       Uzbekistan Drainage, Irrigation and Wetlands Improvement Project (3796 UZ, 4707 UZ)
                             Implementation Progress Review Mission
                                      March 16 – April 5, 2011
                                           Aide-Memoire


A.     INTRODUCTION

1. A mission consisting of IJsbrand H. de Jong (Sr. Water Resources Specialist and TTL), Ahmed
Shawky (Sr. Water Resources and Environmental Specialist), Jeren Kabayeva (Project Operations
Specialist), Dilshod Khidirov (Sr. Rural Development Officer), Fasliddin Rakhimov (Procurement
Specialist), Galina Alagardova (Financial Management Specialist), Oydin Dyusebaeva (Team Assistant)
and Robert Rout (Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Engineer, FAO) convened in Uzbekistan from
March 16 - April 5, 2011. A Social Development Specialist will visit the project later during the fiscal
year.
2. The objective of the mission was to review (i) progress in the implementation of the Drainage,
Irrigation and Wetlands Improvement Project (DIWIP), (ii) project compliance with the Bank’s
safeguard policies, (iii) procurement and financial management arrangements and (iv) arrangements
for monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
3. The mission met with H.E. S. Hamraev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources, and
Mr. B. A. Yusupov, Project Management Unit (PIU) Director of DIWIP and his staff. A list of people met
is presented in Annex A. The mission also conducted field visits in the project area located in
Karakalpakstan. The mission wishes to express its sincere gratitude for the assistance in facilitating the
work of the mission and the hospitality extended.
4.    The findings and recommendations of the mission were discussed in a wrap-up meeting held on
April 5, 2011 that was chaired by H.E. Mr. Hamraev.

B.     SUMMARY

Table 1: Key Project Data
     Board Date             06/19/2003        Current Project Performance Rating
     Effectiveness Date     02/20/2004        Development Objectives       Satisfactory
     Project Duration       10 years          Implementation Progress      Moderately Satisfactory
     Loan Amount            US$35m
     Credit Amount          US$25m
     Percent Disbursed      77%
     Project Closing Date   06/13/2013
5. The project is making good progress in the implementation of inter-farm and on-farm I&D
rehabilitation works, despite delays that were mostly incurred in the past (harsh winter conditions, fuel
shortages). On-going contracts include additional works under MS/1, CAR/1 and D1/2, with scheduled
completion dates of April 2011, July 2011 and June 2012, respectively. Submission and certification of
as-built drawings and O&M manuals for these contracts still need to be completed.
6. Demonstration plots were established on a number of irrigation and agronomic techniques, as
well as a Farmer Information Support Desk (FISD) with preliminary encouraging results. Training of
Water Users’ Associations (WUAs) and water resources staff was completed in 2009 as per the project
design, and all funds have been spent. Regional water management staff and close to 700 farmers have
been trained, and training material has been prepared.
7. Despite the fact that WUA training was completed as planned, the mission is concerned about
their continued weakness. In addition, the mission learned that local authorities have so far expressed
limited interest in taking full advantage of the project’s investments to improve the quality of water
management in the project area. This is likely to negatively impact the sustainability of the
investments. The mission strongly recommends that receipt of a firm expression of commitment by
local authorities and water resources specialists to adhere to rational water management rules is a
prerequisite for any future investment operation in water management. More attention will also need
to be devoted to strengthening capacities of WUAs to ensure full ownership and ability to take
command of on-farm water management. This, in turn, requires direct involvement of local authorities,
water resources specialists and WUAs in the design of such project.
8. The mission visited areas in Karakalpakstan that are part of the proposed South Karakalpakstan
Water Resources Management Improvement Project (SKWRMIP). A Feasibility Study (FS) is almost
completed that forms the basis for the project that is included in the Governments investment plans
and in the current Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy.
9. Compliance with Bank safeguard policies is satisfactory, as is procurement and financial
management.
10. The following agreements were reached:

      The PIU will recruit, at least on a part-time basis, an environmental specialist to monitor
       implementation of the EMP during the construction of additional works.
      The PIU needs to ensure timely completion of all as-built drawings and O&M manuals
       immediately following the works’ completion date.
      Once the FS is completed, preparation of the SKWRMIP will start provided (i) the Bank receives
       a request from the Ministry of Economy; and (ii) there is confirmation of the IDA/IBRD envelope
       of the operation.
      The mission would like to receive clarification on follow-up activities that have been taken in
       respect of the safety of Tuyamuyun dam, as outlined in the Environmental Management Plan
       (EMP). To that effect, the Bank will send an official letter to MoAWR.
      The design of SKWRMIP needs to incorporate important lessons learned from DIWIP, including
       the need to (i) obtain firm expressions of commitment from local authorities to adhere to
       rational water management rules, (ii) ensure full involvement of local authorities and water
       resources staff in the design of the project, (iii) allocate adequate resources to WUA and staff
       training, (iv) ensure compliance with safeguard policies, including Dam Safety (OP4.37).
      A more strategic perspective on water resources development and management in the lower
       parts of the Amu Darya river needs to be adopted. To that end, it was agreed that preparation
       of a comprehensive lower Amu Darya Water Master Plan will be included in SKWRMIP.


                                                  2
        The Bank has received a request for budget re-allocation in the amount of US$218,000 from the
         project’s unallocated category, and will respond shortly.

C.       AGREEMENTS REACHED

Component A: Construction and Rehabilitation of Main Drainage System

11. Progress in the implementation of construction is summarized in Annexes C, G, H and I. The
mission recommends that the PIU ensures timely completion of all as-built drawings and O&M
manuals immediately following the works’ completion date.

Component B: Irrigation and Drainage System Improvement in Command Area

B.l. Water User Association development and TA training,

12. Twenty one WUAs (nine in Beruni and twelve in Turtkul) have been established, and have been
operating for nearly six years. In addition, Water User Groups (WUG) have been established in WUAs
with larger areas and more than 100 members, as well as Associations of WUAs. WUAs in Beruni have
generally been established on the basis of hydraulic boundaries, and those in Turtkul are scheduled to
be reorganized similarly. WUAs and trainers of WUA have been trained and have benefited from
refresher courses on a large number of issues, including O&M, on-farm water management,
accounting, administration and legal issues. Farmer Field Schools have been organized, as well as
Demonstration Plots, and training material was distributed to WUAs and local authorities. The training
program was completed in 2009.
13. Despite intensive training and continuous support from the project, and although there is now a
general recognition in the project area of their importance, WUAs continue to face considerable
challenges. Some of these are not unique to Uzbekistan and are consistent with global WUA
performance. Additional challenges that are related to the specific legal and financial framework in
Uzbekistan include the limited autonomy of WUAs in managing their affairs, financial constraints that
result from the recovery of O&M charges through seasonal credit and from the difficulty of collecting
fees from dekhan farmers, the sometimes limited support from local authorities in face of the need to
achieve cotton and wheat quota, and frequent staff changes in many WUAs.
14. Training of 26 O&M staff from government water management organizations in South
Karakalpakstan was conducted in September 2008 and February 2009 on planning, O&M of irrigation
and drainage infrastructure, and a training manual was prepared. In addition, guidelines for O&M of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure were prepared.
15. However, the mission noted with concern that public agencies responsible for water
management (including Basin Administration of Irrigation Systems (BAIS), Hydro Melioration
Expedition (HME) and Raiselvodkhoz) showed limited interest in training staff or WUAs to improve
water resources management. The same applies to training of staff in the use of water scheduling
software, and the preparation of databases associated with proper I&D. The mission recognizes that
many of these challenges are related to the low salaries and few incentives that staff are provided, as a

                                                    3
result of which there is a high staff turn-over, but neglect of capacity strengthening will inevitably
compromise the sustainability of project investments.
16. All funds allocated to these sub-components have been disbursed, and no additional funds are
likely to become available during the remainder of the project. Capitalizing on this important
experience for the design of SKWRMIP, the mission strongly recommends that firm expressions of
commitment by local authorities and water resources specialists to adhere to rational water
management rules is a key prerequisite. More attention will also need to be devoted to strengthening
capacities of WUAs to ensure full ownership and ability to take command of on-farm water
management. This, in turn, requires direct involvement of local authorities, water resources specialists
and WUAs in the design of such project.

B.2. Irrigation and Drainage Improvement

17. An assessment of activities and results under this sub-component is presented in Annex D.
Encouraging preliminary results have been obtained by the Farmers Information Support Desk (FISD),
responsible for providing advice to farmers, which has so far received 10 requests for support from
farmers during 2010.

B.4. Environmental and Social Safeguards

18. The mission noted that the contract of the environmental specialist that had been employed by
the project has not been extended to cover the additional works. It was agreed that the PIU will
recruit, at least on a part-time basis, an environmental specialist. The M&E consultant will monitor
progress in the implementation of the EMP. The Involuntary Resettlement policy was not triggered
under the project. A social safeguards specialist will visit the project in the course of this fiscal year to
confirm the validity of this.
19. A full assessment of project compliance with safeguards policies is presented in Annex E. The
following agreements were reached:

      Environmental Assessment (OP4.01): for contract D1/2, it was agreed that the PIU will, by June
       30, 2011, train the contractor in EMP to ensure compliance. An environmental specialist will be
       recruited to oversee implementation of the EMP during the remainder of the project.
      Natural Habitats (OP4.04): within the coming 1-2 years measures for stabilizing salts in Lake
       Ayazkala should start. The aim is to prevent the salt from being blown away by wind to avoid
       negative impact on human health in adjacent towns. SKWRMIP should provide an adequate
       amount of water to the Bustan canal for supplying water to the Baday Tugai forest, without any
       competition from irrigators.
      Physical Cultural Property (OP4.11): to further reduce the impact of high groundwater tables in
       the project area on key monuments, SKWRMIP needs to (i) empower WUAs through training
       and technical backstopping by MoAWR staff, (ii) provide irrigation advisory services through
       FISDs, and (iii) remodel inter-farm canals. SKWRMIP also needs to make sure that a minimum
       distance of 150 meters between the introduced I&D works and key monuments is maintained.

                                                       4
      Dam Safety (OP4.37): The mission has not been able to ascertain the nature and scope of works
       that have been undertaken by the Government to improve the safety of Tuyamuyun dam. The
       mission would like to receive clarification on follow-up activities that have been taken in
       response to relevant clauses of the Environmental Assessment (EA) and the Environmental
       Management Plan (EMP). To that effect, the Bank will send an official request to MoAWR.

Component C: M&E of project impact and EMP

20. The consultancy services for M&E and Supervision of EMP were initially provided by Royal
Haskoning from December 2005 until December 2009. After the project’s Closing Date was extended
to June 30, 2013, the PIU signed a contract for the “Follow-up M&E Consultancy Services? with the
consortium of AHT Group AG and Donaev Management Consulting (“Consortium?) on October 25,
2010. The total contract amount is US$599,948.10, and its Closing Date is June 30, 2013. The M&E
Consultant has started its services on January 10, 2011. As a result of the transition between the two
consultants, the M&E Annual Report for 2010 has not been completed. The detailed status of the
project’s indicators is provided in Annex B. The status of indicators is largely based on the M&E annual
report for 2009, with the exception of a few construction-related indicators that have been updated as
of March 2011.
21. Representatives of Royal Haskoning visited Karakalpakstan on March 2, 2011 to carry out the final
workshop to formally hand over the M&E data and reports collected by them over the period of 2006-
2009. By the time of the mission, the Consortium had submitted the Inception Report for review of the
PIU and mission team. For the upcoming quarterly report, the mission recommends that the
Consortium and PIU focus more on the impact that the project makes in respect to (i) contribution to
agricultural GDP from irrigated land; (ii) rural poverty indicators and farmers’ income in
Karakalpakstan, and (iii) technical assistance provided under the project. To ensure the sustainability of
activities under the M&E Component, it is expected that the Consortium will be closely working with
Raiselvodkhoz, HME, PAM and the Archeological Institute to gradually hand over responsibility to these
organizations for the maintenance of the project’s M&E database.

Component D: Project Management, Technical Assistance and Training

D.l. Project Implementation Unit

Procurement
22. At the current stage of the project implementation little procurement work is envisaged. The PIU
is mostly managing amendments to the existing contracts and extensions of contract duration to cover
additional works. Contract implementation progress is reflected in Annex G. There are no post review
contracts since the last mission. Procurement performance of the project is rated satisfactory.

Financial Management

23. The contribution from the Financial Management Specialist is presented in Annex K.


                                                    5
D.2. TA for Detailed Design and Construction Supervision

24. Technical assistance services for detailed design and construction supervision is provided under
Con/1. These services include design of sample structures (approximately 25%), review of contractor’s
working- and “as built?-drawings, construction supervision inspections and certifications, and technical
support to the PIU.

D.3. Studies and Training

25. As part of contract Con/1, studies were conducted on Amu Darya basin hydrology and
management, and on modern irrigation tools. Training in O&M techniques was also conducted.
Reports were prepared. This activity has been completed and funds have been fully spent.

D.4. Preparation of Future Projects in Water and Irrigation and Drainage.

26. An FS for a future investment operation is underway and is expected to be completed soon. The
mission visited areas in Karakalpakstan that are identified in the FS to be part of this future operation.
Four options have been identified to improve water management that aim to replace pump irrigation
by gravity irrigation. In addition, in response to a bilateral agreement between Turkmenistan and
Uzbekistan, the project would re-route saline drainage flows away from the Amu Darya to improve
water quality. Expected benefits include increased production from rehabilitated, previously
abandoned land in downstream areas and from vertical intensification on rehabilitated and existing
land, as well as reduced costs of pumping. Production of a second non-cotton/non-wheat crop after
the wheat harvest will become possible in parts of the command area.
27. The mission prepared a preliminary water balance of the before- and after-project situation (see
Annex K). A more detailed monthly balance will need to be prepared to fully assess impacts of the
project on water resources. While adequate water resources appear to be available in Tuyamuyun
reservoir, satisfying the increased demand from the anticipated horizontal and vertical intensification
as a result of the project (minus the reduced leaching requirement because of improved water quality)
will require that due attention is being paid to continue satisfying downstream demands and
environmental maintenance flows.
28. The mission noted that the estimated costs of each of the proposed options are between
US$120m and US$194m. The project is included in the Government’s priority investment plan, albeit
for a smaller IDA amount, as well as in the current Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy. Costs are in
particular associated with an extension of 70kms of the Bustan canal that are estimated at US$100m.
Since currently abandoned irrigated areas are located at the end of this canal, its development
represents a significant up-front requirement before benefits can be captured. A preliminary
assessment of safeguard policies that will be triggered by the new project is presented in Annex J. It
was agreed that, following completion of the FS, preparation of SKWRMIP can start provided that (i)
the Bank receives a request for support for the preparation and implementation of the project from
the Ministry of Economy; and (ii) the IDA/IBRD envelope for the operation is clarified.
29. While the mission recognizes the important benefits that the proposed project would bring, it
also recommends adopting a more strategic perspective on water resources development and

                                                     6
management in the lower parts of the Amu Darya river. It was therefore agreed that preparation of a
comprehensive lower Amu Darya Water Master Plan would be included in the design of SKWRMIP.

D.     NEXT STEPS
Table 2: Summary of Agreed Actions
    Action                                                              Responsible       Deadline
                      Component A: Construction and Rehabilitation of Main Drainage System
    1     Contract MS/1 completion of all outstanding works,            PIU               May 31, 2011
          approval of as-built drawings and O&M Manual
                   Component B: Irrigation and Drainage System Improvement in Command Area
    2     Inclusion of recommendations of B.4 in EMP                    PIU               May 31, 2011
    3     Recruitment of an environmental specialist                    PIU               April 30, 2011
    4     Water supply to Baday Tugai forest guaranteed                 PIU               continuous
    5     Contractor of contract D1/2 trained on EMP                    PIU               June 30, 2011
    6     Assess net effect on fisheries, livestock, flora and fauna    M&E Consultant    As soon as D1/2 is
                                                                                          completed
    7     Design and implement measures for stabilizing salts in Lake PIU                 As soon as possible
          Ayazkala
    8     Clarifications regarding Tuyamuyun dam safety                 PIU               May 31, 2011
    9     Contract CAR/1/11: rectification of non-compliance and        Consultant        May 31, 2011
          under excavation works; approval of as-built drawings
    10    Contract CAR/1/22: submission of revised works program        Consultant        April 30, 2011
          for concrete works
                                      Component C: M&E of project impact and EMP
    11    PIU to focus more on M&E of project impacts                   PIU               Q2, 2011 Report
                       Component D: Project Management, Technical Assistance and Training
    12    Reflect lessons from DIWIP in the design of SKWRMIP,          MoAWR             During project
          including recommendations from section B.1, B.4, and D.4                        preparation
    13    Clarify IDA/IBRD envelope of SKWRMIP                          WB/MoE            May 31, 2011
    14    Request for Bank support for SKWRMIP                          MoE               2011
    15    Revise Financial Management Manual to incorporate             CA and F/DS       June 30, 2011
          sections related to:
          a) Financial reporting and auditing arrangements; and
          b) Update sections related to accounting and internal
              control policies and procedures (including setting limits
              for volume of monthly cash operations)
    16    Finalize modification of the current accounting software      PIU, C A and F/DS June 30, 2011
    17    Timely submission of audit report for FY 2010                 PIU, CA and F/DS Immediately and
                                                                                          continuously
    18    implement last mission recommendations in regard to KSDP PIU Director, CA       June 30, 2011


30. The next implementation progress review mission is proposed to take place on October 2 -22,
2011.
1
    CAR/1/1 = CAR/1 Additional Assignment No. 1
2
    CAR/1/2 = CAR/1 Additional Assignment No. 2

                                                         7
                                                                           Annex A

                               List of people met

1.  Shavkat Hamraev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources
2.  Asatilla Salimov, Deputy Minister of Economy
3.  Bakhtiyar Yusupov, Technical Director, PIU on Water Projects, MAWR
4.  Bakhadir Yusupov, Project Manager, Ferghana Valley Water Resources Management
    Project, Phase-1
5. Satimbay Yuldashev, Head of PIU on Silk project, Nukus
6. Kilichbek Sitniyazov, Chief Accountant, Silk PIU
7. Gulnara Embergenova, Director, NGO “Zolotoe Naslediye Arala?
8. Maryam Kurshaeva, Head of RC in Tortkul district Karakalpakstan
9. Khaitjan Yuldashev, Head of RC in Khojeili district, Karakalpakstan
10. SalavatJarkinbaev, Chief Accountant, Bustan OTP, Karakalpakstan
11. Atakhan Saburov, Farmer, Nursery garden of mulberry trees, Ellikkala district
12. Palwan Kulumbetov, Deputy Director of PIU, Beruni district
13. Reyimbay Kuranbaev, Agricultural specialist, PIU, Beruni district
14. Dinesh Kumar Shrestha, Consultant, Resident Engineer, Mott MacDonald/Temelsu
15. Bahadir Boz, Consultant, Mott MacDonald/Temelsu
16. Robert Davey, Consultant, WUA, Water Management, Agriculture & Institutional
    Development Coordinator, Mott MacDonald/Temelsu
17. Stefan Rosenow, M&E Consultant, Agro-Economist Project Management, AHT Group AG
18. Bahadir Alimov, Concortsium Manager, OAO “Amubukharakanalkurilish?
19. Shahobiddin Bahronov, Concortsium Manager, OAO “Amubukharakanalkurilish?
20. Oblakul Akbarov, Concortsium Manager, OOO “TupalangduvGESkurilish?
21. Merom Kutlimuratov, Chairman, “Shabbaz? rural community
22. Zaripbay Jumatov, Manager, WUA “Shabbaz?
23. Erkabay Masharapov, Hydrotechnic specialist, WUA “Shabbaz?
24. Bahrom Jabbarov, Specialist, Mott MacDonald/Temelsu
25. Murat Kurbanov, Inspector, “Baday Tugai? State Nature Reserve
26. M. Narbaev, I&D Engineer, PIU
27. M. Utemuradov, Procurement Specialist, PIU
28. V. Sablina, Financial Specialist, PIU
29. I. Zuberova, Accountant, PIU
30. A. Ganiev, Deputy Manager, PIU
31. M. Astankulov, Civil works Engineer, PIU
32. K. Urinbaev, Monitoring Engineer, PIU
33. A. Alimov, Office Manager, PIU
34. M. Supiev, Sociologist, PIU
35. Shuhrat Ganiev, First Deputy Khokim, Ferghana region
36. A. Rahmatullaev, Head of BAIS “Syrdarya-Soh?
37. P. Rasulov, First Deputy Head of BAIS “Syrdarya-Soh?
38. R. Yakubov, Headof department on PS, Energy and communication

                                       1
39. Yu. Ahrarov, Head of administration of irrigation systems (AIS) “Isfayram-Shahimardan?
40. N. Masharapov, Head of land cadastre department
41. J. Saymatov, Head of division on water use
42. M. Zailapov, Head of division, PTO
43. Bohodir Yusupov, Khokim of Namangan region
44. B. Ohunov, Head of BAIS “Norin-Syrdarya? “Podshoota-Shodak?
45. B. Khoshimov, First Deputy head of BAIS “Norin-Syrdarya?
46. B. Abzalov, Headof department on PS, Energy and Communication
47. A. Boyhanov, Khokim of Chartak district
48. I. Imanov, administration of irrigation systems (AIS) “Podshoota-Shodak?
49. N. Hudoyberdiev, Head of division on PTO, administration of irrigation systems (AIS)
    “Podshoota-Shodak?
50. Ulugbek Rakhimov, Deputy of Khokim of Andijan region on agricultural issues
51. A. Abdullaev, Head of BAIS “Norin-Koradarya?
52. Sh. Ergashev, First Deputy head of BAIS “Norin-Koradarya?
53. M. Ismailov, Head of department on PS, Energy and Communication
54. A. Bahramov, Head of administration of irrigation systems (AIS) “Savay-Akbursay?
55. U. Yokubov, Head of administration of irrigation systems (AIS) “Shahrihonsay?
56. B. Boltoboev, Head of administration of irrigation systems (AIS) “Ulugnor-Mazgilsay?
57. R. Ermatov, Head of division on water use
58. Kh. Uraimov, Head of PTO, administration of irrigation systems
59. G. Abdullaev, Lead specialist, administration of irrigation systems
60. Begdulla Davletiyarov (M&E Environmental Specialist)
61. Bakhadir Kamalov Office Manager, JV Mott MacDonald – Temelsu
62. Plamen Bozakov, Deputy Country Director, ADB
63. Ramil Maharramov, Country Manager, IDB
64. Davron Madirimov, Field Representative in Uzbekistan, IDB
65. Maor Zrahyahu, First Secretary and Consul, Embassy of Israel
66. Murat Mirzaev, Deputy Head, SECO




                                           2
                                                                                                                 Annex B

                              Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators

Hierarchy of Objectives     Key Performance Indicators           Status as of end of 2009 (updated data for March
                                                                 2011 provided for selected indicators when available)
Sector Related CAS          Sector Indicators
Goals

Maintain and improve        Contribution to agricultural         Data collection in process
the efficiency of the       GDP from irrigated lands.
country’s extensive
irrigation and drainage
infrastructure.

Remove distortions and      The extent of irrigated areas        Data collection in process
create incentives for       and increased farm
increasing farm             productivity.
productivity to address     Rural poverty indicators
and reduce the rural        particularly in Karakalpakstan.
poverty.
Project Development         Outcome /Impact Indicators
Objective

1. To increase the          1. Sustained crop production         1. Increase in cropped area:
productivity of irrigated   in South Karakalpakstan on           Baseline 2006: 65,000 ha
agriculture,                about 115,000 ha in Beruni           Actual 2009: 83,000 ha (+23%)
employment and              and Turtkul Tumans on about          Estimated target: 115,000 ha
incomes in                  65,000 ha of irrigated lands
Karakalpakstan, one of      yield increases of 10 – 20% by       Yield increase:
the poorest regions in      Yr 7 and, in conjunction with        Baseline 2006:Cotton – 1.69 t/ha; Wheat – 1.86 t/ha
Central Asia                the RESP, provision for main         Actual 2009: Cotton – 1.3 t/ha; Wheat – 1.4 t/ha
                            system irrigation and drainage       Estimated target: +10-20% of baseline
                            improvements in Ellikala             Employment and Income: in process
                            Tuman for another 34,000 ha,
                            resulting in similar yield
                            increases.

2. To improve water         2.1. Reduction in salinity of        2.1. 0.8 g/l (September 2009)
quality of the Amu          Amu Darya water by about             Note: this is due to (i) the diversion of drainage water
Darya river by safe         0.05g/l, resulting in yield          followed by the closing of Beruni pump station in
disposal of the drainage    increases in the order of 1% in      September 2008; and (ii) the increased flow of Amu
effluent, and enhance       the irrigated area                   Darya in 2009.
quality of wetlands in      downstream of Takhiatash
the Amu Darya delta.        barrage.

                            2.2. Enhanced quality of             2.2. As of March 2011: Badai Tagai Reserve: a new
                            wetlands e.g. the Badai Tagai        distribution canal 100% complete. But the canal hardly
                            (riverine forest); the managed       received water to date due to designed and supplied
                                                                                 3
                            wetlands in the SKMC and             water of 5 m /s being used by the 32 outlets in
                            AMD.                                 upstream Saukum Yargan Canal (Budeniy canal) for
                                                                 irrigation purposes.

                                                             3
                                                                   3.1. Insignificant
                                                                   Note: no information from the previous M&E consultant
                                                                   on WUA


3. To develop the          3.1. Reliability: ratio of actual
institutions for           water supplied to demand                3.2.
improving water            planned for delivery on
management,                weekly, monthly and annual              Conveyance up to WUA: (0.95)
operation and              basis
maintenance (O&M) of                                               Distribution within WUA area (inter-farm): (0.89)
the irrigation and         3.2. Irrigation efficiencies            Amt of drainage water from irrigated land: Insignificant
drainage systems, and      increased:
for promoting              Conveyance up to area of
sustainable irrigated      WUA by 10%
agriculture through        Within WUA area by 15%                  3.3. 21 WUAs established (Beruni=9; Turtkul=12)
participatory irrigation   Amount of drainage water                Effectiveness of WUAs varies. WUAs participated
management.                reduced to not more than                effectively in the command area rehabilitation (CAR)
                           3,000 m3/ha                             and MS-1 design. Land consolidation, which began in
                                                                   December 2008 has improved the functioning of these
                           3.3. Sustainability: Number of          WUAs in terms of the O&M.
                           effective WUAs, level of
                           participation in WUAs,
                           functioning of WUAs in water
                           distribution, dispute
                           resolution and in O&M of the
                           system, O&M budget, % of
                           area waterlogged, % of
                           moderate to highly saline soils
Output from each           Output indicators
component

1.1. SKMD including        1.1. 15% completed by Yr2,              1.1. Construction of SKMC and AMD: 100% complete
SKMC and AMD               65% by Yr3, 100% by Yr 4
constructed

1.2. Selective             1.2. 20% completed by Yr 2,             1.2 As of March 2011: 93% earthworks; 97% concrete
rehabilitation of          70% by Yr 3 and 100 % by Yr 4           works; 97% land leveling; 99% deep ripping completed.
collector drains carried
out.

2.1.1. WUAs                2.1.1. WUAs established for             2.1.1. 21 WUAs established in Beruni and Turtkul
established in the         first 3,000 ha in the Beruni            Tumans. Beruni WUAs have a total of 32,170 ha of
Beruni and Turtkul         and Turkul Tumans by Yr 1;              command area and the WUAs of Turtkul have a total
Tumans;                    WUAs established for 18,000             of 31,388 ha of command area.
                           ha by Yr 2, 30,000 ha by Yr 3,
                           50,000 ha by Yr 4 and 60,000
                           ha by Yr 5.

2.1.2 Training for         2.1.2 Training schedule in              2.1.2. Training related to collector and drain remodeling
improving I&D within       conjunction with construction           and deep ripping to remove plough pan and improve soil


                                                               4
the WUAs carried out    of improvement works (see            permeability had positive impacts on yields and farmers
                        2.2)                                 have entered into fee-based contracts with FISC to have
                                                             similar services available on regular basis.

                        2.1.3. Demonstrations on 12          2.1.3. 15 demonstration plots (Beruni=7, Turtkul=8)
                        agriculture demonstration            established with successful demonstration of cotton
                        plots conducted during period        yield more than 3.5 t/ha and wheat more than 4t/ha.
                        Yr 3-6; Farmers Info Desk            Farmer Field School (FFS) established and currently
                        operational from Yr 3                functioning; no details available on impact of this FFS.
                                                             Farmers’ Information Support Center/Desk (FISC)
                                                             established as NGO and functioning in Beruni and
                                                             Turtkul; 14,000 booklets, 860 bulletins and 100 posters
                                                             issued and distributed. 691 farmers trained, and 200
                                                             farmers participated in various seminars (no details on
                                                             impact available). Sustainability of FISC is of concern due
                                                             to limited financial resources to maintain staff, office and
                                                             transport.

                        2.2. Works completed on              2.2. As of March 2011: 114% earthworks; 125% concrete
                        5,000 ha by Yr 3, 18,000 ha by       works completed.
                        Yr 4, 38,000 ha by Yr 5, and         Note: exceeding of the target was possible when project
                        65,000 ha by Yr 6.                   resources were added for this activity following the
                                                             extension of the project and re-allocation of project
                                                             proceeds in 2010.

                        2.3 Works completed for 20%          2.3. As of March 2011: Preparatory works started in
2.1.3 Agriculture       by Yr 3, 70% by Yr 4 and 100%        January 2011 with a completion date of May 2012.
demonstrations          by Yr 5
performed; and
Farmers’ Information
Services Desk
established.            2.4.1 Badai Tugai (riverine          2.4.1. As of September 2010: 100% works completed.
                        forest) works completed by           Impact: by September 2010, 3103 ha were saturated and
                        Yr.3;                                almost the whole remaining territory of Baday-Tugai
                                                             reserve was wetted; 2500 ha of natural Tugai vegetation
                                                             reappeared.

                        2.4.2 Lake Ayazkala mitigation       2.4.2. Kyzylkum Pumping Station closed on March 2008;
                        works for closure started Yr3        EMP measures (salt-blowing control) not yet
                        and completed by Yr5                 implemented; Natural growth of tamarisk (Tamarix
                                                             hispida) observed.
2.2 Selective I&D
improvements in the     2.4.3. Monitoring of                 2.4.3. As of March 2011: Still continuing, groundwater
WUA areas carried out   groundwater near castles             level lowered to satisfactory level north of SKMD, in
                        started Yr1 and is continuing        irrigated area not much lowering observed; Kyzyl Kala
                                                             monument negatively affected by spoil banks.
                                                             Otvodyashi collector flows near the monument (about
                                                             100m away) and meets with the SKMC (near 200m). In
2.3 Selective                                                junction point of Otvodyashi and SKMC, a junction
improvements in main                                         structure has been constructed and banks are stabilized
and secondary                                                to prevent from bank erosion. The bank of collector
irrigation system                                            close to monument site was at vulnerable stage
carried out                                                  breaching at high discharge coming from Akchakul lake,

                                                         5
                                                           K-9 and K-6-1 collectors. It was necessary to protect the
                                                           monument and thus left bank was stabilized with flatter
                                                           slope and the spoils were accordingly leveled and placed
                                                           as per the contract specification. At site the leveled spoil
                                                           is located on the back side of the entrance to the Kyzyl
                                                           Kala monument. Because of the location of collector,
                                                           nothing special can be done considering the site
                                                           condition.

2.4 Works stipulated in   2.4.4. AMD mitigation works      2.4.4. As of March 2011: 100% complete - 11 bridges for
EMP carried out           (protection of range lands and   herders completed; erosion protection measures along
                          crossings) completed by Yr5      AMD implemented but not satisfactory; breaches are
                                                           recorded (eg.: N 42° 38’ 27.7?; E061° 33’16.2?). Breaches
                                                           have happened due to embankment being overtopped
                                                           due to uncontrolled high discharge exceeding design
                                                                             3                           3
                                                           discharge of 25m /s (recorded up to 37m /s). It has
                                                           happened couple of times and they have been repaired.
                                                           In current situation, there is no breached section in
                                                           AMD.


3. M&E carried out        3. PIU staff trained; M&E        3. M&E annual report available for 2009, but not for
effectively with useful   reports prepared                 2010 due to arrangements that had to be put in place to
feed-back for project                                      recruit a new M&E Consulting Company after the project
design, implementation                                     was extended from June 30, 2010 till June 30, 2013.
and O&M provided

4. Improved capacity of   4. MAWR staff trained in         4. Training of MAWR staff completed in 2008; total of 26
MAWR and                  establishing WUAs; assisting     people trained. A Training Manual was prepared
Karalpakstan to           WUAs with implementation of      covering all issues related to Irrigation System
establish WUAs; plan      I&D rehabilitation; irrigation   Administration, Hydro-Meliorative Expedition and
and design projects,      scheduling techniques; and       raiselvodkhoz water management activities. The
undertake                 O&M planning                     following training modules were delivered:
procurement, and                                           - Water management in practice;
implement, operate                                         - Technical aspects of operating I&D systems;
and maintain I&D                                           - Flow measurement in canals and collectors;
projects.                                                  - Monitoring of the meliorative condition of irrigated
                                                           lands
                                                           The impact of this activity has been weak as there has
                                                           been strong resistance to training the staff who plan,
                                                           operate and maintain I&D systems and government
                                                           water management organizations have not been
                                                           interested in improving water management. In addition,
                                                           there have been several incidents of damage to project
                                                           construction works by excessive and uncontrolled I&D
                                                           flows.




                                                       6
                                                                                                         Annex C



                        Progress in Implementation of Construction Activities

A.I. Construction and rehabilitation of the South Karakalpakstan Main Drainage Canal

1.       The subcomponent works contract (SKMD/13) started in September 2005 and with an
extension of 95 days and delays of a year in the works program was completed in December
20104. Works completed under the contract included the rehabilitation of the Karakalpakstan
Main Drain (SKMD), construction of the Akchadarya Main Drain (AMD) and construction of 125
structures associated with the drains including bridges (11), aqueducts (7), conjugation
structures (31) and cross regulators (9). Annex E lists a summary of dates, quantities and cost
for all works contracts.
2.      Subsequent to the completion of the SKMD/1 contract, additional new and remedial
works were identified on the AMD to increase capacity in the drain reach upstream of the
original works. The contract commenced in January 2011 and is currently on-going with
approximately 21% of the earthworks completed as of February 2011.

A.2. Rehabilitation of inter-farm collector drains and irrigation infrastructure.

3.     The works contract (MS/1) started in September 2006 and with contract duration of 36
months and later extension of 263 days the scheduled completion date was 12 June 2010. The
contractor failed to achieve the scheduled completion date and completion is still pending. The
reasons for the delay included shortage of fuel supplies and adverse winter weather
conditions5.
4.     The works main elements include inter-farm collector drains (250 km), irrigation
structures (25 nos.), land leveling (4,250 ha) and deep ripping (1,500 ha). While the works are
substantially complete, the remaining works6 include approximately 175,000 m3 in earthworks,
135 m3 in concrete works, and small areas of deep ripping and land leveling7. The outstanding
earthworks and concrete works are approximately 7% and 3% of the contract quantities. In
addition to outstanding works the contractor is to submit certified as-built drawings and
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manuals for the collector drains and irrigation structures.



3
  For the purposes of this Aide Memoire the project abbreviation DIWIP is dropped as prefix to contract nos.
4
  Quarterly Progress Report, October to December 2010, February 2011.
5
  Monthly Construction Progress Report, February 2011
6
  As confirmed by the PIU at the Meeting of March 23, 2011
7
  Less than 3% of contract areas

                                                        7
5.    The Contractor’s revised work program indicated that works and submissions will be
completed by the 30th April 2011.Work is currently on-going and it appears that all works and
submissions will be completed within the revised program timeframe8.

B.3. Rehabilitation of major structures and canals

6.       The subcomponent includes two works contracts (CAR/1 and D1/2) for rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure within Turtkul and Beruni districts. The D1/2 contract is
additional works, funded from cost savings on earlier contracts.
7.     The CAR/1 contract start date was 13 June 2007 and with contract duration of 24
months to which there have been two time extensions of 365 days (Additional Agreement No.
1) and 397 days (Additional Agreement No. 2). The scheduled completion date is 14 July 2011.
8.      The works under CAR/1 Additional Agreement No. 1 were completed in December
      9
2010 , however there remain several outstanding issues including rectification of non-
compliances and under-excavation works on structures and collectors, and correction of as-
built drawings.
9.      In September 2010 the contractor commenced work on CAR/1 Additional Agreement
No. 2. Scheduled works include rehabilitation of 429 km of farm collectors, and construction of
drainage (40 new and 51 rehabilitated) and irrigation (5 new and 21 rehabilitated) structures.
As of February 2011, completion of physical works was approximately 22% and 8% of farm
collectors and structures respectively10. For collectors actual works were slightly lower than
planned and for concrete actual works was 50% of planned. To achieve the scheduled
completion date the contractor needs to increase resources, equipment and manpower and
submit a revised work program.
10.     The D1/2 contract start date was 6 January 2011. With a duration of 17 months, the
completion date is 6 June 2012. The works include rehabilitation of 540 km on farm collectors,
repair and construction of drainage structures (70 pipe culverts, 52 pipes under canals and 51
junction structures), repair and construction of irrigation canal structures (3 cross regulators, 4
box culverts, 24 outlets and 3 pipe culverts) and construction of 279 new observation wells.
11.     As of March 2011 works had started on farm collectors with approximately 1% of the
earthworks completed and with construction works yet to start on structures and observation
wells. The works also included remedial earthworks for the AMD (as discussed in Section A1)11.




8
  Personnel communication with the Consultant March 26, 2011
9
  Executive Summary of Progress Report, March 2011, Draft, Mott MacDonald - Temelsu
10
   Monthly Construction Progress Report, February 2011, Mott MacDonald - Temelsu
11
   As per communications with Mott MacDonald-Temelsu April 1, 2011

                                                     8
                                                                                              Annex D



                   Sub-component B.2: Irrigation and Drainage Improvement



Demonstration Plots
1.       During 2005-2009, a total 15 demonstration plots (DP) were established in Beruni and
Turtkul districts. To date a total of 100 farmers have received hands-on training on the DPs, and
visits for about 100 farmers to the DPs were organized. The following activities were
demonstrated: (i) laser land leveling, (ii) deep ripping to a depth 60 cm, (iii) water
measurement, (iv) installation of piezometers for monitoring ground water mineralization and
level, (v) application of organic fertilizer, (vi) irrigation application at exact norms on the basis of
crop water requirements, and (vii) timely execution of surveys for weeds, pests and control
measures by biological methods. As a result of this, wheat, cotton and vegetable yields on DPs
increased by 30%, and the plots were thus successful in demonstrating that substantial
increases in yields can be obtained in lower potential soil.
Farmers Information Support Desk (FISD)
2.      A combination of theoretical (in class) and practical training was provided through
Farmers Field Schools (FFS). The training was carried out at least twice a year, once at the
beginning of June after the winter wheat harvest and later in autumn after completion of the
cotton harvest. FISDs provided advice and assistance to 338 farmers. This activity is ongoing
and will continue until project completion. Training modules under this task include study of
soil property, agricultural mechanization, crop production, plant protection, water and soil
monitoring, operation of on-farm irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and social and legal
aspects of farming.
Development of Training Material
3.      Training booklets and bulletins were prepared on 39 different subjects. More than
14,000 booklets and 860 bulletins have been distributed through FFS and via local Mayor
Offices to farmers of Beruni, Turtkul and Ellikkala districts. More than 100 posters have been
distributed for training purposes.




                                                   9
                                                                                        Annex E



                         Project compliance with safeguards policies

Environmental Assessment (OP4.01)

   1. The mission noted that contractors have not been adequately trained in the
      implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). For contract D1/2, it
      was agreed that the PIU will, by June 30, 2011, train the contractor in EMP to ensure
      compliance. A key target indicator is to minimize complaints from inhabitants in the
      project area.

Natural Habitats (OP4.04)

   2. Regarding livestock, thirteen new livestock routes are constructed to compensate for
      the routes that were demolished as they interfered with DIWIP layouts. Livestock can be
      subject to vector-borne diseases due to irrigation expansion and newly inundated
      wetlands, as well as desertification caused by drying some of the existing wetlands.
   3. Regarding Lake Ayazkala, the western lake is fully salted and the eastern lake is partially
      salted due to reduced drainage flows. The PIU informed the Bank of the governmen t’s
      intention to close the lake (as required per the EMP/ISDS). It is not economically feasible
      to flush the salts in the eastern lake as envisaged by the EMP and ISDS. Within the
      coming 1-2 years, when salt is mixed with the blown sand, soil below the salt layer will
      lose its moisture, and the top soil will harden; only then should measures for stabilizing
      the salts start. The aim is to prevent the salt from being blown away by wind to avoid
      negative impact on human health in adjacent towns.
   4. To compensate for the loss of Lake Ayazkala and the other small wetlands that dried up,
      constructing the SKMD and AMD enabled creating new small adjacent wetlands (Ozarni
      wetland and two others), and also increased the drainage outflow to Lake Akchakul
      (used for boat recreation and fisheries). The M&E task will assess the net effect on
      fisheries, flora and fauna. Water supply to Baday Tugai forest was intended from
      Budeniey canal (instead of the drainage pumping station that closed due to DIWIP).
      However, while digging Budeniey canal farmers requested adding irrigation offtakes for
      their farms; hence water was inadequate for the forest. Thus the project built Kok-Darya
      canal, with another canal extension and flow regulators, to supplement water supply to
      the forest. As the Kok-Darya canal is dependent on the flow in the lower Amu Darya
      (which is often low), it is recommended under SKWRMIP to provide an adequate
      amount of water to the Bustan-canal for supplying water to the forest, without any
      competition from irrigators.



                                              10
Physical Cultural Property (OP4.11)

   5. The groundwater table in areas adjacent to SKMD and close to adjacent monuments has
      improved, but in some irrigated areas, despite introducing the SKMD and AMD, water
      tables continue to be relatively high because farmers continue to over-irrigate. This
      issue, under the SKWRMIP, warrants: (i) creating more WUAs and empowering them
      through training and phase-out technical backstopping by MoAWR staff, (ii) irrigation
      advisory services, and (iii) remodeling many inter-farm canals.
   6. The SKMD bank spoils had negatively blocked the visibility of the Kyzyl-Kala monument,
      but now these spoils have been removed. In SKWRMIP there needs to be a minimum
      distance of 150 meters between the introduced I&D works and key monuments.

Dam Safety (OP4.37)

   1. For Tuyamuyun reservoir and dam system, the EMP had recommended undertaking: (i)
      an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP); (ii) upgrade of hydro-mechanical equipment
      and dam-operation instrumentations; (iii) implementation of civil works for safety of
      Sultansanldjar Dam; and (iv) update of the reservoir-scheme O&M manual. Of these,
      DIWIP was expected to implement, if needed, only the most priority activities at around
      US$1m; whereas an estimated $11 million of the other proposed activities would be
      funded by GOU parallel financing and by the “Water Supply Sanitation and Health
      Project (Ln 4216-UZ)?. Thus far DIWIP has conducted a flood management study in
      relation to the EPP. The mission has not been able to ascertain the nature and scope of
      works that have been undertaken by the Government. The mission would like to receive
      clarification on follow-up activities that have been taken in response to relevant clauses
      of the Environmental Assessment (EA) and the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
      To that effect, the Bank will send an official request to MoAWR.
   2. Implementation of some of these proposed activities has been constrained by the fact
      that Turkmenistan shares the reservoir/dam with Uzbekistan. During the preparation of
      SKWRMIP, clear actions that recognize the transboundary nature of the dam will need
      to be identified to ensure compliance with OP4.37.




                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Annex G


                                                                                    Overall Summary of Contracts(1)
                                                                                                           Contract value                                      %        Amount             Cost         Financial
                                                 Original       Time        % agreed                       (million UZS)                       Value of     contract     of cost       escalation as   progress as
 Contract
                                                 contract     extension     contract                                                            works        value     escalation      % of value of       per
    Nr                Contract name               period       granted       period                                                           complete     complete paid to              complete      Contractor’s
                                                                                                                             Estimated                             (3)
                                                  (days)        (days)      elapsed      At signature         Current                  (2)     to date     to date        date             works        program
                                                                                                                            total cost
                                                                                                                                                                                       (cumulative)
SKMD/1*        South Karakalpakstan Main
                                                   1,095          95          100%        35,954.199        34,748.976      34,748.976        28,418.230      79%       6,330.746           23%             100%
               Drain
MS/1**         Inter-farm Irrigation and                                                             (1)
                                                   1,095         263          113%       6,134.812           6,647.822       6,986.522       3,841.226        63%       2,797.767           73%             83%
               Drainage Improvements
CAR/1***       Command Area
               Rehabilitation
               For Additional Agreement                                                              (1)                                      6,258.851
                                                    730          365          116%       6,735.670           9,376.033       9,674.184                        93%       3,273.654           52%             100%
               No.1
                                                    304          397          54%         6,532.414          6,532.414       6,532.414       709.862          11%        626.279            88%             88%
               For Additional Agreement
               No.2
DIWIP/DI/2     Drainage and Irrigation              517           25           5%         13,703,655        13,703,654                       408.380           3%            -                -             92%
               Rehabilitation
   * The Contract is completed with the issue of final completion certificate.
   **DIWIP/MS/1 Additional Agreement No.1 with revised Contract Price. Extended Contract period for completion of construction work has finished.
   ***The statement at completion for Additional Agreement No.1 to original Contract has been issued. The works under Additional Agreement No.1 is now under defect liability period starting from 1
   December 2010 to 1 December 2011. Additional Agreement No.2 signed on 24 August is scheduled to complete by July 2011.
   (1)Original Contract Price at signature, which has been revised to cover the price adjustment as per the clause 47 of Contract with granted time extension.
   (2) Approximate estimate, reviewed each quarter, it includes the general items for provision of Engineer’s Requıirements and Demobilization in the Defects Liability Period.
   (3) This percentage gives the relative proportion of certified amount to original Contract Price.




                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                         Annex H

Summary of Contract Periods
  Date / Duration                                                          Contract No.
                                               SKMD/1                 MS/1            CAR./1               D1/2
  Start Date                                  26-Sep-05             23-Sep-06        13-Jun-07           06-Jan-11
  Duration (months)                               36                    36               24                  17
  Original Completion Date                    26-Sep-08             23-Sep-09        13-Jun-09           06-Jun-11
                                                                                           (1)
  Extensions (days)                               95                   263             365                    0
                                                                                           (2)
                                                                                       397
  Extended Completion Date                    31-Dec-08             12-Jun-10        14-Jul-11           06-Jun-12
                                                                                             (3)
  Completion Certificate Issued               26-Dec-10                              Dec-10
(1) Additional Agreement No.1
(2) Additional Agreement No. 2
(3) Additional Agreement No. 1


Summary of Contract Costs
           Contract Prices and Values
                                                                              Contracts (UZS million)

                                                                SKMD/1     MS/1        CAR./1       D1/2         Total
                           (1)
  Initial contract price                                         35,954      6,135        6,736     13,704      62,528
                                  (2)
  Variation Orders issued                                          159       5,758          221            0      6,138
                                                    (3)
  Other agreed changes in contract value                          6,331      2,798        9,806            0    18,935
                                 (4)
  Current contract price                                         34,749      6,648      15,908      13,704      71,009
                                              (5)
  Estimated total cost of the contract                           34,749      7,090      16,207      13,704      71,749
                                        (6)
  Value of work paid to date                                     34,749      6,639      10,869           408    52,665

  % of value of work paid to date                                  100           94          67            3         73
                                                          (7)
  Value of work done to date at tender price                     28,418      3,841        6,969          408    39,637
                                 (8)
  Value certified to date                                        34,749      6,618      11,418          2,382   55,167
                                                                                              (9)
  % of value of work certified to date                             100           93        70             17         77
(1)
    Including 10% Provisional Sum for Varied Work and Price Adjustment
(2)
    Approved by PIU
(3)
    Price Adjustment as per Clause 47 of Condition of Contract.
 (4)
     Equal to Initial Contract Price unless and until the sum of Variation Orders and other agreed changes exceeds the Provisional
Sum for Varied Work and Price Adjustment
(5)
    Whilst the effect of any possible claims or additional works on the total Contract price can not be precisely defined, this
amount indicates the approximate value at the end of the Contract as currently predicted.
(6)
    Excludes Advance Payment
(7)
    Excludes Advance Payment, Materials on Site and before deduction for retention and repayment of advance. Also excludes
Price Adjustment.
 (8)
     Includes Advance Payment, Materials on Site and Price Adjustment
(9)
    For total contract i.e. Additional Agreements Nos. 1 and 2



                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                Annex I

Summary of Works by Quantity
                                                           (1)                 (2)
 Contract   Main Works              Units   Original BOQ         Revised BOQ         Completed     % Completed   % Revised vs
                                                                                             (3)
                                                                                        BOQ                        Original
 SKMD/1     Earthworks
                                        3
              Baday Tugay             m         1,670,000            1,720,742        1,720,742       100            103
                                        3
              Ayazkala                m           190,000              70,406            70,406       100            37
                                        3
              SKMC                    m        19,500,000          15,905,058        15,905,058       100            82
                                        3
              AMD                     m         5,000,000            6,303,688        6,303,688       100            126
                      Subtotal                 26,360,000          23,999,894        23,999,894       100            91
 SKMD/1     Concrete works
                                        3
              Baday Tugay             m             1,758               1,990             1,990       100            113
                                        3
              SKMC                    m             8,695               5,319             5,319       100            61
                                        3
              AMD                     m             3,727               2,506             2,506       100            67
                       Subtotal                    14,180               9,815             9,815       100            69
 MS/1       Earthworks
                                        3
              Beruni Rayon            m           444,324             239,629          228,343         95            51
                                        3
              Ellikkala Rayon         m         1,429,429            1,307,830        1,235,030        94            86
                                        3
              Turtkul Rayon           m           492,603            1,002,703         918,054         92            186
                       Subtotal                 2,366,356           2,550,162         2,381,427        93            101
 MS/1       Concrete works
                                        3
              Beruni Rayon            m             2,814               1,632             1,632       100            58
                                        3
              Ellikkala Rayon         m               909               1,550             1,451        94            160
                                        3
              Turtkul Rayon           m             1,461               1,735             1,698        98            116
                         Subtotal                   5,184               4,917             4,782        97            92
 MS/1       Land levelling
              Beruni Rayon            ha            2,000                 750               565        75            28
              Turtkul rayon           ha            2,000                 750               892       119            45
                         Subtotal                   4,000               1,500             1,458        97            36



                                                                       14
                                                             (1)                 (2)
 Contract   Main Works             Units      Original BOQ         Revised BOQ         Completed     % Completed   % Revised vs
                                                                                               (3)
                                                                                          BOQ                        Original
 MS/1       Deep ripping
              Beruni Rayon           ha               2,000               2,263             1,791        79             90
              Turtkul rayon          ha               2,000               2,263             2,708       120            135
                        Subtotal                      4,000               4,525             4,499        99            112
 CAR/1      Earthworks
                                       3
              Beruni rayon           m              818,419             517,717          517,717        100            63
                                       3
              Turtkul rayon          m             1,130,412           1,688,933        1,688,933       100            149
                       Subtotal                    1,948,831          2,206,650        2,206,650        100            113
 CAR/1/1    Concrete works
                                       3
              Beruni rayon           m                5,374               6,649             6,649       100            124
                                       3
              Turtkul rayon          m                3,679               4,676             4,676       100            127
                       Subtotal                       9,053              11,325            11,325       100            125
 CAR/1/1    Kokdarya
                                       3
              Concrete works         m                  520                   520             520       100            100
 CAR/1/2    Earthworks
                                       3
              Beruni rayon           m             1,779,059           1,779,059         397,522         22            22
 CAR/1/2    Concrete works
                                       3
              Beruni rayon           m                 3,365                                  256                       8
                                       3
 D1/2       Earthworks               m             2,534,649           2,534,649                0         0             0
                                       3
            Concrete                 m                3,945               3,945                 0         0             0
            AMDworks
                                       3
             Earthworks              m              400,000             400,000            83,450        21            21
(1) As per Contract
(2) As per Working Drawing and Final Measurement
(3) As per Completion to Date




                                                                         15
                                                                                                        Annex J

              SKWRMIP: Indicative Safeguards Policies Applicability (subject to the ongoing ESIA).

WB Safeguard Policy                     Policy Applicability   Reasoning/Comments
                                                                Likely a Category A Project (or a heavy B)
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP                                 Overall positive impacts perceived
                                        Yes
4.01)                                                           Minor negative direct impacts perceived
                                                                Minor external impacts perceived.
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)           Yes                    Natural Habitats exist in project area
Forestry (OP/BP 4.36)                   No
Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09)            TBD                       Incremental vertical and horizontal expansion
                                                                   expected %53.
                                                                  TBD after EIA. Depending on baseline
                                                                   concentration of diffuse pollution (Alpha-
                                                                   BHC, Gamma-BHC, BETA-BHC, Delta-BHC,
                                                                   Heptachlor Aldrine, Heptachlorepoxide, etc),
                                                                   the incremental pesticide load may not lead
                                                                   to exceeding the concentration norms.
                                                                  Baseline case: Biological pesticides replaced
                                                                   chemical ones, albeit with some frequent use
                                                                   of chemical ones if pest is uncommon.
                                                                   Government provides farmers with soft loans
                                                                   on farm inputs including pesticides. MoAWR
                                                                   staff apply the pesticides or train farmers on
                                                                   how to apply them, hence farmers do not
                                                                   have liberty to overuse them.
                                                                  The IPM should ensure: low toxicity, short
                                                                   persistence in ambient environmental
                                                                   elements, low application dose with high
                                                                   efficacy, rapid bio degradable, no effect on
                                                                   non targets.
                                                                  TBD after EIA.
                                                                  Chance finds, based on DIWIP
Physical Cultural Property (OP/BO
                                        TBD                        experience/modality.
4.11)
                                                                  Obstruction of cultural properties as a result
                                                                   of rehabilitation works
Indigenous Peoples (4.10)               No
Involuntary Resettlement
                                        TBD
(OP/BP 4.12)
                                                                  Tuyamuyun reservoir (likely plus a new
                                                                   regulator/dam on the river in project area, to
Safety of Dams
                                        TBD                        be considered by the FS).
(OP/BP 4.37)
                                                                  TBD after EIA (and building on DIWIP
                                                                   outcomes).
                                                                  Subject to ESIA, notification requirement will
                                                                   be determined and an exemption sought if
Projects in International Water Ways
                                        Yes                        the ESIA determines that the project has no
(OP 7.50)
                                                                   or a positive impact on downstream water
                                                                   availability
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP
                                        No
7.60)

                                                       16
17
                                                                                                          Annex J

                                Water Balance before and after proposed Investments

Water-Balance component         Before project (cropped        After project (cropped   Comments/assumptions
MCM/year                        area 99,000 hectare)           area 115,000 hectare
                                                               by 2025) (Moderate)
Reliable annual inflow          25,000 MCM/year                25,000 MCM/year          At 80% probability of exceedance.
available at Tuyamuyun                                                                  Assume neutral effect from climate
                                                                                        change.

Turkmenistan Abstraction        7,000 MCM/year                 Assume 7,000 MCM/yr      There was a rising trend over latest
                                                                                        decade. Assume further rises offset
                                                                                        by water-saving I&D modernization
                                                                                        in Turkmenistan by 2025.

SK crop evapo-transpiration     475 MCM/year                   538 MCM/year

SK irrigation demand (supply)   1,125 MCM/year                 1,280 MCM/year           Cotton reduced by 20% Wheat
                                                                                        increased by 200%, Efficiency
                                                                                        increase 42% to 44%

SK river diversions including   4,200 MCM/year                 1,280 MCM/year           Major water savings due to
extras for pumping stations.                                                            switching to Bustan gravity
                                                                                        irrigation.

Drainage water for natural      650 MCM/year                   680 MCM/year             Difference between irrigation
habitats and for South Aral                                                             demand and ETc.
Sea.

Fresh water for ecological      16,875 MCM/year                16,783 MCM/year          Closing the balance.
functions in lower Amu
Darya, and for M&I uses.

Total (fresh plus saline)       17,525 MCM/yr                  17,462 MCM/year          Exceeds 30% of basin inflows.
environmental flows.                                                                    Increased by project.

  Key observations:
   Estimates of SK crop evapotranspiration and irrigation demand are based on preliminary estimates being
      prepared for the DIWIP feasibility study being prepared by the Consultant.
   Due to the limited topography, the live storage in Tuyamuyun reservoir is only around 5.5 BCM (including
      Turkmenistan). This is adequate for intra-seasonal storage but not for inter-annual storage.
   Over the last 25 years, the annual inflow available at Tuyamuyun ranged from 27 to 60 BCM/year, with the
      mean annual being around 40 BCM/year, and a minimum 27 BCM/year recorded in 2001. Turkmenistan and
      Uzbekistan irrigation withdrawals were around 7 and 4 BCM/year respectively. The low-year inflows (such as
      27 to 30 BCM/year) largely ascribed to the winter releases from the winter hydropower peaks in Tajikistan,
      hence cannot be fully reliable in meeting the summer peak irrigation demand in SKWRMIP areas (as the
      summer inflows in those low years were uncommonly much lower than the summer irrigation demands);
      hence backup releases from the Tuyamuyun storage would be needed during these low years. The reliable
      annual inflow (at 80% probability of exceedance) should therefore be deemed not higher than around 25
      BCM/year.



                                                          18
   The SKWRMIP irrigation demand is similar to current demand, as though cropped area increases demand
    remains similar due to changes in cropping pattern and modest increase in irrigation efficiency. Therefore, the
    environmental flows remaining for the downstream ecological functions and for Turkmenistan withdrawals
                                                                      3
    will not be undermined (if a minimum base flow of around 200 m /sec is maintained in lower Amu Darya).
   SKWRMIP would help Uzbekistan to comply with the agreement signed with Turkmenistan in 1996 regarding
    on the joint and rational use of Amu Darya water. The agreement (Article 9) requires that both countries stop
    discharging drainage water into Amu Darya. DWIP helped to achieve this goal by re-directing the saline-
    drainage outflow to Aral Sea (with a better water quality), and SKWRMIP will build on this achievement. More
    importantly, as mentioned above, the irrigation developments under SKWRMIP would not undermine the
    current withdrawals from Turkmenistan, because SKWRMIP will not cause a net increase in basin water use.
   To restore the Lower Aral Sea (from current 35m to its initial 53m BSL), the terminal flow at lower Amu Darya
    river should be a sustainable minimum 25 BCM/year, which is becoming very difficult due to the upstream
    irrigation expansions in the last 3 decades. The acceptable terminal flow in lower Amu Darya that can meet
                                                                                                   3
    the water needs of the wetlands (adjacent to Aral Sea) can be around 10 BCM/year or 200 m /sec.
   Generally the non-irrigation environmental (saline plus fresh-water) flows are deemed adequate at around
    30% of basin’s inflows.




                                                        19
                                                                                         Annex K

                                     Financial Management


Tashkent PIU
The financial management (FM) arrangements at PIU, including accounting, budgeting and
planning, reporting, internal controls, external audits, funds flow, organization and staffing are
considered to be satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. The FM staff is experienced in the
Bank’s procedures. The level of counterpart funding was assessed to be satisfactory, however,
counterpart funds are disbursed with delays.
The internal control system at the PIU is acceptable to the Bank and was assessed as capable of
providing timely information and reporting under the DIWIP Project. The latest update of the
Financial Management Manual (FMM) was made in September 2009. However, the revised
FMM needs further enhancement in regard to internal control and accounting sections. i.e.
authorization of expenditures and approval of the payments, bank reconciliation, verification of
expenditures eligibility by the Chief Accountant and/or Disbursement/Financial Specialist;
description of financial documents flow/circulation, formal reconciliation procedures of project
records with Client Connection and XDR/USD reconciliation, safeguards for assets, maximum
allowed daily cash operations, etc.

The accounting at PIU is maintained in accordance with accrual basis of Uzbek National
Accounting Standards. For reporting purposes, cash basis IPSAS is used. PIU utilizes 1C
accounting software which has multi-user and dual currency (UZS and USD) functionalities and
is capable of generating FMRs and SOEs. However, the 1-C version utilized by the PIU is
outdated and PIU is still in the process of its modification.

FMRs for all four quarters for FY 2010 of the project have been received on time and found to
be acceptable.

The auditor, Tsiar Finance of Uzbekistan, issued an unqualified opinion on DIWIP’s financial
statements for FY2009. Audit report and accompanying financial statements for the FY2009
were received on June 30, 2010 and have been accepted by the World Bank on the exceptional
basis as the Financial Statements missed a Balance Sheet, despite that it was required under
agreed TOR. Moreover, from the audit opinion it was not clear what accounting standards have
been applied while preparation of the financial statements. The auditor has raised five issues in
the Management Letter, relating to (i) financing of banking charges; (ii) proportion of financing
of invoices that include VAT; and (iii) improper calculation of vacation payments to the PIU
staff; (iv) inaccurate calculation of income tax from salaries of local individual consultants
caused by glitches of accounting software; (v) accuracy of price adjustments calculations under
construction contracts. The first two issues are recurring from previous periods and the PIU
Management have been making certain steps to address them. The PIU management reported
that problems with accounting software has been eliminated and provided very satisfactory


                                               20
and detailed explanation on price adjustment methodology. The mission ensured that the
software problems have been eliminated.

The auditor’s selection process for the FY year 2010 is underway. The auditors have been
already shortlisted and the contract is to be signed by the end of April. The audit report is
expected to be received on time, i.e. June 30, 2011.

Nukus PIU

The financial management (FM) arrangements at Nukus PIU, including accounting, budgeting
and planning, reporting, internal controls, external audits, funds flow, organization and staffing
are considered to be not fully satisfactory to the Bank.

The internal control system at Nukus PIU needs major improvements in order to become
satisfactory to the Bank. There is no FMM in place and it is not clear under what internal
control policies and procedures the project operates. There are generally weak controls over
fulfillment of financial conditions of contracts, improper control over budget implementation,
improper back-up arrangements, etc.

FMRs for FY 2010 for Pilot Silk Development Project have been received on time and found to
be acceptable.

The accounting of the project is maintained in 1C Enterprise that is not adapted for special
requirements of the WB financed projects, in particular does not have functions allowing
automatic generation of FMRs, SOEs, GoU required reports, etc.

The audit report for Karakalpakstan Silk Development Pilot Project (JSDF Grant 057070)
covering the period January 1 – December 31, 2009 was received with delays on July 7, 2010.
The auditor, TSIAR FINANCE LLC, Uzbekistan, has issued an unqualified on the project financial
statements.

The audit report, management letter and the accompanying project financial statements were
found satisfactory to the Bank.

The auditor has issued a management letter that highlighted a number of internal control
weaknesses, together with recommendations on how to address those weaknesses. It was
noted that some of them are recurrent from the previous periods. The issue regarding late
posting of accounting entries into the cash book have been mentioned by the auditor in its
Management Letter for FY 2008. While the positive fact was that the Management in general
agreed with the auditor’s recommendation, it noted that there was no progress made since last
year in this regard.

The mission noted that the action plan agreed during the last visit was not implemented and
need to be addressed urgently.

                                               21
Compliance with financial covenants
The PIU is in compliance with the financial covenants under the DIWIP project. Particularly, the
FMRs under the project are submitted on time and found to be acceptable. The audit report for
the FY 2009 with unqualified (clean) opinion was received on time and found to be acceptable.

Actions Agreed as a result of the current mission
As a result of the current supervision separate action plans have been elaborated for the
Project:
     New actions agreed                               Deadline      Responsibilities
         1. Revise the Financial Management           By June 30, Chief Accountant
            Manual to incorporate sections relating   2011          and
            to:                                                     Financial/Disburs
                                                                    ement Specialist
         c) Financial reporting and auditing
            arrangements; and
        d) Update sections relating to accounting
           and internal control policies and
           procedures (including setting limits for
           volume of monthly cash operations)
        2. Finalize modification of the current         By June 30, PIU Management
           accounting software                          2011         and          Chief
                                                                     Accountant       &
                                                                     Financial/Disburs
                                                                     ement Specialist
        3. Ensure that the audit report for the FY      Immediately  PIU Management,
           2010 is submitted on time, i.e. by June      and          relevant      staff
           30, 2011                                     continuously members        and
                                                                     Chief Accountant
                                                                     &
                                                                     Financial/Disburs
                                                                     ement Specialist
        4. To implement last mission                    By June 30, PIU Director and
           recommendations in regard to the KSDP        2011         Accountant




                                              22
