Document of                       FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2467a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 11, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           -  CFAF 220
CFAF 1 million    =  US$4,545
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)      2          -  3.28 square feet (ft)
1 square meter Cm )             10.76 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)      2     '  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )    -  0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CVCCEP    -  Commission de Verification des Comptes et de
Controle des Etablissements Publics
DGHER     -  General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Equipment
SONEES    -  Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Senegal
Amount:        US$2.5 million equivalent
Terms:         10 years including a grace period of 2 years.  The proposed
Credit would be refinanced under a future Loan/Credit for a
project in the water and sanitation sector.
Project        The proposed engineering and technical assistance project would
Description:  cover all the necessary economic, financial, and technical
studies needed to prepare a priority investment project for
rehabilitation and extension of water supply systems in eleven
secondary centers of the country, including six regional
capitals. The project also includes technical assistance to
strengthen the planning and operating entities in the sector.
The project is expected to make an important contribution to
helping the Government achieve its long-range objectives of
organizing and strengthening the water supply and sanitation
sector. The Government is keenly interested in this project,
and its full support will be needed in implementing recom-
mendations from the various project studies. The project faces
no special risks.
Estimated      The cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$3.2 million
Project Cost: equivalent, including foreign costs of about US$2.5 million
(about 78%) and taxes of US$0.1 million. A summary table
of cost estimates is shown below:
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiztion.



- ii -
(in US$'000)
Local  Foreign  Total
a.   Geophysical and Drilling Works               159       568      727
b.   Water Supply Feasibility Studies             227       545      772
c.   Sanitation and Sewage Disposal Studies        22       173      195
d.   Financial Studies and Audit                   27       182      209
e.   Sector Organization Studies                    6        82       88
f.   Training and Tariff Studies                   13       119     132
g.   Master Plan on Management of
Water Resources                             45       182     227
h.   Technical Assistance                          96       384     480
Total Base Costs                             595    2,235   2,830
Contingencies                                105      265      370
TOTAL COSTS                            700    2,500   3,200
Financing
Plan            The proposed Credit of US$2.5 million would meet the entire
foreign exchange cost of the project; the Government would
finance the local cost component estimated at US$0.7 million
equivalent, including about US$0.1 million in taxes on the
geophysical and drilling works.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 FY80     FY81
Annual                   1.3       1.2
Cumulative               1.3       2.5
Rate of
Return:         Not applicable.
Staff
Appraisal
Report   :    None.
Map:            IBRD No. 11470R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$2.5
million to help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project. The Credit would be for 10 years including a grace period of
2 years, and would be refinanced under a possible Loan/Credit envisaged for
a project in the water and sanitation sector.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series of
preparatory 'sector missions, a basic economic mission, and most recently a
public finance mission have visited Senegal to update the macroeconom!ic data
base and to review the country's development strategy. The following para-
graphs reflect the findings of these missions, whose conclusions will be
included in a basic economic report now being finalized. Updated country
data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African
continent. In the traditional sector of the economy, the mainstay is. millet
cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and ground-
nut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in
rainfall periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the
sowing and hLarvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of
them fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only margin-
ally. Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country
arable land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land
is still avaLilable. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in
Dakar, a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic
base of Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industrial sector
which is turning gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing
tourism industry.  Senegal's per capita GNP for 1977 was estimated at US$420,
but average income in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the country-
side.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population growth (the
latter now estimated at 2.7 percent per annum), and per capita GNP declined.
Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with independence,
Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French West Africa,



- 2 -
and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative and political
circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade, groundnut produc-
tion (representing the principal export factor) fell due to unfavorable
weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
7.5 percent during the period 1970-75, while public investments increased
from around 5.5 percent of GDP in 1972 to almost 7 percent during 1973-75.
In spite of this rise in the rate of investment, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops. From
a historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period) output fell to less than 0.6 million tons in
1977/78; but it recovered to about one million tons in 1978/79, ushering in
a new phase of economic recovery. Despite these substantial fluctuations in
agricultural production, industrial output (excluding groundnut processing)
grew fairly evenly by about 5 percent a year. GDP in constant prices in-
creased at an average annual rate of 4 percent between 1973 and 1977 thanks
to the recovery from the earlier droughts, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 14 percent.
6.        The strong physical fluctuations in production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, mainly due to exceptionally high
prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However, in
1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply,
and since then the terms of trade have stayed well below the level of the
early 1970s. These wide international price fluctuations had serious conse-
quences on domestic prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        After some early hesitation, the Government responded with flexi-
bility in adapting its policies to changes in the economic environment. In
1974, Government initially tried to maintain stable domestic prices in the
face of skyrocketing food import prices; however, by the end of that year
when it became clear that the cost of this policy were becoming excessive,
several changes were made. Particularly, in an attempt to reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, Government raised the prices
for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. As a compensation,
Government salaries were raised on average by 16 percent, with actual
increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades to 3 percent for
the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 percent, thus raising
the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average consumer prices rose



- 3 -
by some 28 percent in six months' time, but Government managed to stabilize
prices almost completely in the year thereafter. At the end of 1974, the
Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring thLem closer
to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The loss of
revenue to the Treasury because of this latter step was expected to be com-
pensated in large part by additional revenues from the phosphdLe mine in
which Government increased its participation while levying an 80 percent
tax on the excess profits accruing from the quadrupling of export prices
of phosphates in 1972/73. In 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive
high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45 million a yrear.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$23 million during 1971 through 1973, to
US$41 million during 1974 through 1976. This high level of public savings was
doubtless an important factor in stimulating Government to increase public
investment outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million
during the same two periods. In addition, purchases of equity and lending to
domestic enterprises by Government increased sharply from a past average of
US$5 million to US$62 million in FY74, and about US$32 million in 1975 and
1976, mainly because of increased participation in the phosphate mine and
the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined
capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public
savings, and were financed in large part through medium-term foreign bank
loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service carried by the Central Govern-
ment increaLsed from US$8 million in FY73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, repre-
senting about 10 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminate,l Govern-
ment revenues from this source and reduced public savings after debt service
to a negligible level. As a consequence, Government increased taxes in the
following year to derive additional yearly proceeds of about US$37 million;
these tax measures, combined with a substantial restraint on recurrent ex-
penditures,, gave Government an opportunity to undertake some new comnmercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would be a complete failure, Government substantially increased current
expenditures to avoid famine in the countryside by importing more cereals
and absolviing farmers' debts; however, the Government did not reduce its
investment program which was kept going through heavy commercial borrowing
(US$134 million in 1977 and US$187 million in 1978). As a consequence, in
1980/81 when grace periods are over, debt service obligations to the budget
will reach about US$145 million (or 16.4 percent of Government revenues). To
cover this debt service and still leave a sufficient national contribution to
the public investment program, the tax ratio will have to be increased from
23 percent of GDP in 1976/77 to 25 percent in 1979/80, even if growth of
recurrent expenditures is held, for a number of years, at rates well below
existing trends. This will demand substantial restructuring of current budget
expenditures so as to protect such high priority outlays as road maintenance,
education and public health.



-4-
Balance of Payments
10.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
outflows of p;ivate capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign reserves declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. This deficit was financed partly by US$30 million in IHF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing the indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks to their parent companies.
11.       Since then, the situation has not improved.  In 1976, the state
marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop at the high producer prices
established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the economy,
while Government continued expansive monetary and budgetary policies. Both
measures substantially increased import demand. However, export revenues
stagnated since groundnut prices were 25 percent below the 1974 peak, and
phosphate prices were down by 35 percent. Even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. The year 1977 did not bring any
substantial improvement, although the 1976/77 groundnut crop was good. In
December 1977 net foreign assets were down to minus US$53 million.
12.       The 1977/78 drought caused a loss of US$82 million in groundnut
revenues and drove up food imports by US$56 million (partly paid from foreign
grants), creating a deficit on current account of US$228 million as compared
to US$101 million in the previous year. Thanks to the heavy commercial borrow-
ing, the impact of this huge trade deficit on net foreign assets could be
limited to US$34 million, a deficit that was financed by drawings on the IMP
compensatory facility and trust fund.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based on
promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural
program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctuations
(Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than groundnuts can be
grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern
part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy will make the
country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and world market
prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports; but since the majority
of the rural poor remain involved in groundnut farming, Government is con-
tinuing its efforts to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer
use, and crop rotation to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government
also aims at long-term improvement of the balance of payments mainly through
modest expansion of phosphate mining, and development of light export in-
dustries and tourism; moreover, contracts have been signed for construction
of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phosphoric acid plant are in an
advanced stage. With chances for export growth in the groundnut sector



- 5 -
limited, and because of relatively high production costs in light industry, no
spectacular improvements in the balance of payments can be expected. Govern-
ment is counting heavily on the implementation of a number of large invest-
ments, either in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence on r:Lce imports,
or in capital-intensive industrial projects, which is, however, less desirable
from an employment point of view.  In view of the risks that Government would
have to assume on the above-mentioned large-scale industrial investments, a
cautious view of the long-term outlook is warranted. Even to achieve an eco-
nomic growth rate of not more than 4 percent a year as compared to an official
objective of 5.8 percent, the resource gap will keep growing, although still
within manageable limits.
14.       In the medium term, Government will need a particularly large pro-
portion of foreign capital in the financing of new projects so as to allow
implementation of a high public investment program in spite of lilmited public
savings. Such a program is essential for Senegal's future development,
because total investments would have to increase over the next several years
to bring the country back on a satisfactory growth path. Moreover, the share
of the public sector in total investments will have to go up, partly because
of the critical dependence of the economy on acceleration of publicly financed
irrigation, partly because of the increased share in ownership Government has
recently acquired in the most important sectors of the economy, and partly
because of the low propensity of the private sector to invest due to high
production costs in Senegal.
15.       This need for high public investments conflicts with existing trends
in public savings. Despite a fast growth in Government receipts, public
savings after debt service stagnated at a low level in the past, and are
expected to become heavily negative in 1978-79, a period with low receipts due
to the depressed economic condition in the previous drought year. Interest
and amortization on the heavy debt contracted during this drought year will
absorb most of the savings the budget can possibly generate in thIe next four
to five years. Considering the already very high level of taxation in Senegal,
further increases in the tax burden, while unavoidable, will necessarily
remain limited, so that even under the best of circumstances, pubLic savings
cannot be expected to contribute more than 15-20 percent towards the financing
of new public investment.
16.       To avoid a further increase of the debt service burden, Government
should not, for some years, contract new commercial loans to finance projects
that do rnot generate sufficient funds for the repayment of these loans.
Higher debt service will necessarily compete with other recurrent expenditures
such as the maintenance of existing infrastructure and of new development
projects,, types of expenditures which already provide budgetary problems for
the Government. As a consequence, it is almost certain that a considerable
number of projects presently under consideration which are not directly
productive will have to be postponed. Government will also have t:o avoid
excessive financial risks on productive projects by being more se:Lective in
its participations and guarantees on loans contracted by mixed enterprises,
and may even have to consider disengaging itself entirely from some of these



ventures. A better economic performance in the parapublic sector should be
a key ingredient in the fiscal program Government is presently designing.
17.       The balarnc c' payments situation is dominated by the need for a
better foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can afford low
levels of foreign reserves through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed by the French Government. Moreover, as the experience in 1978 has
shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a sufficient buffer for the periodic
drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in world market
prices. However, Senegal's negligible contribution to the Union's foreign
reserves for an extended period may harm this regional institution, whose
existence is a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. An expected
improvement in the public savings performance, together with continuing
export-oriented policies, is expected to bring about a recovery of this
unsatisfactory foreign reserve position.
18.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor serv-
ices increased rapidly from 6 percent in 1976 to a projected 15 percent in
1979, a level which the Bank considers close to the maximum allowable in
Senegal's present economic situation. This steep increase is mainly due
to an increase of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of total bor-
rowing during 1973-76 to an average of 64 percent during 1977 and 1978. Only
with much greater reliance on concessionary capital flows will Government be
able to keep the external debt service ratio around the present level. This
might require a certain reduction in foreign borrowing over the coming years,
especially if access to concessionary capital remains limited.
19.       On the assumption that Government takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public savings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to development by increasing public investments between 1970/71
and 1977/78 by 20 percent per year in current prices. The Government has
also demonstrated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which
its vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically. In August 1978,
the National Assembly was called from summer recess to approve a new fiscal
package amounting to US$20 million, and Government is presently working (in
cooperation with IMF and the Bank Group) on a new set of fiscal measures to
redress the public finance situation. Government has committed itself to
bringing the level of public savings after debt service to at least 15 percent
of public investment over the next few years. Senegal has reasonable pros-
pects for long-term diversification and growth. Its access to short-term
financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary Union also
reduce the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However, lenders
(including the Bank Group) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a further rapid buildup of debt
service.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.       The Bank Group has had 39 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$199.6 million, including twenty ADA credits,
thirteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC operations,
and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979, and
notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these projects
is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations have been affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing dif-
ficult public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified locaL staff
for key positions. The Government is well aware of the need to reduce delays
caused by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assuring good
management supervision of projects in all sectors.  In this respect, the
Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project approved by the Executive
Directors in January 1978 is designed to initiate measures necessary to
resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the issues regarding the general situa-
tion of the country's finances and Government control of public enterprises
and mixed companies, particularly those which are channels for Bank Group
assistance. In addition, the Government has recently created an Interminis-
terial Committee, with representation of foreign aid donors, to expedite
preparation of new investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project
execution and take remedial action. The work of this committee has already
begun to prodluce some positive results.
21.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1977-81 will stay at around 16 percent, of which roughly 45 percent in
IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was 20
percent in 1976, and will slowly start to surpass that level to 22 percent in
1980. The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase
from 3.8 percent in 1976 to about 9 percent by 1985, a rise which is mainly
due to the increase in Bank loans from 21 percent of Senegal's outstanding
disbursed debt to the Bank Group at end-1976 to about 53 percent by 1985.
22.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five main
headings. First, we continue to give priority to rural development, includ-
ing development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region and intensi-
fication of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and new
regions. As in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over the
next few years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have supported
diversification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial sector
through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de :L'Industrie
et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company established with
Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing tourism project.  Thirdly,
we have supported modernization and expansion (where economically desirable)
of the country's infrastructure. The engineering project proposed in this
report would pave the way for Bank Group involvement in the water supply
and sanitation sector by financing studies for a water supply project in
eleven secondary centers, as well as technical assistance and consulting



- 8 -
services to help define sector responsibilities and strengthen sector institu-
tions.   Fourthly, Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the
country's education system at all levels, by meeting in particular the needs
for trained high- and middle-level technicians and managers in the modern
sector and in agricultural development activities, and by increasing access
to primary level education, particularly in rural areas. An education project
which will be negotiated shortly is designed to meet these objectives. We
remain conscious of the need to support other projects in the social services
sector, within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent
costs involved, and we have started preparing a nutrition project. Finally,
we are helping Government increase its absorptive capacity for planning,
executing, and managing development projects through institutional support
within individual Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts such as
the Technical Assistance Project for the Para-Public Sector. Several Bank
operations which fit into the overall objectives of the Government's economic
strategy, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port infrastructure, loans
to SOFISEDIT, as well as a Second Aviation Project approved by the Board
earlier in FY79, have the additional merit of generating revenues for the
Senegalese Treasury.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
23.       Water resources in Senegal are unevenly distributed, scanty, and
only partly investigated. There are three perennial rivers which border or
cross the country: the Senegal on the North, and the Casamance and the Gambia
in the Southern region. Although, generally limited in quantity and quality,
groundwater is the country's principal source of water supply. The Government
has undertaken a systematic inventory of groundwater resources with assistance
from the United Nations Development programme (UNDP) and bilateral funds.
The inventory initially concentrated on areas neighboring the capital city
of Dakar where development of irrigation and industrial projects requires
larger quantities of water. The inventory is beginning to yield adequate
information on water potential; however, management of these resources and
their allocation among various users has not been studied. The proposed
credit would finance studies on the allocation and management of ground water
resources in the Dakar-Saint-Louis corridor.
Water Supply
24.       A limited study of the water supply and sewerage sector was carried
out in 1975 under the World Health Organization (WHO)/IBRD Cooperative program.
Information collected under that study revealed that almost 70% of the urban
population had access to public water supply service, but that only 15% of the
rural population shared this privilege. That part of the rural population
which is adequately served has wells or boreholes; the remainder is served by
non-perennial and remote sources of supply. Only about one-third of the urban



population has private connections; the remaining two-thirds obtain service
through public standpipes.
Sanitation
25.       Public sewerage systems exist only in the larger cities of Dakar,
Saint-Louis, Kaolack and Louga, and the service provided is restricted to
the central parts of towns and to a relatively small part of the population.
The remainder of the urban population not sewered have individual disposal
systems: latrines, privies and septic tanks. Before July 1978 when sewerage
and drainage activities were merged with those of the water sector under
the Ministry of Equipment, the Government had contracted about US$27 million
equivalent to finance sewerage and drainage works in certain secondary cen-
ters. Similar suppliers' credits are being considered for other centers;
however, existing studies for these works are unsatisfactory in that the
projects proposed are not shown to be affordable and to represent the least-
cost soluticins. Moreover, most of the completed sewerage systems are not
in operatiorn because of failure by the population to make the necessary
connections (neither the financial means nor legislation making connections
compulsory exist). For centers not yet studied, the proposed project includes
updating studies of waste disposal which would focus on such issues as appli-
cation of appropriate technology, least-cost solution and affordability, and
motivation and hygiene education for the population; these inputs are con-
sidered necessary to ensure that the project benefits reach the intended
beneficiaries. The proposed studies would also investigate comprehensive
legislative and financial measures which would optimize, to the extent
possible, the use of existing investments in the sector.
Public Health
26.       T'here are few reliable statistics on specific water-borne and sani-
tation-associated diseases, although morbidity due to common enteric and
parasitic diseases is known to be high throughout the country. The more
commonly observed of the important water-related diseases are: malaLria,
various diarrheas, dysenteries, and parasitic infections directly attributable
to environmental deficiencies. Riverblindness remains prevalent in areas
bordering the rivers of Southern and Eastern Senegal. Excess of fluoride in
wells in the Sine Saloum Region also contributes to illness. The Ministry of
Health is responsible for monitoring the water quality of public systems and
the reliability of waste disposal installations, but because of a shortage
of qualified staff to routinely fulfill its role, the Ministry has limited
its intervention to urban areas at critical periods of epidemics.
Sector Organization
27.       A Ministerial change creating the Ministry of Equipment in 1978
placed most sector responsibilities for water supply and sanitation in the
Ministry's General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Equipment (DGHER).
While DGHER's competence includes planning, implementing and monitoring



- 10 -
operations in the whole sector, operations themselves of the urban systems
are the responsibility of Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
(SONEES). All sector assets are owned by the state.
28.       DGHER's activities in the urban subsector have been limited to
technical planning for water supply and sewerage investments and execution
of works. The limited number of qualified senior Senegalese and expatriate
staff did not allow the Directorate to effectively carry out its overall
planning and monitoring roles for which it remains very weak. The proposed
credit would remedy these weaknesses by providing technical assistance to
DGHER to better carry out these functions. DGHER also controls the execu-
tion and maintenance of rural watering points, and is implementing an ambi-
tious program of well digging and drilling to serve the human and the cattle
population. Well brigades in DGHER's regional offices have been set up over
the last five years with the assistance of the Association and bilateral
agencies, and these brigades have been responsible for implementing most
of the well digging activities. The remaining constraints to smooth imple-
mentation of rural watering points are inadequate budget allocations for
the well brigades and for maintenance operations, and insufficient numbers
of adequately trained field technicians. Maintenance and operation of power-
driven rural systems are carried out by a special subdivision of DGHER, but
with limited staff and credit facilities.
29.       SONEES, a national mixed enterprise created in 1971, took over the
activities of the former foreign-owned concession. It is managed by a Board
of six senior Ministry officials who appoint a Managing Director. Early
efforts to assure appropriate management of water schemes in 36 urban centers
have been hampered by lack of qualified Senegalese senior staff. While
SONEES' responsibility also extends to carrying out designing and supervision
of works for water schemes it operates, SONEES has not actively pursued these
functions which are shared with DGHER and has limited its role to operations.
An efficient training policy aimed at training young technicians was estab-
lished with good results, and SONEES now has an adequate cadre of qualified
engineers and administrative staff. As a result, operations in Dakar and
secondary centers have improved significantly. In order to help SONEES take
an efficient role in designing and supervision of works, the proposed credit
would finance technical assistance of an engineer to set up a Study and
Works Supervision Department and to train Senegalese engineers; the Credit
also includes consulting services for the review of measures taken to
strengthen SONEES' internal organization.
30.       The present sector organization does not foster optimum management
efficiency and sound investment decisions. The present demarcation of re-
sponsibilities between the various entities is not clearly defined; as a
result, overlapping of functions or lack of effective coordination have been
observed despite the 1978 ministerial change. The proposed credit would
finance consulting services for a review of existing institutional arrange-
ments to determine improvements or changes necessary to meet the long term
needs of the sector, including the desirability of consolidating the present
set up.



- 11 -
Financial Organization and Position
31.       Assets owned by the Government and operated by SONEES have a total
net book value of CFAF 11.8 billion (US$53.6 million equivalent), of which
the Lac de Guiers scheme supplying water to Dakar and villages along the
300 km pipe represent CFAF 7.2 billion (US$32.7 million), or about 60%.
Borrowing for financing these assets is administered and recorded by, the
General Amortization Fund of the Ministry of Finance. There is no single
set of accounts which covers financial operations of the sector as a whole.
SONEES maintains records for its own current operations, and a separate set
of accounts for Government-owned assets and their depreciation.
32.       The revenue source for the sector is a charge on consumption of
metered water. The tariff includes a number of components, the corresponding
revenue being earmarked for: (i) SONEES' current operating expenses; (ii)
small new investments and renewals to be effected by SONEES on behalf of the
Ministry of Equipment; and (iii) debt service which is handled by the Govern-
ment's General Amortization Fund. Since November 1977, the full tariff for
the Dakar region is CFAF 140 (US$0.64) per cubic meter; for the other regions,
the tariff is slightly lower. 1/ However, important tariff reductions are
applied to standpipe consumption, agro-industries, and commercial vegetable
growers, although some of these reductions appear questionable. There is also
a social tariff which is applied to domestic consumers with small connections.
The proposed project provides consulting services to further review the tar-
iff level and structure, including a review of methods of applying charges
to cover the costs of expanding sewerage operations.
33.       In the past the sector was operated at a deficit.  However, fol-
lowing the tariff increase of November 1977, data compiled by the appraisal
mission indicate that the sector on a consolidated basis is in a slightly
better tharL break-even situation. Billings expected for 1978 are about
CFAF 5.3 billion (US$24.1 million), which would cover cash operating costs
and debt service for assets in operation. Debt service stayed at a rea-
sonable level in the past as the major part of sector assets, i.e. the Lac
de Guiers scheme has been financed on concessionary terms. However, the
Government is planning important investments in water and sanitation, and
if these are realized, the financial position of the sector could deteriorate.
Capital expenditure plans and their financing will therefore need close moni-
toring, and agreement was obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it will not make any additional investment in the (1) sanitation sector
and (2) for water supply systems in cities with more than 5,000 inhabitants
during execution of the proposed project without prior consultation with the
Association (Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement). In addi-
tion assurances were obtained that the Government will not make any invest-
ments in the centers being studied under the project, other than for routine
repair and renewals or urgently needed works (which would be justified to
the Association), before (a) the feasibility studies have been completed, and
(b) there has been an exchange of views with the Association.
1/   Comparable figures for other West African countries are:  Ivory Coast
US$0.1i0; Liberia US$0.45; Guinea US$0.40; and Cameroon US$0.57.



- 12 -
34.       A major problem is the exceedingly high level of unpaid customer
receivables; on December 31, 1977, these amounted to CFAF 3.8 billion (US$17.3
million), corresponding to about one year of billings. Those most difficult
to collect are owed by the Administration, by Government agencies, the munici-
palities, and commercial vegetable growers. The proposed study on SONEES'
finances would include an analysis of the arrears situation, and recommenda-
tions on appropriate measures to be undertaken to improve collections.
Objectives of the Water Supply Sector
35.       The last national four-year Development Plan (1973-1977) allocated
about US$73 million for urban water supply and sewerage, and US$15 million for
rural water supply. The rural investments generally have been implemented;
however, proposed investments in urban networks did not receive the level of
foreign commitments anticipated, and only about half of the program was
actually implemented with the remainder carried over to the next Plan period.
The current Plan (1977-81) has set targets of about US$60 million for urban
water supply and sewerage disposal, and about US$31 million for rural water
supply; about 45% of these amounts appear to be committed under domestic and
external financing. Based upon past experience, the global level of proposed
investments is unlikely to be achieved because of the limited absorptive
capacity of the sector entities, their difficulty in adequately planning
and preparing projects, and the scarcity of counterpart financing to meet
local costs. Ongoing projects are nearly all financed by external sources:
the African Development Bank has committed about US$10 million for extending
the water supply and drainage facilities in Dakar; the German aid agency KfW,
about US$5 million for extension of the water supply system in the town of
Saint-Louis and extension of the essentially urban Lac de Guiers piped systems
to rural communities; the European Development Fund, about US$5 million for
extension of the main trunk sewerage network of Dakar; Italian suppliers'
credits amounting to about US$22 million have been committed for extending
sewerage to Kaolack, Louga, and Saint-Louis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       The proposed Engineering Credit would be the Association's first
operation in the water supply and sewerage sector in Senegal. This sector
has been given high priority in the Government's recent Development Plans,
and the Bank Group has supported this policy. However, because of the his-
torical lack of adequate planning, organization, and financial management
in the sector, this first intervention comes only after protracted discussions
with the Government over the past few years on institutional aspects, possible
objectives and components of investment projects, and prerequisites for their
successful implementation. Following broad agreements reached with the Govern-
ment on these issues, identification of the proposed project was completed
in July 1977, and it was appraised in October 1978. Negotiations were held
in Dakar in March 1979 with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Moustapha Lo,



- 13 -
Secretary General of the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation.  There is no Staff
Appraisal Report for this project. IBRD Map 11470R shows the location of the
eleven secondary centers for which the investment project is envisaged (para.
39(b) below). Annex III indicates the timetable of key events in project
preparation and processing.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The Government had originally been mostly concerned with the prob-
lems of water supply and sewerage in the capital city of Dakar, but has
recently started giving greater emphasis to providing adequate services in
secondary centers, particularly in the regional capitals where these services
now reach only about 15% of the inhabitants through private connections, and
an additional 40% through public standpipes. Studies for extension of water
supply services in 37 secondary centers were prepared in 1975 with Government
financing; however, these studies did not focus on financial feasibility, nor
did they aLdequately study the availability of water resources or the social
and economic implications in project design.
38.       The proposed engineering project would cover all the necessary
economic, financial, sociological, and technical studies needed to undertake
a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of water supply
systems in eleven secondary centers of the country. The project also includes
technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating entities in the
sector, and a number of studies on sectoral issues.
39.       The proposed project, which would be carried out over 1979-81, would
include:
(a) geophysical and drilling works in the area between Dakar and
Saint-Louis, including the Taiba area;
(b) feasibility studies, detailed engineering, and preparation of
bidding documents, for water supply extensions in six regional
capital cities -- Diourbel, Kaolack, Louga, Thies, Tambacounda,
and Ziguinchor; and five secondary centers -- Bambey, Fatick,
Kolda, Linguere, and M'backe (about 7 man-years);
(c) updating of feasibility studies for the sanitation of all
the above centers except Kaolack, Louga, and Thies and
detailed design for the Dakar Medina sewerage network
(about 20 man-months);
(d) financial studies of the entire water supply and sanita-
tion sector, including audits of SONEES' accounts for
FY1978 and 1979 (about 12 man-months);
(e) review of the organization and management of the water supply
and sanitation sector, and an analysis of existing legal
instruments defining the responsibilities of sector entities
(about 10 man-months); and of SONEES' organizational structure
(3 man-months);



- 14 -
(f) studies of: (i) manpower development and training
requirements in the sector (7 man-months); and (ii)
review of tariffs for water supply and sewerage ser-
vices in the urban and rural sub-sectors (7 man-months);
(g) study of the allocation and management of water resources
in the Dakar-Saint-Louis corridor (25 man-months); and
(h) technical assistance of (i) an engineer (2 man-years)
to establish SONEES' design and works supervision services;
and (ii) an engineer and an economist (4 man-years) to rein-
force DGH's planning capacity for urban and rural water supply.
Project Costs and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$3.2 million equiva-
lent, of which about US$2.5 million in foreign exchange (about 78%). All
components are estimated net of taxes, with the exception of geophysical and
drilling works which include a minor amount of taxes. Cost estimates are
based on end-1978 prices, taking into account: (i) for field works, similar
operations recently implemented for DGHER; and (ii) for consulting services
and technical assistance, contracts offered in Senegal and in other Western
African countries over the past year. Unit costs for consulting services
and technical assistance average US$9,000 monthly, including US$1,500 for
reimbursable costs. Total consulting services under the project amount
to about 14 manyears, and technical assistance to about 6 man-years. Physi-
cal contingencies ranging from 10-15% for all project components have been
applied. Price contingencies of 8% per annum have been applied for studies
and technical assistance expected to take place in and after 1979.
41.       The proposed Credit of US$2.5 million would meet the entire foreign
exchange cost of the project and would be refinanced under a future IDA
credit. The Government would finance the local cost component of US$0.7
million equivalent.
Retroactive Financing
42.       Geophysical works which are a prerequisite for the drilling works
were tendered nationally in consultation with the Association and awarded
to the lowest bidder. The Government has agreed to prefinance that contract
for which early results are needed to proceed with the feasibility studies.
It is proposed that the Association approve retroactive financing to cover the
foreign exchange cost of geophysical works already undertaken (US$250,000).
Project Execution
43.       Project execution is expected to start in mid-1979, and to take
about two years to complete. The Ministry of Equipment would have primary



- 15 -
responsibility for most of the project components, with execution carried
out under separate DGHER divisions for Urban Hydraulics, Rural Equipment,
Sewage Disposal, and Studies and Programming. DGHER will coordinate with
SONEES to supervise the water and sanitation feasibility studies and the
water supply detailed engineering studies. The Government would be respon-
sible for the financial studies, including audits of SONEES' accounts, which
would be imonitored by the Government's Auditing Commission (Commission de
Verification des Comptes et de Controle des Etablissements Publics); this
Commission is entrusted with supervising audits of public and mixed enter-
prises in the country, and is already monitoring satisfactorily the audits
financed by the ongoing IDA Technical Assistance Project for the Para-Public
Sector (Credit 764-SE, US$6.3 million, 1978).
44.       Execution of drilling works would be carried out under contracts
awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines.  All technical assistance and consulting services would be
employed under contracts and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
The consultants' reports on the feasibility studies would be submitted in
draft to permit review by the Government and the Association, and incorpora-
tion of their comments into the final version. The consultants' conclusions
and recommendations on sector organization, management, and finances would be
discussed between the Government and the Association, and agreed recommenda-
tions would be implemented in consultation with the Association. The financial
studies would be carried out by an international accounting firm under terms
of reference acceptable to the Association; the selected consultants would be
expected to work in association with a Senegalese accounting firm.
45.       The proposed financial studies would cover the records of SONEES
(including small investments and renewal funds), the fixed assets owned by the
Government, and debt service for the water and sewerage sector administered by
the Government's General Amortization Fund. The studies would include audit
and consolidation of sector accounts and financial statements (income state-
ments, balance sheets, and flow of funds statements) for the year 1978 and 1979,
and would make recommendations for improving accounting procedures and internal
control. The consultants would also be expected to establish the present value
of sector assets currently in service by calculating their replacement value
less depreciation.
46.       All the arrangements detailed in paras. 43-45 above were discussed
and agreed during negotations (Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). A detailed work program for execution of the proposed
studies which was also discussed at negotiations, was recorded in the agreed
minutes of negotiations.
Disbursements
47.       Credit proceeds would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of tlhe foreign exchange cost (and 77% of
local costs) of geophysical and drilling works;



- 16 -
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (and 77% of
local costs) of consulting services for studies; and
(iii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance experts, including recruitment costs.
Project Benefits and Risks
48.       The proposed project would make an important contribution to helping
the Government achieve its long-range objectives of organizing and strengthen-
ing the water supply and sanitation sector. It would do this by allowing prep-
aration of a priority project for possible Bank Group financing, and through
studies leading to establishment of appropriate institutional arrangements,
technical standards, and financial policies. Specifically, the feasibility
studies would provide Government with viable proposals for the creation and
expansion of water supply systems in several of the main secondary centers of
the country; the technical assistance component would help DGHER establish the
technical capacity for planning a rational approach to sector investments in
urban and rural water supply and sanitation.
49.       The project faces no special risks.  Detailed terms of reference
for the feasibility and sector organization studies and the work program for
all components of the project were discussed during negotiations in order to
minimize the risk of the studies not meeting project objectives and assurances
were obtained that these will be followed. The Government is keenly interested
in this project, and its full support will be needed in implementing recom-
mendations from the various studies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 17 -
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 11, 1979



- 18 -                                             ANNEX I
SPEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RZFnENCE GROUWS (ADJUSTED AVELAGES
SUUMAL                                                    LA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - OST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            196.2                                                     SAue         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      80.0                                  IOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 jb    1970 /bk ESTIMATE Lb       RIEGION /c   GROUP d    GROUP L/
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  200.0        270.0     420.0             223.6      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      121.0       139.0      195.0             86.7       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.4         4.4        5.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7          29.0      30.2             13.6        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY                                        -
PER SQ. KM.                        17.0         22.0      27.0              18.4       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      43.0         55.0      66.0             53.6        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.6         41.2      44.2             44.4        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          53.6        54.9       52.7             52.7        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.8          3.9       3.1              2.8         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1          2.6       2.7              2.6         2.7          2.5
URBAN                               3.5          5.0       4.0               5.8        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0         47.6      47.6             46.9        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.5         24.4      20.0             20.6        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.0       3.1               3.1        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..              2.5        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             151.5        100.0     139.4             94.2       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.0         91.0      97.0             90.1        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.0         64.0      67.1             55.2        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         16.6 /f   20.8              17.1       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..         85.0        ..    .           ..        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9          40.0      44.0              43.7       53.3         57.2
;;, .i MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           193.0           .,     158.0            138.4        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..             22.4       31.1         56.8
URBAN                                ..         87.0         ..            66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             10.4       18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              23.9       37.5         30.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             70.3       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             14.2       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          35000.0      16640.0   13470.0          21757.5      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4110.0 /    2610.0    1350.0            3473.8      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             940.0        810.0      730.0            645.4      786.5        493.9
tJRBAN                               *-        390.0     380.0             172.9      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                ..       1300.0    1156.0            1292.6     1358.4       2947.9
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.2       26.7             19.2       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              4.9         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              5.0         ..          5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              4.7         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..          ..         2.0
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..        2.3           1.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..          ..        67.8
RLURAL                               ..           ..         ..               ..        10.3         34.1



- 19-                                            ENEX I
Pogo 2
SUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S5H T
RnUTiCI GROUPS (ADJUSTED AViAES
S11RGAL                                               A
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAMZ      IT F!VCOU
IOST RECECi     GCOGAPIC   IlCOME CtlC      Is
1960 L      1970 &  ESTDIMAT Lk     RCION La  CEtOP Li   QOUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMRY:    TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      40.0            52.1       75.8        99.8
FEiALE               17.0        33.0      32.0            37.6       67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0        11.0      13.0             8.0       17.7        33.8
FEHALE                2.0         6.0       8.0             5.0       12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0        9.0       10.0             7.2        7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             4- 43.0             49.0            43.2       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                        34.0         29.0      22.0            22.8       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.6 1h     10.0      10.0            20.3       63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                        6.0         9.0        9.2             3.9        7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        47.0        69.0      66.0            40.1       71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS l'ER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       8.0             2.2       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  6.0         5.0       7.0             3.9       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..        1.2             1.2        1.6         4.6
EiPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1300.0      1600.0    1650.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                  39.7        39.1      38.8            32.6       28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.6        73.0        *-            73.3       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.4         6.6        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.6        44.3      42.8            42.0       37.8        33.8
MALE                                56.7        54.5      53.0            54.8       50.3        48.1
FDULE                               36.8        34.3      32.8            27.3       20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.2       1.2             1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBIITION
PERCENT OF PitlVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS   36.8 L        *-        *-            25.7       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5 /i      ..         ..            55.1       48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2 /t       ..        ..             5.8        5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4  j       ..        ..            14.5       15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..L..o..s108.8                                155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      70.0            74.1       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     151.0           124.4      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..     117.0            59.6       87.3       197.7
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0            26.8       22.9        19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      30.0            47.6       36.7        35.1
Not availatble
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjuisted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries almnit the
indicators depends on availability of data and im not unifors.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; akd for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c   Africa South of Sahara;  Id  Lower Middle Incom   ($281-550 per capita. 1976); le  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);  tf  1972; L&  1964; /h  African population only; Li Population.
September, 1978



- 20 -                                                               AN             
lEIilNJ IlIONS OlF SOCIAL. 5iNDCATflb:nwu
HU": Tihe adjusted grou.p averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, e-clding the extreme values of the indi-ator and the mo.nt
populat,ed cou.ntry in each grou.p.  Coverge of countries amoong the indicator. depend. on availabIlIty of data and is not uniform.   Due to lask of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and Indicators of access to water and excreta disposal,1 hous Ing, incom distribution and poverty are
efaple..P p lt [00-n -wighted geome.tric moans without the excinton, of extreme, value.
LAND AREA (thouaand sq. ha)                                                               Population por hospital bed - total, urban. arkd rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area, and Inland waters,                        urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bade
A,gricultural - Moent recent estimate of agricultural are&a ued tamporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanentl y for crope., Pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation contere.  Hoapitala are astabliabments Permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                             at leasat one physician.  Establishisen to providing principally custodial
care aLre not Included. Rural hospitals, however. incluade health and medi-
C;NP Nkf11 CAP lTA 3lnj- GNP' per capita estimates at current macbet prices.                cal centaer  not permanently staffed by a physicianL (but by a medical as-
calculated by .am. co-ersion method on World Banb Atlas (1975-77 basie);                 destent, nurse. midw,ife, etc.) wehich offer in-pattiest accommodation amd
[960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissionns to or discharges
ENERGY5 CONSUMPTfION PERt CAPITA - Annual consumption of romercia1 energy                   from hoapitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural ga. and hydro-. nuclear and geo-
thermal el-ctrIinty) in bilograms  of coal equivalent Per capita.                   HOUSING
Average a Ise of household (persons por hoosehold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION ANll VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consiste of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Tot,Sl_p2ul.tlon, eid-,Yar (ilon)- A,. o  Jiuly 1; It nor available.                       end their eels  -ele.  A boarder or lodger my or may not be inrluded In
average 0Tru,  o-yoat esi-te.l; lOhi). 1914), and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical  purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urbn ppullo. (Percent 0t total)_ - eal1.o Of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
Elon  diift.nn.t deiinitl... of orb n areas may affect comparability                  Avrge numberj  pesoafe  roomN  ~          LocalI.  urban, an  ru-1l - Average, num-
of data among count ries,                                                                ber of persona per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conve.ntional
Pop uIa tIoRn_ deni_ty                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permenment structures and
Par   q  k. - Mid-year population par square kilometer (100 hectanes)                     ..noccupied parts.
of total are.                                                                         Acs   oeetiiy(preto   wlig)-toa,ubn   n   ua
Par sq. be. agriculture land - C,omputed ox above far agricultorl land                    Convetional  dweellings with electricity in living quant... as percen.tage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respertiv,ely.
Population age_structure (~percent) - Children (0-li years). working-age
115-64n years). aod retired (65 years and over) ans percentages of aid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     AdJuet.d enrollment ratios
Populatio 1n .gy.outh rae(ece!)ttal  sd urban - toepound annu al                         Primary school - total. and female - Total end female enrollment of all ages
growth r-ten of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at toe primary level sa. percentages of respectively primary school-age
196G-70. and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years hut adjusted for
Crude birth rote (per thousanid) - Annual lIve births per tit.....nd of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year popuiation; ten-year urlthntic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may excee d 100 p-eret since noes Pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 Iur moot recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (par thousa.nd) - Annual deaths per thousan.d of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Computed ax above; secondary sduca-
year population; ceon-year arithmetic averagna ending in 1960 end 1970                   tion requires at lneat four years of approved primary instructionl Pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recant estimate.                           vides general vocational. or teacher training instructinon. for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will hear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
In her normal -eproductiv- period If she ..peri.n-e  pr-aco  sge-                        included.
sPecific fertility rates; usua.lly lice-year aeasending in 1960.                      Vocational en-rient (percen.t of secondary) - Voca.tional lo-titutions 10-
1970. and 1975.                                                                          clude tsi,ic d,inutrial. or other programs which operat  independently
Family  ljjsnnina - acCeptors, annual  j,hu  daos  - Annoal number of                      or xu departments of secondary Institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices uoder auspices of national  family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stuents enrolled In
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the cerre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Prereenrge of                         spending levels.
married womn of child-bearing age (15-i44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of eli food commodities.                                     seating lose than eight personal excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicle..
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
Per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thou-and of population; excludes unlicsne..d
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers In countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may net be comparable since mo.st countries
quir.e.et. were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for noir-               abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering nionotltemperature, body                         TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genaert
weights, age and se. disitributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV  -esivsr. is coun-
cent for ...ste at household level.                                                      triea and in years when registration of rV sets was In effect.
Per cpita  _uppl_y of protein .(jr~am  jiec dA,yl - protein content of per             Newspaper cIrculation (per thousand population_) - Shows tihe  v-rg.  Icirrla-
caPIta net supply of food per dsp.  N,.t supply of food Is defiload as                   tlon of 'daily general interest newspaper,"  defined a. a 1riodlca1 publi-
abov.-   Requirements for all countries  ast.blished by USDA provida far                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It E. considered tO
a elnimum,alunc  of hi grsmn of total prLotin par day and 20 igrams                     be "daily" if it appear  a  least f.o. times .n week.
,f animal and noIse protein. ,I which IU grams, should b. soisul Protein.            CInema  nnual attendance 1.r_ topics _pcr veer-Po-ed on the  -ub-r 0  t ikchtt
The-s  L-d-rds are Iow.  ithan Lhos  of 7,i grea.  of tctai protein and                 sold daring the psar~. Including ad.i.ta... to, driv--i,, cn-eas  and mob,l,
71 gramns of ennlpro trio  - a,nv o..rage In,  iLhr -n'rd, yr'nsdiy                     units..
FAO iv tine rh,1 d World co,.d vS--o'.
Pe  cpI_,,e  r.tnnisin _*_Wly I. ne  olunI -.nn. puo- o- V-t.n  -~ppIn oi food     II9PLiIY5iiP
deri~vd trn,e  nanim    -ld put... in grass I.., Joy.                                Total lIAb-r lp.tce (thousanqds) .                        ponmnal   ,  c..y....n. I.,cudlsg -med
Chid  scn1-4)_Rprt.aiiy rae(prtosn)- Aunn-al deaths P.r those-                             forces and unemployed but -urluding inueitn idoi.1.  Defini-
and in ago gr-p i-4 Year,. to children in. thins ago group.                             tiont in eari.u. countries   nrsot comparabl-.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as ipsrcentagn- f total labor force
HEALTH                                                                                  Azricultnnro_(pyrSent) - Labor force In farming, fores.try, hunting and fisihing
Life exp~ctanc.y at birtih  Ayap-Aor.ae number of yearn ol Ii!.                          as percs.t.. o..f total labor force.
remaining at birth; usua lly five-yea r av-rgee ending in 1960. 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor forc  in mining, construction, manufacturing  and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity. water and gsaas .percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (par thousan d) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participstlon rate (percent) - total, male, sod femle - Total, male.  and
one year of age per thousand live birhtn.                                               female labor frce as percentagex of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   these are TLO.'  adjusted participation rates reilecting  g-..e
Niher of people (total, urban, sod rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population. ond Ioorj ttie trend.
sae water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   tconomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 und h5 sod o-ve  to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borehole., springs                     the labor forcs in age group  fi 15-64 yeses.
and sanitary w.lls) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a Public fountain or standpoint located not more                   INCOSME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private Income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
.onabla access of that house. *.In rural areas ra....nable access would                 percent. richeet 20 percent. pooea.t 20 percent, and poorest h0 per,cent
imply that the in-sw"ifa or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
sPend a diepropertionnt. part of th. day in fetching cbs family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal__(percent, of Population) - total, uirban, and              Estimaoted absolute poverty income level (US$ pee  capit.) - urban and rura  -
rural - Number of People Itotal. urban. and rurI) o-rvd by secrets                        Absolut. povrty income I-vel is that in-ome level belou which a  ii.
disposal as percentages of thni r respective populatione.  Exorret                      nutritionally adequate diet plu  essen..tial non-food requiroesots is not
disposal may include the co11ctico and disposal.  icih or without                       affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and Walte..w.ter by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (iS$ per capita) - yyban and rural-
or the use of pit privies and siia   nstallations.                                      Relativ- poverty Income level is that income level less than one-third
Ponu_lat!_on psf Jhy_alcla  - fP.ulst ion dividad by nunber of yrciicPer capita p.r.o.e. income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medIcl  onnl   at univaralty local.                      fEtiested ponltinbowocrynomleeJecn)-nbnadrus-
Populatlo    ___aer nnn aif5pro  - ouuinn   bddb  nuber of                            P.rc.ot uf populuti-ntra  and rur all who are eitiher ",nbn-ut. poor' or
practicing asIa and female grad 0cr nurt-. proctlc-I nurse., and                        "relatIv- poor' whichever is greater.
Econom1c and Smoial Data Division
Economic Analysia and Projections Department 



SQZGL.  -  ICOMIC IVtpC   AASE                                                                                       m 
Louts                                      IdsssUt".                          Pr3oianmGot  eat.. 0                                      dl)l     1985s0.t .9tta
17 191 172      U73    1074    1973            1076l   197       jj            122      12       IS        1           1970-75      1lz           m r   959             97      11      11        s        s
(is billions of 1971 CPA')
1. -ofr    247   263 f1 32                                                            li           2    2            21           1         1 306            491             I-          LA          LA        Li2         "I, IN1  nl   I"  Iti
2.1Ydointj                                          -       -3       -l                 5          -0 -2                            -S       5        6        4---                                               -02 ..                     33       ..
3.    1         248      247      260      246      265      281          207~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;,o  788  248'  -,       9 8-2.                              2.3         4.6       3.9        180.0  190.0   100.0   190.9   100.0
4.  Ilorto(Nc IS0)                         85      82       BB       84       85       06          105        98      100          502      15       128      160            0.2          4.1         4.0       4.6         34.2   30..       33      -22      3.
3.  Engori. (inc. 990)       72      64       0~~~~~           ~~~~2 64  6 77         9        88        2            03      102      123      153            1.2          0.8         3.8       4.3        38.1   27.4      3.         09      3.
6.  8p.Pts, Tt  d)                         73      6447              6        74       70            7       8        4                      9       11       145.3                       42          4.9       4.4         29.3 236.7    39.2    29.4    30.0
7.  ns. sp, Tr  adj.                      -12      10        -9     -2       -1        1             1      -13       -31          .14      .13      .41      .15---                                              -4.                 .9      41      -27       4.
8.   oS..  tl                             321      22       I25     223      23       252          260      239      254           247      274      344      41             2,7          1.7         4.7       4.0         69.3   89. 7     87.P'    86.4    86.5
9.  Gross inv.a~~~~~~or         39~      4       64       4        49       4             40      4         23804                          60       s             0.1          6.2         3.7       4.2         10.6   14.2    17.1       14.7    26.4
10    notstvso                              19      17       24       17       2        15            14      17        21          Z21       20       20       24           -4.6          5.9          -         3.7         7.6    5.3       8.3      0.0      5.0
11.  PoOlic 1ovso~~~~~~~nt       12       14       2       1         8       11 20                           1            2        29       39       48            9.6          8.          4.61      4.2          4.8    4.8~    9.2       89.8      9.9
12. sogninio k.                              0        9       a        II5     1                       5        5     -15                      51       6701-57.3-                                                  S         3.2   20.1      1.8      1 .3    13.7
13.  Pina_C~le Saig,T   d.                  27       22      35       23       38       24            22       30      .4            54       41       54       65             1.          71          57         38         107 103          13.       36      1.
14.aIoa avins, Tr1"I3.              32      30       4        2        39       30           28       31      I-             44       43       54       65           -12           7. 4        4.7       3.8         13.9   10.7    12.7    133.6    1  5.
1).  (In tIn, of current 5)          86        9      05      1 2491   140'9    196           191      131    254            2675    3011    0004    77                  70          97          1.          .                                        
1.  Valu  addo                           247      247      263      248      259      283          297      291      251           306      323     404       491            2.8          2.8          A  4.40.            j5.     J5Jj   30   100.    15.1
2.  Agriceltnrn            ~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~~~~~62  52  64  54  66 8      9       8         8           8        94      112      132             5.4         5.0          5.5       3.5        25.1   3.        28.9    27.7    24.9
3.  Industry                               55      54       16       54       61       61            47      70       5             71       70      14       13              2.9         35          7.6       6.0         21.5   21.3    24.3    28.2    31.2
4.  PrOe   orvi-s                         103      112I    114      1it      104      112           111      109       9'2         114      120      14       167             1.3         1.4         3.0322.    39.6    36.9    35.6    34.0
5.  Inhij   srvi..s                        27       29      29       29       24       29            30       31       32           22       52       35       59             1.4         2.0         2.0        2.0        109      0.       99       87       78
C.  P828 INDICES (1971.100)
1.Eprt pren  (go.oly                   2      10       100      02       221      192          166      192      184           196      599     296       377           15.9          0.I.                   5.0
2.  lap. r  poes                           9       150     107      129      19       198          194      202      197           214      233      210      406            16.0         .36.                   50
J.  7o    ofcrd                           101      100      94       94       116      987           85       95       391                   85       937      9             -0.8        -.             . 
4. GMdf  .to                               97      100     104      112      131      144          154       163     1ff)          59       204      22       3488.                       7.2         6.0        5.0
_.ioor priooI96                                 150      106      119      139      181          186      204      212           26      2372               0             1.             .           .0        60..
8.  1us   tnts i pis99                             101      06I     154      136      566           167      180      19           200      223      312      430            10.9         6.-          70I.
7.  Etch. ont  (CrA P pr 0.S.9)             277.707.    252.2   222.7   248 .5   214.3           239.0   245.7   220.0           20.0   224.0   220.0   220.0                  -                          
D.  SEINCTED tSINSCTon'1960/65   1945/70   1970/7A   1975/Odi  1O4L0 98 .  uAp...sgF  (1970)                                                                                                                               2bfm        1u81t
1. lWh6                                4.2        9.1         53.        4.4        4.0                                                                                                  1.  Agrtoultor                  812       69.4
7. Al. nat. saings rat.                   7.3        0.2       13.5        9.2       14.3                                                                                                  2.  H5o1s      ri                 2        0.
2. ViAr  -E   saving. mm.                ns       t 10.9       -5.6       31.0       13.3                                                                                                  3.  Wnufs.tuln                   69        09
4 .L.ne    Issn/c                     15.8       10.2       13.5        15.2       14.8                                                                                                  4.  ftblin- oilititn              4        0.
5.  Ingost slasticlty                    0.82        29         O.k        1.0        0.99                                                                                                  5.     ntntln1                              .
6.  laorts/GO                           4.          35.        53.5       34.4       32.26. risssrcs                                                                                                                       1590
7.  Exports/ISP                         32.0        24.1       27.8       28.2       29.0                                                                                                   7.  Public sarvi...            127       10.9
S.  &..ft.00  g. D                       6.5       -1.7        -5.7       -6.1       -3.2                                                                                                  S.  Othar                        _24      2.L1
1.  nate  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       Total                   1 170       100.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tat117   0.
and fiscal psars)             fill~~PY7  7Y72      FY73                          H71 .2          Y77        F2              EflI       FNsa        gf,                     PP7I-7,5  P175-O   708-83         fj       fZ .5                      A W
1. .dgnt rovosus                            46.4      53.1      53.1      55.4      77.3      87.9            106.5      116.5            222.4      123.8       176.9      271.0          13.6      15.0      11.7        19.0    20.7    22.9    24.9    23.8
2.Crsrs.  4(olits t                            223      M         502 3L    41.1       ",       80.2             11-2       99L)            14&        138         151        kLl            1..16               1.          2.        L        L                 1
3.bdg a.  bofors ds~j snenica                  4.1       8.0       4.0       6.5      11.5       7.7             24.3       27.068                      42.0        510        7.-                                  -17                31       52       6,       7.5
4.  Othr ,public soni'-                        12       L1        LA4        7.2       0.3       Li              LA8         1.8            IlaP        .2.0       -6.7      -14.6                                           1  -06   9f 1     1_      -0.3    -1-4
5.  Pbl. sanb. haoes dbt  uee                  5.6      10.2       7.2      13.7      11.8       9.1             30.1        18.0            -0.9        40.0       45.1       63.9            -                               .3      3.2      6.5      6.4      8.1
6.  Dsbt ssreic                                Ll          i          8      15         82 07                    13.0        16.0            21.3        27-1       3211       3.            12.5      46.7       4f 6         2       Id       13!      A        1-i
7 .  Ssvsatsblo sorplo.103.1                             8.       ~                              0.4             17.1         20-23.0                                                                                                           la,1.  XI-"   14 1 k   4
I.  Public Icvostasnts       ifl       IT       1~~~~T    ~~4       3!5        4ff'~           ?T"         ir              n:u         IW T                  52            28.3      14.3       11 5        33A                                 H
9.  Paratgs of self Iloseiog (I)              24.0      08.4      33 5      30.4      22 3       0.1             37.6         4.2              Mil       18.7       1550       21.0
10.Dht sorvico In poecont of
C%stss()                            5.4       2.1       3.3       4.5       5.2       9.9             12.2       14.4             17.7       15.8       16.4        11.0
Ths.. projectIons s.n-  that the fitatoisi *tailliotio  pIns chiob Goo-eet Is pross..tly dn... LOSp .1th the CEP out1 ho sffotivoly ioplostsd.
Th. high-r -oooni  goth nod lo-t  I-notnot rats. in thin psrlod-p-ed to th.ns to the p-evIou  pserod is dos co th.os betgs projects (Dian  da, Phosphori  c sd plnt sod Daha  shipyard) whsich will ha ito o-sst-ti
be.0cr. 19S   beil  c_  into _rodoctiot it ths nan0y 1980..
fl  .tniof living LOdSo In Sata-
L4  Calou1atad feo" Vas  in constant pelts..
~~~~~~~~~~4 jostsd foe las   of leads .h.rs approprite.t
4  C.a..olatd on  Wess y-esvss
Li  PlIsol yea.-  fron Poly 1st tc J50. 30th.
Li  lnolods  saigs -o  Stnhilinatio   Food sod public   nsprsn
9  26. sop-ted drop. 1. '.thr  alosis do  to paymts ftso  poblto .cisrprta-  is IiqoIdotiro  and, io Iols- pors, irc.ss-tog nobsidiss to ecisting octsrprisa  (01225 sod eo  sotsrprt.n. (DSa-anaiss5
LLO  Public i-tora tast  as4fisd by ths Wfioitry of PILssong; cont-sy to rho ontioc.al   .. crnts dettolion, thons flres inclode the 0111 cos ts of ptjcc.i51  sin dd ootoeprises in which foesoso  tohos a-JOr financial
en.apooihiliti  projoct cosposts that do sot nope...s.r find copito1 forntioc, rss....ch p-ojacta nod non  nilit-ye sop.ditunas.
Fabr-ye 1979.



SENEGAL:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                       ANNEX I
Page 5
(millions of c-rrent U.S. dollars)
Actuals                                       estimate.                          Projection.
1970     1971     1972      1973   1974    1975              1976     1977     1978             1979      1980      1985
A.   SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports, incl. NFS                                   237       231      333      355      602       693            706      696       621             855        975     1697
2.  Imports, incl. NFS                                  -276      -295     -373     -483      -691     -793           -852      -807     -898            -988      -1109   -1854
3.  Resource balance                                      -39      -64      -40     -128       -89     -100           -146     -111    -2 75             -133       -134    -157
4.  Factor services net                                   -21      -19      -23       -29      -48      -55            -25       -36      -33             -51        -52      -98
Net investment income                          -10       -11      -12      -17      -26       -37            -12      -14       -14             -15        -15      -40
Interest public debt                            -1        -4       -5       -7      -14       -19            -18      -21       -31             -41       -42       -71
Other interest                                  -I         2        3        3         2       -3             -3       -4        -4              -5         -5        -
Worker's remittances                           -16       -15      -20      -18      -20        -6             -4        -5       +3              -4         -4       -2
Other                                             7        9       11        10       10       10             12         8       13              14         14       15
5.  Current transfers net                                  37       45       50        56       64       67              73       46       80               60        73      100
6.  Current account balance                               -23      -38      -13     -101       -73      -88            -98      -101     -228            -124       -113     -155
7.  Private capital (net)                                  -         3         2      -15       -5       12              13       14       15               16        50       60
S.  Capital grants                                         12       19         8       19       19       22             23        24       27               30        33       46
9.  Public M + LT loans (net)                              14       15        11       78       36       56             58        76      178               80        38        89
Disbursements                                   19        23       19      100        56       77             83      114       246             165        154      286
Repayments             /1                        -5       -8       -8      -22       -20      -21            -25       -38      -68             -85       -116     -197
10.  Short-term  captj,al (net)  -                          10       -4      -12         3       23       10              -        -        -                -         -          -
11.  Capital n.e.i.-                                        11        4         7      -28       -3      -22              -6      -26      -26               -         -          -
12,  Incrosse in reserves  (+)                              24       -1         3      -44       -7      -10            -10       -13      -34               2         8         40
13.  Level of reserves (end yer)                            19       17        23      -15      -27      -48            -45       -53      -87             -85       -77         94
Actuals                                       estimates                         Prolections
an/u     is/l     1972       19/A   19/4      1975           1976      1977     1978            1979       1980     1985
B.  LOAN COMMITMENTS                                             8        31       50         16.1   70       135            112       223      277                                  305
1.  IBRD                                                   -        -         16         1       3         7             26       2         11              32         20       43
2.  IDA                                                    2        7         11        24       -        25             10       -         26              24         17       26
3.  OPEC Fund                                              -        -          -         -        -        4              2       11        -                5          6        6
4.  Other international institutions                       -        2          1         2      10         6             11         9       -               10         11       16
5.  France                                                 2        7          7         5      16        13             27       27        2               28         30       44
6. Grmany                                                  2        -          -         -      17         3              -        5        -               10         10       14
7. Canada                                                  -        -          4         3       -         8              4        5        -/4              6          7        9
8.  OPEC Countries                                                             -         26      9                        - 4               41               -         23       25
9.  Other bilateral                                                            3 - L.            4,       21,                      12 l9oP-                 10/11      12       12
10.  0119S (D2isma dam)-                                              - -            -         -       -            -                -        -             1137         -        -
10.  Suppliers                                              2         2         2        14        3        1              3        32       10                -         -        _
12.  Finncial institutions and private banks                -       13          6        80       8        47             28      102       177              10         25      110
C.   LOANS TERMS
1.  Interest  t))                                          3.5      4.9        4.1       5.8    4.7        4.8            6.5       7.8      7.2             5.5        6.0    6.0
2.  Grace (years)                                          8.4      5.0        6.3       6.1      6.3      6..5             -        -        -              4.5        4.0    4.3
3.  Maturity (years)                                      28.1     19.0       30.2       191.8   22.5     23.4           19.1      11.0     13.7            20.0       17.6   18.9
4.  Grant elment C)                                       52.0     35.0       47.0      29.0   39.0    40.0              26.0      13.5    17.7             29.9       28.0   27.1
,.  Debt service ratio C                                   2.5      5.3        3.9       8.2    5.6        6.1            6.1       8.5    15.9             14.7       16.2   15.8
/1  Includes errors and omissions
7/2  Includes SDR sllarions and differences between public capital inflow as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IBRbh debt report.
/3  Includes US$14 million Third Window funds
74  Saudi Arabia
/5  Denmark
/6  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chinese surpluses ($5.2 million disbursed so far)
/7  $4 million from USA and $8 million from Iran.
/8  Includes US$17.4 million commitment from Spain and $3.5 million from Denmark
79  US AID
/10 Spain
/11 An estimated share of 75/R in the $150 million cost of the Diama dam: France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kuwait $35 million, and African Development
Bank $26 million.  Total: $150 million.
February 1979.



SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                  ANlE  I
Page 6
(millions of current US dollars)
Actuals                                        Estimates                         Projections
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975          1976       1977         1978       1979        1980       1985
A.  PIEDIllM AND LONG-TERM
DEBT (Disbursed Only)
1.  Total Public Debt Outstanding                 102.9      125.5      138.6      203.2      248.3      299.0          352.9      440,6        637.6       708.0      746.0      1865
2.  Including Undisbursed                         144.4      173.9      219.2      367.2      432.4    533.7            609.8      812.3       1060.0    1097.0    1197.0'    2386
3.  Public Debt SBrvic                             6.0       12.2       13.4       29.4       33.6       39.8           42.9       58.6         99.3       125.8      157.8       295
a.  Interest                                   1.4         4.3        4.9        7.2       13.9       18.6           18.3       21.0         31.4       40.8        41.9        98
b.  Amortization                               4.6         7.9        8.5       22.2       19.7       21.2           24.6       37.6         67.9        85.0      115.9       197
4.  Other M & LT Debt q,rvice/L                     7.8        6.3        7.4       27.2/2    32.1/2    21.9             21.8       23.7          24.7       29.7       27.9        17
a.  Other Intere:T-                            3.3         0.1        0.4        1.9        4.9        9.5            8.5        9.5          9.5        13.5       10.5         7
b.  Amortization/l                             4.5         6.2        7.0       25.3       27.2       12.4           13.3       14.2         15.2        16.2       17.4        10
5.  Total Debt Service                             13.8       18.5       20.8       56.6       65.7       61.7           64.7       82.3         124.0      155.5      185.7       312
6. Net investment income                           10.0       11.0       12.0       17.0       26.0       37.0           12.0       14.0          14.0       15.0       15.0        20
7.  Total payment on foreign capital               23.8       29.5       32.8       73.6       91.7       98.7           76.7       96.3         138.0      170.5      200.7       332
B.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                       2.5        5.3        3.9        8.2        5.6        5.8            6.1        8.5          15.9       14.7       16.2         15.8
2.  Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio               10.0       12.8        9.8       20.7/2    15.2/2    14.2             10.9        13.8         22.2       19.9       20.6         19.6
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                        !0.7        1.4        1.2        2.4        2.4         2.1           2.2         3.0          4.8        4.7        5.2          7.3
4.  Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue/3              -         5.4        2.1        3.3        4.5        5.2            9.9       12.2          14.4       17.7       15.8         11.0
C.  TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD               A1.4        3.4        3.5        3.5        5.6        6.2            5.2        4.8           4.9        5.8        5.6         5.3
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                   5.8        9.7        9.7       14.5       13.5       13.3           12.2       13.3          15.6       17.8       21.2         15.8
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FORBM N   T T TP'RTL
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)    6.9             7.8        5.1       20.715      8.1        9.7            9.7       14.1          27.4       16.7       13.9         10.6
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                5.1        5.1        2.9       16.1        5.2         7.1           6.8         9.4         19.8        8.1        3.4          4.8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                0.74       0.65       0.58       0.78       0.64        0.73          0.70        0.67         0.72       0.48       0.25         0.31
E.  EXPOSURE/6
1.  IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements            0.5        0.9        1.9        0.7        1.5         9.2           5.7       11.4           4.4        8.7       11.6         12.2
2.  Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements14.9             9.3       23.7        3.9       20.9        24.5          20.2        18.2          9.5       16.7       23.4         18.2
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                              2.2        1.8        1.7        1.4        1.3         3.4           4.1         6.2          5.8        7.0        8.3         10.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                       10.7       12.6       13.1       11.5       14.0        17.9          19.8        20.4         17.6       19.3        21.8        19.4
5.  IBRD Debt Service7Total Debt Service            4.1        3.2        3.0        1.8         1.9        1.9           2.9         3.5          3.7        3.5         3.4         8.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service 4.2             3.7        3.8        2.1         2.5        2.6            3.7        4.5          4.5        4.2         4.0         8.9
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)                                             Outstanding Dec. 31, 1978                               Outstanding December 1985
Amount             Percent                              Amount              Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                   37.2                 5.8                                191.5                10.3
2.  IDA                                                                    75.0                 11.8                              169.2                  9.1
3.  Other Multilateral                                                     40.5                 6.3                                116.0                 6.2
4.  Governments                                                           202.0                31.7                                749.0                40.2
5.  Suppliers                                                              17.1                  2.7                              (
6.  Prefinancing of Public Works                                           15.3                  2.4                              (638.5               (34.2
7.  Private Banks and Financial Institutions                              247.1                38.8
8.  Bonds                                                                    3.4                 0.5                                 1.2                 -
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                              A37*9               13O.0                              1865.4                100.0
o. tral ruDsic M & LT Debt (incl. undisb.)                                1059.9               166.2
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1977-81/DOD end-1976                   177.87.
/1 "Other Debt Service" has been calculated from the balance of payments; interest payments include those on the negative net foreign assets of the banking system and
short-term commercial loans; in view of the amosnt of "other debt service" payments ue estimate total foreign borrowing outside the public sector at the end of
1976 at $100 million.
12 High private capital repayments probably related to Government's participation policy.
/3  Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
/4 Public debt only.
/5 High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
/6 Based so exiating lending program.
February 1979.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1979)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and ten Credits fully disbursed                7.0    34.9
835-SE     1972   Regie des   Railway                  6.4                 0.2
Chemins de
fer du Senegal
336-SE      1972   Senegal      Housing Site
and Services                 8.0        3.1
866-SE      1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                   1.5
366-SE      1973   Senegal      Second Highway                  8.0        0.2
404-SE      1973   Senegal      Agriculture Credit              8.2        0.5
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                   0.2
530-SE      1975   Senegal      Education                      15.0       10.0
549-SE)    1975   Senegal       Agric. Diversifi-
)                           cation              7.0      7.0        8.3
1113-SE)
578-SE      1976   Senegal      Terres Neuves II                2.0       0.3
1221T-SE             Senegal      Feeder Roads           6.6                3.2
1222-SE             Senegal      Third Highway         15.0                5.2
633-SE      1976   Senegal      Livestock                      4.2        3.4
647-SE      1976   Senegal      Second Sedhiou                  6.3       5.0
1332-SE      1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                 3.6
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal      Port of Dakar          6.0                4.8
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                  7.5
1413-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  5.3
764-SE     1978   Senegal       Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3       5.8
775-SE     1978   Senegal       Irrigation                    20.0       19.2
1518-SE     1978   RCFS          Railways III          11.0               10.9
Total                                     86.0   119.9       98.2
of which has been repaid 1/             3.7      0.3
Total now outstanding                     82.3   119.6
Amount sold                                3.4
of which has been repaid 1/             1.1
2.3
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 2/        80.0   119.6
Total Undisbursed                        49.4    48.8       98.2
*    A Loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   As of February 28, 1979.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement: of IFC Investments (as of Februayy 28, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year          Obligor            Type of Business       Loan   Investment:  Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45        1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972) BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export        -          0.87     0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company        -          0.21      0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09      4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.45        0.88      3.33
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 0         1.21      1.21
Undisbursed Balance
C. Projects in Execution
Cr. 314/      Second Railway Project; US$2.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835       Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Tle Railway's efficiency has been severely hindered by poor manage-
ment, a severe shortage of qualified supervisory staff, insufficient motiva-
tion of staff at all levels, deficient training combined with cumbersome
financial governmental regulations hampering day-to-day operations. This
has resulted in a slow and unsatisfactory implementation of a project and
in the inadequate traffic performance that has led to decreasing revenues
and acute financial problems. These financial problems have in turn pre-
vented the Railway from purchasing badly needed spare parts for motive power
and track maintenance equipment. Loan/Credit funds were consequently re-
allocated from appraised items to the provision of spare parts by deleting
some project elements, notably the reduction of the procurement of rails and
fittings from a planned 170 km to 125 km of which only 28 km were laid under
the project because of the lack of local funds. The project is almost com-
pleted. The only unfinished items are the final positioning of the workshop
cranes and the disbursement for the payment of this work. The final super-
vision mission was in the field in July 1978.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September
29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Plot occupancy which started in November 1977, two years behind the
original schedule, continues to be very slow. About 900 houses are in various
stages of construction by allottees and only 50 families are in residence on
the site, despite the start-up of an Immediate Action Plan focussing princi-
pally on the first tranche, which was developed during Spring 1978 to remedy
the situation and which was endorsed by the Government. The newly appointed
Minister of Urbanism and the Project Director visited Headquarters in the Fall
of 1978 for discussions with Bank staff to remedy the situation. Agreements
were reached on the ceiling and terms of building material loans for eligible
allottees, and design standards of housing unit for the poorest of the project
population, and the restructuring of the Project Unit to deal with the last
phase of the project.
Cr. 404      Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 18, 1973; Closing Date:
May 31, 1979
The 1978/79 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached near record levels; fertilizer use, after falling to 70,000 tons in
1977/78, increased to 100,000 tons. Demand for short-term credit remained
stronger than anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to
meet requirements. Demand for medium-term credit is still not met because
of Government's desire to limit cooperative indebtedness. As a result, on-
farm intensification programs are failing to reach their objectives. Govern-
ment is re-introducing the subsidy on some farm implements, and increasing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The study of fertilizer applications financed
under the Credit is now completed; ongoing data analysis should provide a
basis for policy review in due course. Major organizational and financial
problems still exist at the groundnut marketing entity: steps taken by Gov-
ernment in early 1975 and again in mid-1978 to remedy this serious situation
have resulted in some limited improvement in accounting, but overall perforr-
ance remains poor and the organization overstaffed. The Government has agreed
in principle to make some of the outstanding Credit balance available to
finance preparation of a proposed Agricultural Research Project. The closing
date has therefore been extended until May 31, 1979 to permit the necessary
administrative arrangements.
Loan 987     SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979;
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. By
March 31, 1978 SOFISEDIT had approved 37 loans, net of cancellations, total-
ling about US$10.2 million, and 8 equity investments for US$650,000. The
first loan of US$3 million is now fully committed and the remaining balance
of $200,000 should be disbursed shortly.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 866      Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 Million Loan of D,cemaber 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 3L, 1979
The project is designed to improve the quality of the telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of North Senegal. Delay in procurement,
a 100 percent cost overrun, changes in top management and improper timing of
project execution are the main causes of a three year delay in project imple-
mentation. As a result the closing date has been postponed to Decemlber 31,
1979. Project implementation is now progressing satisfactorily, the main
installation was successfully commissioned in December 1978, and project com-
pletion is expected by June 1979. During 1978, the Borrower made significant
efforts to improve its management, as well as its accounting and financial
organization. This, together with the audits and financial advisors financed
through the IDA Parapublic Sector Project, should lead to substantial improve-
ment of the institution during the coming months.
Cr. 366      Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. As of July 1978,
95 percent of the Project had been completed. The strengthening program was
reduced from 110 km to about 34 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during project execution. The reduced pro-
gram was satisfactorily completed in May 1976. The remaining 75 km were
strengthened under the Third Highway Project (Ln. 1222). The highwaLy main-
tenance program ended in June 1977. Due to management problems and insuf-
ficient allocation of funds, objectives were not met, and the technical
assistance was extended to June 30, 1978 under the Third Highway Project.
The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the review of
feeder road requirement have been successfully completed. The closing date
of the credit has been extended to December 31, 1979 to compensate for the
one year delay in project completion.
Cr. 530      Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is about 30 months behind schedule because of
design and contract award delays. Total project costs are estimated at $26.5
million, compared with the appraisal estimate of $19.0 million. The Govern-
ment has decided to reduce the scope of the project by reducing the number of
science centers from 11 to 8 and the number of rural youth training centers
from 30 to 15, and is seeking another external source of finance for the
construction and equipping of the Hotel School. The Vocational Training
Center has started some upgrading programs and was expected to be fully
operational by mid-1979. Construction of the science centers and secon-
dary schools is progressing well and is expected to be completed between
September and December 1979. The rural youth training program is progres-
sing slowlY, but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government and it is expected thtat 15
experimental centers will be operating by the end of 1981.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. 549/     Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113     US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of strengthening the extension service to
induce farmers to intensify their agricultural practices, which is estimated
to lead to higher yields. However, results over the project's first three
years show that yield increases have been negligible. The project authority,
in agreement with the Bank, has therefore decided on a re-orientation in which
its extension services are being reorganized and retrained, with more emphasis
put on actions which have had favorable results such as the promotion of maize
production in the South and the integration of agricultural and animal hus-
bandry in the North. While it is too early to judge the effect of this re-
orientation, the first serious effort with the production of millet and maize
under contract proves to be highly successful in the 1978/79 season.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of: (i) settling 600 families over a three
year period in Eastern Senegal and providing the necessary infrastructure;
and (ii) preparing a master plan for the agricultural development of the
Eastern Senegal Region. Despite the project being one year behind schedule
with 500 families settled to date, which has no serious consequences, pre-
viously expected cost overruns could be avoided. The project has, however,
serious financial problems because first, disbursement of counterpart funds
has been seriously delayed and second, the 1978-1979 budget was not being
entirely funded. The master plan study has been completed and an Eastern
Senegal Agricultural Development Project based on this study is now being
prepared.
Ln. 1221T    Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing feeder roads; purchase of
highway equipment and spare parts, and of materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production (BPP).
The project has experienced serious delays, the main reasons being of finan-
cial, managerial and logistic support order. Government is seeking some
measures to accelerate works, but even so it is envisaged that the Loan
closing date will have to be postponed by 2 years, and that the improved
road length will be less than expected at appraisal. Works executed so far
are of satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 199 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment



- 29 -
ANNEX; II
Page 6
studies, highway maintenance and development of the domestic construction
industry.  The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.  The road
maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under
this project, should be further continued under the proposed Fourth Highway
Project to strengthen the road maintenance organization and operations. About
US$2.5 million of the Bank loan will accrue to the project due to dollar reval-
uation (US$1 = CFAF 225 at appraisal and CFAF 245 during project execution),
and shorter execution period for the pavement strengthening program. The
Government is prepariag proposals for the utilization of these fundis.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project aims at improving livestock production in Eastern Senegal
through improved grazing and herd management practices of pastoralists, devel-
opment of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal health
services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel financ-
ing was obtained from the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementation is
progressing on schedule. The 1976/77 and 1977/78 vaccination campaigns pro-
ceeded satisfactorily; the 1978/79 campaign was to start in November 1978.
Thirteen Pastoral Units covering 3200 km2 or 1/5 of the project area have been
demarcated, 64 villages and 5200 inhabitants have been organized through the
election of managing committees, and concrete action with 23,000 cattle has
started. The inventory of all existing wells and ponds in the grazing scheme
area has been completed as well as the siting of 29 wells, of which. 5 are
under construction. Vehicles and equipment have been purchased and firebreak
construction is expected to start soon. On the other hand, there has been no
progress in civil works, certain project activities are not yet fully integ-
rated with those of the executing agency, SODEFITEX (garage, accounting), and
SODEFITEX must prefinance companies under BADEA and Kuwait Fund financing.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 981
The project aims at improving crop production through (i) yield
increases and (ii) increases in farm size by the use of animal traction.
Due to lowr rainfall, yields remained below appraisal estimates. However,
groundnut production exceeded forecasts while foodgrain production was sub-
stantially lower (40-70 percent of appraisal estimates). The actual results
of the 1978-79 campaign are not yet known but should be good given the ade-
quate rainfall. Results of the livestock component are disappointing up to
now and a consultant has been called upon to review this component. The
project had major financial problems because counterpart funds were not made
available by Government. This problem has been temporarily resolved through
a special loan from the Senegalese Treasury. Work on the development plan
for the Casamance Region by the project's planning unit is now completed, with
a 5-month delay.



-30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1332     Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with credit for investments in
industry and tourism, the Second SOFISEDIT Loan is financing a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese businesses and artisans through SONEPI,
the local industrial promotion agency. SOFISEDIT's use of the Second Loan
has been slower than anticipated with only $600,000 disbursed as of February
28, 1979.
Ln. 1405T    Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The civil works are progressing satisfactorily, but costs will
increase because marine quality cement has now to be imported. Exoneration
of project from further taxes may possibly offset these increases, but some
adjustment of the financing plan could be necessary later. Traffic has in-
creased significantly, particularly phosphate exports, tuna transshipment,
and oil products. Port operations have been normal. The container facilities
and port master plan study has commenced and consultants for fishing port oper-
ations and fishing sector study are being appointed. Statistics and accounts,
including introduction of analytical accounting, are considerably in arrears
due to difficulties of staff and tardiness of the Government computer centers.
Bank is urging and assisting Government and the Port authorities to resolve
the problems, which will almost certainly intensify unless remedied early.
The Port's finances have improved appreciably due to tariff increases and
increased traffic. The Port's general performance is satisfactory and the
project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Ln. 1412T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413     Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
All project implementing agencies are expeditiously carrying out
early project implementation which includes preparation of final design and
bidding documents for the project works, and awarding of construction con-
tracts. Construction of infrastructure were expected to begin in January
1979; construction of common facilities in June 1979; and renovation works
in Goree Island in December 1979. Promotion of hotel investments in the
project area is expected to yield its first results by June 1979. Two hotel
investors are interested in using the executing agency's equity funds for
their projects and negotiations are advancing to this effect.
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance; supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, establishment of a training center and supply of training equipment and
training studies. Delay in effectiveness and change in the scope and location



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
of the track rehabilitation component resulted in delayed implementation. How-
ever, the project is now progressing satisfactorily and bids have been called
for all items to be procured under ICB. Traffic and operating performance
improved during the first two quarters of 1978 mainly as a result of the com-
petence and mctivation of newly appointed Senegalese staff and French technical
assistance. This encouraging trend was temporarily reversed by two heavy
train accidents which completely destroyed two locomotives and the collapse
of a small briLdge which halted international traffic for about two weeks.
Extended utiliLzation of Malian locomotives in Senegal, the purchase of two
heavy Canadian locomotives and the delivery of project financed spare parts
will help the Railway overcome its problems and reach its traffic objectives.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The main objective of the Project is the strengthening and the
improvement of the Government's departments in charge of monitoring the
development and day-to-day management of the para-public sector in order
to help meet the sector's medium and long term targets. To achieve this
objective the project comprises (a) the provision of four advisors to the
Financial Controller of the Presidency and of two advisors to the Ceniter
for Public ErLterprises of the Ministry of Finance over three years; (b) the
carrying-out of three successive annual financial and economic audits and
the reorganization of budget, financial and accounting procedures of four key
public enterprises and three mixed companies; and (c) the provision of two
advisors over three years to the Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes to improve
this department's capacity to train managers and accountants of the sector's
public enterprises and mixed companies. The advisors under parts (a) and (c)
of the project arrived in the field in late 1978 and early 1979. The audits
provided under part (b) are well underway.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
The Credit became effective on schedule, June 30, 1978. The Debi-
Lampsar Engineering Credit (S18-SE) was refinanced and its undisbursed balance
will be disbursed directly from Credit 775-SE. The project is still in the
procurement stage and physical implementation started in December 1978. Since
civil work equipment are already on the spot, the delay in starting execution,
estimated at 6 months, is expected to be made up for during project execution.
A joint IDA/FAC mission assessed the project authority SAED's managerial com-
petence and will shortly submit detailed recommendation designed to strengthen
the project authority's performance.
Ln.          Second Aviation Project - US$7.0 Million Loan; Not yet signed;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport and
of installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring airports.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Bank mission to consider the project: July 1977
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Government
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1978
(d) Date of completion of negotiations: March 1979
(e) Planned Effectiveness: June 1979
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Government will not make any additional invest-
ment (1) in the sanitation sector and (2) for water
supply systems in cities with more than 5,000 inhabit-
ants during execution of the proposed project without
prior consultation with the Association (para. 33);
(b) the Government will implement agreed recommenda-
tions on sector organization, management, and
finances of the water supply sector in consulta-
tion with the Association (para. 44).
(c) all technical assistance and consulting services will
be employed under contracts and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association (paras. 44-45);



IBRD    11470R
/          ;                     ~~~~~~~~~~M  A Ui R I T A                       I;    A       -              i       .A -ER                                                        \           1
SPANISHSA J
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                                       M - f
- -  - R egiontl boundtries                  fJ  A G                                                                                                                                                  1i.
Departmentul boundars es 
*    NOtionot capital                                                                                                                                                                          IROL
Rives                                                                        -  -  -  - 4                                   -
Wommernit nstreams                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENINo-.  gtr\,     -  t,,;  C W E
o  ,        0 4O  4   , 6  80 d, 10- ,_'u_                                                                                                                     ''
KILOMEtTERS                    ,               sR  //Ec    G                     I   O   N,-t<i 
0          l                                                          -- *C  - j/-- -  -'                                                                                                        L       A     ,  I
MILES
/     J            \                 |         O I     F                                      p-/ \.a                                                         
Atantic                            , R E G    0 O  N                                                                           (
REGION O            TiF ounI O         _                   D     I          u    R    B    E                                                                                                 iL
CAP-VERT--\   ,_  I '--e           I                          Mb.Cke
DAA,i-T;\ H                                       I E  S  0_
DA<7t7                   QE 'Bour  F    Fituck                                                                                            -'-
J R E G  ,6ON'  O F   S I NE-SAL UM                                                                                                  A  L 0
\   \                                             g cc     Ktfie  f                  )                                                                     'IJ     
-14 /y,.Je7 ,~~~~~~~/                                                            <                                        Koum penlouns   >( 
S~~~~~~~~~~~F"    1- Niro                                                                                                                                                       M  A-=%  fXoud    ,'  /-      
R    E           I      E 0                    A
A   A   2
*so~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~ SIer_                                    E~  G       A    L  
R    E~~~~~~G  OF           C0   A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    AM   A ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                         R         E         CE-A        J
floaoioihaa  arprapalfdby rOe  )S      S       ~Vel,ng.
~  ?BanGOt d                                                                                      C    E_  
WardGaffta*s aloffrttwartmt/ttrrhe t oodua C'5rirr vnc@j           ?. Eovi kr   _ )  SV %f~  r       -                                                       E                                                       . KedouNAou PAR
rhO den-so,,e   dr amd rhA                          o
bttou4n.  ,ob  o Ut.lo            \uP sSOUye%                   . -   'r  .'.,    _
doa .t o,,.tp   rho Pert att nOun  CAP SItRRING
a,'  16 oeGtuU laN E ABooodaono  I_                    -                           S     ,!                                  fG UINEA  &IS$



