Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4180-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
February 14, 1983
Education-and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GVSS   -     General vocational secondary school
ICB    -      International competitive bidding
MOE    -      Ministry of Education
NPC    -     National Planning Council
ODA    -     British Overseas Development Administration
TA     -      Technical assistance
UNDP   -     United Nations Development Programme
VTC    -     Vocational Training Corporation
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.35
JD 1.000    =      US$2.89
MEASURES
1 square mile                 =      10.764 square feet
1 square kilometer           =       0.38 square mile
1 hectare                    =       2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR ...................................
Socio-Economic Background ...........................1 I
Sector Background.                                          2
Education and Training Issues.                              4
Vocational Training Needs.                                  4
Job Relevance of Vocational Education.                      5
Allocation of Students in Secondary Education.              6
MOE Implementation Capability.                              6
Bank Strategy and.Lending for Education.                    7
II. THE PROJECT.                                                    8
Objectives and Scope.                                       8
General Vocational Secondary Schools (GVSSs).               9
Centralized Preparatory/Secondary Schools .13
MOE Institution Building .15
III.     PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS 16
Project Cost ........................                      16
Financial Plan ........................                    19
Recurrent Expenditures ........................            20
Implementation .........................  21
Accounting and Auditing ........................           22
Disbursements ...................                          23
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .24
Benefits .24
Risks .24
V.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Jordan in
June/July 1982. Mission members were Messrs. Michael Mertaugh (Mission
Leader), Valentine DeSa and David Lewis (World Bank), and Andreas Kouros
(Consultant). Documents pertinent to the proposed project are listed in
Annex 8.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                                                            PAGE
1.  Detailed Cost Estimates by Nature and Purpose ......................... 26
2. Estimated Unit Areas and Unit Capital Costs for
Project Institutions ................................................ 27
3.   Project Cost Contingency Allowances ................................... 28
4.   Implementation Schedule ............................................... 29-30
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ................................... 31
6.   Technical Assistance .................................................. 32
7.  Comparative Education  Indicators ...................................... 33-34
8.   Selected Documents and Data Available  in Project File ................. 35-36
CHART.    Education Pyramid,  1980/81 ....................................... 37
MAP:   Location of Project Institutions .38



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Basic Data
Population (1980)
Jordan (East Bank), total                                2.2 million
Annual rate of growth, 1970-1980                         3.4%
Proportion less than 15 years old                       46.8%
GNP per-capita (1980)                                    US$1,420
School Enrollments 1981/82 I/
Girls as
Enrollment as           % of
Level and Age Group                     Grade    % of Age Group 2/    Enrollment
Primary (6-11)                        1-6              108                48
Preparatory (12-14)                   7-9               91                46
Secondary (15-17)                    10-12              66                43
Higher (18-23)                       13-16+             19                41
Public Expenditures on Education (1980)
Central government expenditures on education as a percentage of
total central government expenditures 3/                                     10.2%
Central government expenditures on education as a percentage
of GNP 3/                                                                     4.9%
Adult Literacy Rate (as % of population over 12 years)                            70.0%
1/ See Annex 7 for comparative education indicators.
2/ Gross enrollment ratios, including overaged students.
3/ Ministry of Education only.



I
I



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01     Economic growth in Jordan during the period 1975-80 acnieved the
Government's overall growth target of 12% per year in real terms. This
striking performance was led by particularly rapid output growtn in phosphate
mining (25% per year), construction (22% per year), and manufacturing (16% per
year). Grants and migrant remittances played a major role in financing tne
high level of investment necessary to achieve this growth. The 1981-85
Development Plan foresees continued rapid growth of output (11% per year) and
a massive investment effort focussed on expanding capacity for manufacturing,
mining, and utilities, and on meeting social infrastructure needs.
1.02     In view of its sparse endowment of water and mineral resources and
its relatively highly educated labor force, Jordan rightly considers its labor
force to be its most important productive asset. Jordan's labor force has not
only made possible Jordan's rapid growth performance during the past five
years, but has also made an important contribution to growth in the
labor-importing Gulf states. Jordan exports a higher proportion of its labor
force, particularly in the high skill occupations, than any of the other labor
exporting countries in the region. Althougn the sizeable labor force outflow
has led to manpower shortages in certain occupations, such as construction
trades and accountancy, it has provided significant benefits to Jordan in the
form of remittances (inflows of which rose from US$23 million in 1974 to over
US$1 billion in 1981) and consolidation of job skills of Jordanian workers
through work experience, and has relieved the demand for local job creation.
1.03     Population and, especially, labor force in Jordan are growing at an
extremely rapid pace in spite of voluminous labor exports, and only a fraction
of this growth (20%) can be attributed to labor migration from Egypt and other
countries to fill the vacancies created by departing Jordanian workers. Total
East Bank labor force grew at 3.5% per year during the 1960s and early 1970s,
but,has grown at 6% per year since 1975. This very rapid growth of labor
force results in part from the rise of male labor force participation rates
which occurred in most age groups during the 1970s, as well as from the
continuing movement of working-age Palestinian population from the West Bank
to the East Bank. Most of it, however, results from the nigh rate of natural
increase recorded in the East Bank since the 1960s and from the consequent
youthfulness of the Jordanian resident population--almost half of which is
less than 15 years old. Despite the rapid growth of employment (4.3% per
year) since 1975, employment has not been able to keep up with the very rapid
growth of the labor force. According to the initial results of the 1979
census, the unemployment rate for the Jordanian resident labor force rose to
9.1% in 1979, in contrast to the 2% unemployment rates recorded in sample
surveys in 1972, 1974, and 1976. Although the 1979 sample census figures may
overstate the true extent of increase in unemployment, they provide useful
information about the characteristics of the unemployed--most of whom are
young and have limited education and job skills. Further rapid growth of the
labor force, combined with less rapid growth of foreign employment
opportunities for Jordanian workers, will necessitate rapid growth of
employment in Jordan if rising unemployment is to be averted. Thus, the
Government's concern with meeting manpower needs in bottleneck occupations
during the 1970s is likely to be progressively replaced by a concern to assure



- 2 -
a rapid enough growth of productive employment to absorb the growing number of
Jordanian labor-force entrants and returning migrants--and to equip the labor
force more generally with skills which are relevant to job needs.
Macroeconomic growth policies have the dominant role to play in generating the
job demand for a growing labor force; the Government's expansive investment
program, coupled with macro-economic incentives for private sector investment
are the principal policy instruments for generating vigorous growth of
manpower demand. An essential complement to this macro-economic policy
setting to stimulate employment demand is the Government's program of rapidly
expanded vocational training. By equipping the growing labor force with job
skills which are directly relevant to employment needs both within and outside
Jordan, this program aims both to relieve specific skilled labor shortages and
to improve employment prospects for Jordanian workers.
Sector Background
1.04     The Government has made a serious effort to modernize and diversify
the economy and has a strong commitment to human resource development.
Progress in expanding access to education has been striking: between 1974/75
and 1980/81, enrollments increased by about 22% at the primary level, 63% at
the preparatory level, and 137% at the secondary level. Expansion of
educational capacity was particularly successful in improving female
enrollments and in reducing regional enrollment disparities. Female school
enrollment was already high in 1974/75 by comparison with other countries in
the Middle East, and rose further in the subsequent five years. Between
1974/75 and 1980/81, female enrollments as a percentage of total enrollments
rose from 46.1% to 47.7% at the primary level, from 41.2% to 45.6% at the
preparatory level, and from 36.7% to 43.3% at the secondary level. In spite
of the Government's efforts to expand rapidly secondary vocational education,
the growth of enrollments in vocational secondary programs only slightly
exceeded the growth of general secondary enrollments; vocational enrollments
as a proportion of total secondary (general plus vocational) enrollments rose
from 12.9% in 1974/75 to 13.3% in 1980/81. Of the secondary vocational
specializations over the period 1975 to 1980, enrollments in industrial and
nursing programs rose most (132% and 727%, respectively), while enrollments in
commercial programs rose more modestly (35%) and enrollments in agricultural
programs declined (-43%).
1.05     The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formal education
and training which includes primary, preparatory, general and technical
secondary, and post-secondary polytechnics and community colleges. The
universities are autonomous and governed by their own boards which are
responsible for establishing general policy guidelines and determining each
year the number of students to be admitted to the different faculties. A
number of other Ministries, in particular the Ministry of Health and the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), an autonomous government agency
affiliated with the Ministry of Labor, are active in training related to their
special fields. The VTC is responsible for the in-plant apprentice program
conducted with the cooperation of employers and for a skill upgrading
program. In addition, there is a vigorous effort in job-oriented vocational
training in the private sector. There are, for example, 20 private community
colleges which offer post-secondary courses principally in commercial
specializations.



- 3 -
1.06     The Government's main objectives in education and training as
expressed in the 1981-85 Development Plan are; (a) to expand basic eaucation
(grades 1-9) from 91% of the age group in 1980 to 94% in 1985;
(b) increasingly to channel secondary-level students into vocational
specializations so as to achieve 30% vocational secondary enrollments by 1985;
(c) to reduce by more than 20% by 1985 the proportion of illiterates among the
popu:ation less than 60 years old; (d) to improve the quality of education
through upgraded teacher qualifications, improved curricula and teaching
materials, replacement of rented schools, and elimination of double shifting;
and (e) to provide the trained manpower necessary to meet the evolving demanas
of the Jordanian economy and of other Arab countries. A closely related goal
is to expand labor-force participation, particularly by Jordanian women.
These are reasonable and feasible educational goals.
1.07     The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives begins with
an ambitious program of investment to expand education and training capacity
at all levels. The Plan provides for over JD 225 million (about US$650
million) to implement priority projects in the education sector, including
university education, and JD 9.2 million (about US$27 million) to implement
training programs of the VTC and other agencies. An important element in the
Government's strategy for further expansion of basic education is tne
development of a new network of centralized preparatory/secondary schools with
boarding facilities for students from communities too small and too dispersed
to justify permanent schoois beyond the primary level.
1.08     The planned reorientation of secondary studies toward vocational
specializations relies heavily on a rapid expansion of vocational education in
MOE secondary schools. The Government's commitment to providing vocational
training within the formal school system dates from 1964, when specialized
industrial, agricultural, and commercial secondary schools were first
introduced. Later, vocational training was also offered together with
academic specializations in comprehensive secondary schools. General
vocational secondary schools (GVSSs), which offer several vocational
specializations but no academic specializations, are being introduced under
the fourth education project. Bank project assistance since 1972 has been
instrumental in supporting this expansion of secondary vocational education.
Although secondary education reform plans being considered by the National
Board of Education may affect the eventual format of secondary vocational
education, the Government has affirmed that general vocational secondary
schools will continue to be the main instrument for achieving the planned
expansion of secondary level vocational education. The principal alternative
source of vocational training at this level is the secondary-equivalent
apprenticeship training program offered by the VTC. The curricula of VTC
training courses are virtually identical to those of the MOE secondary
vocational schools--the main difference between the two programs being the
supervised in-plant instruction which VTC students receive. The vocational
training programs of both the MOE and the VTC benefit from the close
collaboration between the two programs in developing training programs,
designing training facilities and planning future expansion. The VTC program
has been manifestly successful in attracting students and in providing
relevant job skills. Although it is being expanded with Bank and Government
support, the VTC program is small and is expected to remain small in relation
to the MOE secondary vocational education program. The Government's strategy
relies on the formal school system to carry out tne bulk of the planned
vocationalization of secondary level education not because of a lack of



- 4 -
appreciation of the VTC apprenticeship training program, but because the
capacity for expansion of the VTC program is constrained by the limited number
of institutional employers in Jordan who are able to provide sustained,
supervised job experience as the VTC apprenticeship formula requires. Indeed,
the MOE intends to adopt a limited version of the successful VTC supervised
work program in its secondary vocational schools. It plans to introduce a
supervised summer work program for as many secondary vocational students as
can be placed in jobs relevant to their training specialization.
Education and Training Issues
1.09     The main issues in education and training are recognized by the
Government, are the basis of a constructive dialogue with the Bank, and are
addressed in the Government's plans. Tney are; (a) how to achieve a rapid
expansion of vocational training in specific areas to meet manpower needs;
(b) how to maximize job relevance of vocational education in view of the
prospective rapid growth of job demand by new Jordanian labor force entrants;
(c) how to improve the process of assigning students to secondary school
specializations; and (d) how to implement the MOE's plan for expanded general
and, especially, vocational education.
Vocational Training Needs
1.10     Expanded vocational training efforts are essential both to meet the
demand for skilled manpower in Jordan and for export to neighboring countries,
and to equip the rapidly growing working-age population with relevant job
skills. Although forecasts of Jordan's specific future manpower requirements
are very much affected by assumptions about future flows of Jordanians working
and studying abroad, the uncertainty from this source particularly affects
projections of demand for professional and technical occupations. Projections
of demand for skilled and semi-skilled workers are less subject to uncertainty
because a larger share of the total demand for these categories of workers
arises from economic activity within Jordan. The following table provides an
estimate of manpower demand and supply within Jordan for the period 1982-90 in
the skilled worker specializations to be offered by the GVSSs in the proposed
project;
Projected           Of Which:             Projected
Skilled        Estimated          Supply of          From        From        Cumulative
Worker         Demand for      Skilled Workers   Proposed    Earlier         Deficit of
Special-   Skilled Workers   from all sources   Fifth    Bank Group  Skilled Workers
ization       1982-90             1982-90        Project    Projects          1982-90
Agricultural    3,000               1,800            600          560          1,200
Industrial    108,700             49,800          6,400         8,820         58,900
Commercial      23,200            14,000           1,350        2,400          9,200
Nursing          9,500              6,000          1,800        1,120          3,500



-5-
1.11     The most conspicuous shortage of skilled workers appears in industry,
where a deficit of almost 60,000 workers is projected. Because more than half
of the expected new demand in this category arises from tne projected growth
of construction employment, the construction trades--including electrical
work, masonry and concrete, carpentry, heating, and plumbing--are lkely to be
most affected by the shortage. Significant additions to the existing skilled
worker training capacity are planned by the MOE and the VTC. Expansion of
training capacity by the MOE in this area must be attentive to the need,
emphasized by major construction contractors, of providing job experience as
an adjunct to vocational instruction in the construction trades. The
projected demand for skilled workers in agriculture is expected to be
concentrated in the Jordan Valley, where the exploitation of recently
discovered groundwater resources and tne rapid expansion of drip irrigation
v          and greenhouse agriculture are generating a growing demand for skilled
agricultural manpower trained in these areas. Government plans for expanding
female labor force participation focus on nursing and business (commercial
studies) as the areas offering the best prospects for female employment.
Recent tracer study results confirm that together with teaching, office work
and nursing are the occupations most favored by girls and their parents. The
projected growth in demand for skilled workers in commercial studies arises
mainly from the continuing growth of civil service employment and employment
in financial and other services, where employment is expected to maintain the
5%+ rate of growth recorded throughout the 1970's. Tne projected demand for
skilled nursing manpower reflects the major improvements which the Government
hopes to make both in the quality and the coverage of health services. In
particular, the demand for 9,500 skilled nursing staff, corresponding to the
assistant nurse training provided in the nursing specialization of the MOE's
vocational secondary schools for girls, arises from the Government's plan to
provide nursing staff to an expanding health infrastructure at all levels and
to increase the efficiency of physician and paramedical staff in these
facilities by increasing the ratio of assistant nurses to higher level medical
personnel. The proposed project would include a significant expansion of
skilled worker training capacity in these priority areas for male and female
employment--creating 7,780 additional skilled worker training places by 1987
(paras. 2.03 and 2.04).
Job Relevance of Vocational Education
1.12     The Government's plans for expansion of vocational training capacity
are designed both to relieve specific skilled labor shortages and to improve
employment prospects for the rapidly growing labor force. In order to achieve
these goals, it is essential that training be directly relevant to job needs.
Relevance in this case has two principal aspects; it relates to the provision
of actual job experience as an element of vocational training and to the
flexibility of the training system to respond to changing job needs. The
important task of assuring the job relevance of vocational education thus
consists of several elements, including; (a) adoption of a program of
supervised job experience as an adjunct of classroom and workshop training;
(b) adoption of a mechanism for continuous monitoring of changing employment
prospects in specific occupations through tracer studies, inputs from employer
groups and manpower planning with routinely collected macro-economic
indicators; (c) adoption of a mechanism for prompt feedback of information on
job prospects into the planning of the specialization mix and content of
vocational training courses; and (d) improved student guidance at the



-6-
preparatory level to guide the allocation of students into secondary
specializations based not only upon academic performance and preferences, but
also upon employment prospects. Technical assistance (TA) to be provided
under the proposed project (para. 2.10) and measures agreed at negotiations
(paras. 2.11, 5.01a, 5.01b, and 5.01c) would help to assure the continuing job
relevance of the expanded program of MOE vocational instruction.
Allocation of Students in Secondary Education
1.13     The MOE currently allocates students to academic and vocational
specializations on the basis of three criteria; the student's performance at
the end-of-preparatory examination, the student's expressed preference for an
academic or vocational secondary specialization, and the number of available
secondary school places. Student guidance is not provided to assist students
in indicating their preferences for the different specializations available in
secondary education. In practice, examination performance is the dominant
criterion in the allocation process, with virtually all the highest placing
students entering scientific, academic, and industrial specializations.
Students who do less well on the examination tend to be assigned to vocational
specializations according to a prestige hierarchy of specializations which
ranks industrial training most highly and agricultural training at the
bottom. This process is inefficient because it fails to account for different
aptitudes of students and because it results in training some students in
specializations in which they are unlikely to work. It also unfairly
discriminates against agriculture and other relatively undesired vocational
specializations, perpetuating the undesirability of those occupations by
ensuring that they receive the least qualified and least motivated
candidates. The MOE acknowledges the deficiency of the current student
allocation process, and is developing aptitude tests to provide an additional,
useful criterion to guide the assignment of secondary students. Although the
prestige ranking of occupations is a universal and slow-changing social
phenomenon, the development of improved monitoring of employment prospects and
improved student guidance activities would encourage the selection by students
of secondary specializations that are more in line with their abilities,
aptitudes, and employment prospects. TA to be provided under the proposed
project (para. 2.10) and measures agreed at negotiations (paras. 2.11c and
5.01c) would materially improve the process for allocating students to
secondary specializations.
MOE Implementation Capability
1.14     The Government's sizeable program of expanded general and,
especially, vocational education will require a significant strengthening of
MOE capacities both to effectively execute the program and to assure the
continuing job relevance of the expanded program of MOE vocational
instruction. The proposed project would provide TA for this purpose (paras.
2.16 and 2.17). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would recruit the qualified additional MOE staff necessary to implement the
planned expansion of school capacity (para. 5.01d). TA to be provided,under



the project (para. 2.10) and measures agreed at negotiations (paras. 2.11,
5.01a, 5.01b, and 5.01c) would also nelp to assure the continuing job
relevance of the expanded program of vocational instruction.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.15     The first IDA-assisted education project (Credit 285-JO approved in
1972 for US$5.4 million and completed in 1979) was designed to improve the
quality of education and to address deficiencies in the supply of skilled
manpower. Particular emphasis was given to vocational training for women to
improve their employment potential. Tthe project was innovative and assisted
in providing two comprehensive secondary schools, a polytechnic and teacher
training center, a co-educational teacher training institute, training of
agricultural teachers and TA for institutional support, curricula development
and teacher training. A system to trace tne placement of graduates ot the
project institutions was also developed and is operational.
1.16     The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494) for the first
education project in Jordan stated that "the project has been catalytic in
that it stimulated educational planning, the concept of diversification of
secondary education, and the better integration of technical/vocational
programs with the needs of the labor market. It has helped to develop project
implementation capabilities and procedures." The recommendations in the
project completion report have been adopted--namely, tne introduction of
improved procurement procedures, better coordination of TA, more effective
scheduling of required inputs and timing of implementation, and arrangements
for training MOE staff in management and administration techniques.
1.17     Continuing this strategy, the second IDA project (Credit 534-JO
approved in 1975 for US$6.0 million) has assisted in providing a polytechnic,
3 comprehensive secondary schools, extensions (workshops and laboratories) to
16 preparatory and secondary schools, a trade training center, a hotel
training school and a rural development center, and includes appropriate TA
for each component.  Implementation of this project was completed
satisfactorily in 1982 (Project Completion Report dated July 1982).
1.18     The third education project (Loan 1781-JO approved in 1979 for
US$19.0 million) includes five comprehensive secondary schools, one
pre-vocational teacher training institute, an extension to one secondary
agricultural school, one community college, one training complex and eight
mobile building maintenance units.  The project also provides support to
strengthen the planning and management capability of the MOE by providing a
research and evaluation mechanism and a computerized management information
system to be used as tools for planning and modern management. TA related to
the project institutions and for project management support is being funded by
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and executed by the Bank.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 8 -
1.19     The fourth project (Loan 2068-JO, approved in December 1981, for
US$25 million) provides for the construction and equipping of four GVSSs (two
for girls and two for boys), a trade training center, a nursing/paramedical
institute, a third polytechnic institute, and a technical teacher training
center attached to one of the existing IDA-supported polytechnics. In
addition, the project provides for the conversion of two teacher training
institutes into community colleges, and includes TA for these project
components as well as for further curriculum refinement for the comprehensive
secondary schools and polytechnics financed under the first three projects.
1.20     The proposed project, a Bank loan of US$18.8 million, is tightly
focussed and would continue the thrust of the first four Bank Group's
education projects upon increasing the supply of well-trained skilled workers
to meet manpower needs both within and outside Jordan. The project consists
entirely of repeater items. Continuing the support provided under the fourth
project, it would include 15 of the 23 new GVSSs programmed in the 1981-85
Development Plan. In addition, it would promote regional equity by supporting
the extension of preparatory and secondary schooling for students from the
most remote areas, areas with very limited school resources beyond the primary
level. This component would be a pilot project for a new centralized
secondary school format which the Government intends to develop to reach the
remaining areas of the country which lack access to education beyond the
primary level. Although new in format, the centralized schools would retain
elements of earlier Bank Group-supported comprehensive secondary schools. The
proposed project also continues and extends the TA provided under earlier
projects to strengthen the MOE. Support would be provided in two vital
areas. reinforcing the implementation capability of the MOE Directorate of
Projects, and developing the mechanisms necessary to assure the continuing job
relevance of MOE's expanding program of secondary vocational education.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
2.01     The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
priority programs which are fully consistent with its educational development
plan (1981-85) and strategy. Tne major objectives of the project are; (a) to
increase the output of skilled female and male workers, in conformity with the
demand for this level of manpower; and (b) to improve access to preparatory
and secondary education in remote rural areas. In addition, the project would
contribute to the institutional development of the MOE, already begun under
the earlier projects in the areas of curriculum development, tracer studies
and information management, through substantial strengthening of the MOE
Directorate of Projects and other MOE directorates in the area of project
preparation and implementation.



2.02     The project would include the provision of:
(a)  construction, equipment, and furniture for;
Estimated
Institution                    Grades       Enrollments      Annual Output
10 general vocational
secondary schools
(girls)                    10-12          3,840            1,440
5 general vocational
secondary schools
(ooys)                     10-12          3,940            1,440
3 centralized secondary
schools for boys
(with boarding
for 1260 students)          7-12          2,520              840
of which:
total preparatory
components                  7-9           1,440               480
total secondary
components                 10-12          1,080               360
(b)  TA related to training of instructors and directors for the above
project institutions (114 man-months of fellowships and study visits
and 9 man-months of specialist services); and
(c)  TA related to: (i) strengthening the MOE Directorate of Projects in
project preparation and implementation (14 man-months of fellowships
plus 3 man-months of specialist services); (ii) strengtnening MOE
capacity to implement projects, to expand its limited existing
program of practical job experience for secondary students, to
reinforce its program of career guidance and extend it to preparatory
school students, and to implement regional manpower planning and
tracer studies as an instrument for continuous monitoring of
employment prospects (64 man-months of fellowships and study visits
plus 11 man-months of specialist services); and (iii) preinvestment
work for a possible follow-up project (6 man-months of consultant
services).
General Vocational Secondary Schools (GVSSs)
2.03     This proposed component would assist the Government to train skilled
workers in priority areas (para. 1.11) through provision of construction,
furniture, equipment, and TA for 15 GVSSs--10 for girls and 5 for boys. It
would also promote female labor-force participation by preparing girl students
for productive work in occupations which offer the best prospects for female
employment. Like the 4 GVSSs being provided under the fourth project, the 15



- 10 -
GVSSs in the proposed project would combine in a single institution programs
formerly provided in separate secondary schools of industry, commerce,
agriculture, and nursing. This consolidation of specialized training courses
into a single institution allows for improved efficiency of administration and
instructional services, achieved in part through more intensive use of
teaching equipment and classroom/workshop space. Classrooms in the GVSSs
would operate on a single, daytime shift, and would be used by the MOE in the
evening for adult education and in-service teacher training. GVSS workshops
would operate on two shifts. A secondary education reform currently under
consideration by the National Board of Education may eventually lead to tfhese
and other GVSSs serving as centralized vocational schools for students from
surrounding general secondary schools, thereby using the proposed GVSS
workshop facilities even more intensively.
2.04     The GVSSs would offer a combination of three-year secondary courses
and two-year trade training courses in specializations selected according to
employment prospects, alternative training facilities, and availability of
students in the respective areas where the schools would be situated. Other
than their different subjects of specialization, the three-year courses differ
from the two-year courses in that they offer about three times as many
classroom hours in general education. The 10 girls' GVSSs would offer
three-year courses in business and nursing, and two-year courses in
dressmaking and cosmetology--fields for which tracer study results and other
information show strong prospects for female employment. About one-quarter of
the projected 3,840 enrollment in the 10 girls' GVSSs would be in tne two-year
course. A total of nine industrial specializations would be offered by the
boys' GVSSs--electrical utilization, industrial electronics, auto mechanics,
instrumentation, central heating and plumbing, farm machinery, carpentry,
welding and sheet metal, and construction. These specializations are similar
to those offered in the two boys' GVSSs supported under the fourth education
project. Different combinations of industrial specializations would be
offered by each of the boys' schools, depending upon regional employment
needs. Each of the five boys' GVSSs would offer four of the nine industrial
specializations, both in a three-year secondary and a two-year trade training
format, as well as a three-year business program. In addition, the three
boys' GVSSs in rural areas would offer three-year agricultural programs. The
agricultural program in two of the schools would focus on plant production;
the other would focus on food processing. One of the boys' schools would also
offer a postal specialization. These specializations to be offered by the
boys' GVSSs have been identified by the Government as the most urgent areas
for industrial training to meet manpower needs both in Jordan and in tne
region. About 80% of the 3,940 total students in the boys' GVSSs would be
enrolled in the three-year secondary program with the balance in the two-year
trade training program. Two-thirds of the students in the boys' GVSSs would
be enrolled in one of the industrial specializations to be offered by the
schools.
2.05     The average enrollment of the girls' GVSSs is half tnat of the GVSSs
for boys. The smaller size and greater dispersion of the girls' sohools is
designed to facilitate girls' school attendance and subsequent employment by
situating the schools closer to their homes than would be possible with
larger, more concentrated facilities. In the two boys' GVSSs which are to
offer a plant production specialization, the combination of the agricultural
program in the same facility with other vocational specializations continues
the Government's recent policy decision to move away from the former practice
of providing secondary agricultural instruction in large, isolated facilities.



- 11 -
By offering agricultural training in diversified vocational institutions in
rural settings, the Government seeks to improve the quality ana motivation of
agricultural students, and to increase the likelihood that agricultural
graduates will practice farming.
2.06     Curricula for the 15 GVSSs, which would be the same as those to be
used for the fourth project GVSSs, have been reviewed by the Bank and the
National Board of Education and judged satisfactory. Students are to begin
their vocational specializations from the start of the GVSS program. For most
of the 18 specializations to be offered by the schools, the mix of courses
remains the same during the two- or three-year course of studies. Students in
the three-year secondary courses are to have about 13 hours of academic
instruction per week, 8 hours of classroom instruction related to their
vocational specialization, and 18 hours of workshop instruction.   By
comparison, students in the two-year trade training courses have less academic
instruction--about five hours per week, the same amount of trade-related
classroom instruction, and more workshop instruction--about 24 hours per
week. Altnough the two-year trade training courses and the three-year
secondary vocational courses provide virtually the same programs of vocational
instruction, the latter are designed to produce graduates with more flexible
work capacity because of the supplementary general instruction which students
receive in the three-year program.
2.07     Sites for the proposed 15 GVSSs have been selected uy the MOE
Planning and Research Department through a comprehensive school mapping
exercise which takes into account projected graduates from preparatory schools
in the GVSSs' respective catchment areas, as well as students from other
secondary schools in those areas. The sites for the scnools are distributed
throughout the five governorates which comprise the East Bank, ranging from
Irbid governorate in the North (four schools) to Maan governorate in the South
(one school). Four of the five proposed GVSSs for boys are located in rural
areas--including the two schools which would offer a plant production
specialization. The fifth boys' GVSS would be near Amman. The sites for five
of the proposed girls' GVSSs are in rural areas; the five others are in the
greater Amman area. Staff housing for the principal and six teachers would be
provided in the 10 proposed GVSSs whose sites are remote from major urban
areas and where adequate teacher housing, especially for married teaching
staff, is likely to be very limited. Although it would accommodate only half
of the teachers in the institutions for which housing is to be provided, the
availability of some teacher housing is expected to be an important inducement
for attracting qualified vocational teachers to the GVSSs.  Student housing
would not be provided in the GVSSs, because school sites have been chosen so
as to permit students to walk to school or to use public transportation.
2.08     The 450 teachers (150 for general subjects and 300 for vocational
subjects) required to staff the proposed GVSSs would be recruited from several
sources, which are fully adequate to meet the needs of the GVSSs. The general
subject teachers would be recruited from the graduates of the University of
Jordan, Yarmouk University, and the community colleges. Most of tne
industrial teachers for the boys' GVSSs would be drawn from the technical
teacher training program being developed at Marka Polytechnic under the fourth
education project. The projected output from this program, totalling 300
teachers per year beginning in 1986, will be sufficient to meet the teacher
requirements in all of the industrial specializations to be offered in the



- 12 -
proposed boys' GVSSs. Teachers for the nursing program in the girls' GVSSs
would be recruited from the graduates of the existing post-secondary nursing
programs of the Ministry of Health, the University of Jordan and, beginning in
1986, the Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute which is being
developed by the Ministry of Health under the fourth education project.
Teachers for the business and postal specializations of the boys' and girls'
GVSSs would be drawn from the University of Jordan, the Amman Teacher Training
Institute, the Princess Alia Teacher Training Institute, and the several
community colleges which offer courses in business, accounting, and commercial
subjects. Teachers for the agricultural specialization in the boys' GVSSs
would be recruited principally from the graduates of the Faculty of
Agriculture program at the University of Jordan. Teachers for the dressmaking
and cosmetology specializations in the girls' GVSSs would be recruited from
the fellows scheduled to receive training abroad in those specializations
under the fourth education project TA component. In addition, TA would be
provided under the proposed project to send the chief instructors in each
specialization on study visits or fellowships abroad to guide them in setting
up the vocational programs in the proposed GVSSs.
2.09     The 7,780 places in the proposed project vocational schools would
play a key role in achieving the Government's quantitative goal for expanding
secondary vocational education. Together with the increased capacity which
will result from completion of the secondary vocaC4onal components of the
third and fourth education projects, they would comprise 52% of the projected
increase in secondary vocational enrollments by 1987--from 17,242 in 1981/82
to 44,000 in 1987/88. At the same time, they would contribute to a doubling
of the vocational share of secondary enrollments, from 16% in 1981/82 to 32%
in 1987/88.
2.10     In order to be effective, the rapid expansion of vocational training
capacity which the proposed GVSSs would support will require special efforts
by the MOE to ensure the continuing job relevance of GVSS training programs.
The evidence available from tracer studies, from the recent study of manpower
demand carried out as part of the Bank's review of the 1981-85 Development
Plan, and from other sources establishes the prospective manpower demand for
the graduates of each of the vocational programs to be offered by the 15 GVSSs
in the proposed project. However, to assure that the graduates of these
programs continue to be employable, it is essential that students be provided
with practical job experience as part of the secondary vocational education
program and that employment prospects be continuously monitored in order to
provide prompt feedback on changing employment prospects for each
specialization--information which is to be used to maintain an appropriate
enrollment mix of vocational specializations offered in the project vocational
schools, and to counsel preparatory school students who are selecting a
vocational specialization for secondary studies. Accordingly, the proposed
project includes TA to the MOE for three activities of central importance to
employability of GVSS graduates;
(a) to expand and strengthen the existing limited MOE program of
practical work experience for vocational secondary students during
school vacations (two two-month study visits, plus nine expert
man-months);



- 13 -
(b)  to strengthen career guidance in the MOE at the preparatory level as
an input to selection of secondary vocational specializations
(9-month fellowship); and
(c)  to reinforce tracer study capacity and to develop a capacity for
regional manpower planning in the MOE as an instrument for continuous
monitoring of employment prospects (18 months of fellowships plus two
expert man-months).
2.11     The Government will also adopt several specific measures to assure
the continuing job relevance of MOE secondary vocational instruction. These
measures, agreed at negotiations, include;
(a)  providing supervised job experience for students in all the MOE GVSSs
by the time the project GVSSs are operational as a means of
maximizing the relevance of GVSS vocational instruction to Jordan's
employment needs (para 5.01a);
(b)  extending the existing tracer study system to include the 15 project
GVSSs and furnishing to the Bank annual reports on the results of
these studies for five years following the first output of these
schools, and strengtnening the MOE's existing tracer study capacity
by assigning to its tracer study unit by December 31, 1983 a
statistician with adequate experience in statistical survey methods
and analysis in order to assess the effectiveness of secondary
vocational training in relation to labor market needs (para. 5.01b);
and
(c)  providing career guidance counseling for preparatory scnool
students. This measure, which would improve the process for
allocating students to secondary school specializations, particularly
in vocational areas, would be put into effect by the time the project
GVSSs are operational (para. 5.01c).
Centralized Preparatory/Secondary Schools
2.12     This component would help finance construction, equipment, and
furniture for the establishment of three pilot centralized schools for boys
combining the preparatory (grades 7-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) cycles.
The new schools would support the Government's effort to improve access to
further education for graduates of primary schools in remote rural areas in
the North (Irbid governorate), South (Maan governorate), and East (eastern
Amman governorate). The innovative aspect of the proposed centralized schools
is the combination of preparatory and general secondary programs in a single
institution with boarding facilities for students from surrounding communities
too small and too dispersed to justify separate post-primary schools. The
proposed project schools would replace a number of improvised and
educationally inadequate preparatory and general secondary classrooms housed



- 14 -
in existing primary schools, and would provide additional student places
required to bring the low level of school attendance in those areas--estimated
at 70% in preparatory and 30% in secondary--closer to the national average
enrollment rates of 91% and 66%, respectively. Based on the experience of the
proposed pilot centralized schools, the Government intends to establish
additional centralized schools to serve other remote areas of the country.
2.13     The curriculum for the proposed schools, which has been reviewed and
approved by the National Board of Education and the Bank, would be the same as
that used in other MOE preparatory and general secondary schools. The MOE
preparatory curriculum includes two hours per week of prevocational activities
in which students are provided with a general vocational orientation through
guided practical work in schools' vocational workshops.  Prevocational
activities are divided into several subject "clusters," which include
environment and energy studies; industrial activities (metalcraft,
woodworking, electricity, home repair); agricultural activities; commerce and
management activities; hygiene, safety and nutrition; family life and social
relations; and housekeeping activities. Preparatory prevocational instruction
in the proposed centralized schools would take place in more basic workshop
facilities than those to be used by the secondary students in the schools.
Prevocational instruction at the secondary level consists of from four to six
hours per week of instruction in a single vocational option selected by
students at the start of the tenth grade. Each of the centralized schools in
the proposed project would provide three or four vocational options, taking
into consideration local as well as national manpower needs. The vocational
specializations to be offered by the schools include electricity, woodwork,
metalwork, agriculture and commercial subjects. Although the proposed
centralized schools are new in format, past Bank lending has supported the
same program of prevocational-cum-general instruction in separate preparatory
and secondary institutions; the second education project (1975) supported
workshop additions to existing MOE preparatory schools and three new
comprehensive schools which incorporate prevocational instruction; the third
education project (1979) is helping to finance three additional comprehensive
secondary schools and conversion of two other secondary schools. Those
components of the second education project have been completed satisfactorily,
and the prevocational instruction programs in those institutions have proved
themselves satisfactory.
2.14     The locations and sizes of the proposed schools have been determined
by the MOE's Planning and Research Department on the basis of a detailed
school mapping exercise. Total enrollments in the three centralized schools,
which are to operate on a double-shift basis, would be 2,520. Boarding
facilities would be provided for the 1,260 students who would come from
communities more than ten miles distant from the schools. About half of the
2,520 student places would initially be filled by students relocated from
improvised preparatory and secondary facilities attached to existing primary
schools. In the case of MOE-owned schools, these vacated student places would
be used exclusively for primary school students, whose numbers are annually
increasing. Rented facilities would either not nave their leases renewed, or
would be used to accommodate expanded primary enrollments. The total annual
output of the preparatory section of the three schools would be about
480--compared to the present number of 270 in the classes to be replaced--and
the annual output of the secondary section of these schools would be about
360--compared to only 50 in the present classes to be replaced by the project
schools.



- 15 -
2.15     The schools would require a total staff of 100 teachers, about half
of whom are expected to come from the classes to be relocated trom inadequate
facilities. In principle, an adequate number of teachers is fully available
from the graduate outputs of the community colleges and universities, but the
lack of adequate housing near the schools could be a serious obstacle to
teacher recruitment. For this reason, and to assure adequate supervision ot
the boarding students, the project would include housing for school directors
and all teaching staff. The project would also make available to each of the
three school directors a three-month study tour to examine the administration
and operation of similar instructional programs abroad.
MOE Institution Building
2.16     Continuing the support already provided in the areas of curriculum
development and information management under the third and fourth education
projects, the proposed project would make a significant contribution to MOE
institutional development in two important areas. The first of these is
assessing the continuing job relevance of MOE secondary vocational instruction
through a strengthening of the MOE practical work experience program, as well
as a reinforcement of MOE capacity to carry out career guidance, tracer
studies, and regional manpower planning. Technical assistance to be provided
under the project (para. 2.10) and measures agreed at negotiations (para.
2.11) would help to assure the continuing job relevance of the expanding
program of MOE secondary vocational instruction. Technical assistance would
also be available for preinvestment work for a possible follow-up project.
2.17     The second area in which the proposed project would promote MOE
institutional development is reinforcing MOE's implementation capacity. This
reinforcement is necessary both to carry out the Government's program for
expanded vocational and general education, and to achieve improved efficiency
and unified standards of preparation for all MOE schools. The proposed
project would reinforce MOE's implementation capacity by providing an expert
in layout of workshop equipment and fellowships for upgrading MOE staff in
procurement procedures, preparation of visual aids for vocational instruction,
development and application of standard architectural design elements, school
location planning, technical assistance management, records management, and
techniques of in-service and industrial education. In addition, the
Government would strengthen the implementation capacity of the MOE's
Directorate of Projects by assigning to that Directorate by December 31, 1983
the following additional qualified staff: two procurement officers, two
accountants, two quantity surveyors, an experienced architect and an
experienced engineer (para. 5.01d).



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, LIMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost
3.01     Summaries of Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated at JD 30.8
million or US$88.9 million equivalent.  The breakdown by component project items
is summarized below by groups of items, with the foreign and local cost elements
of each:
Table 3.1  Project Costs - By Component Items
JD (millions)              US$ (millions)        % of
Item                           Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
Physical Facilities:
(Construction, equipment,
furniture and architectural
services);
10 general vocational
secondary schools
for girls               3.75   4.09   7.84       10.83 11.83  22.66    35.3%
5 general vocational
secondary schools
for boys                3.58   3.92   7.50        10.36 11.32  21.68    33.8%
3 centralized secondary
schools for boys        3.34   3.18   6.52         9.65  9.20  18.85    29.4%
Sub-total                 10.67  11.19  21.86       30.84 32.35  63.19    98.5%
Technical Assistance:
Specialists' services    0.01   0.09   0.10          0.03  0.25   0.28       0.5%
Fellowships                0.02   0.21   0.23        0.06  0.61   0.67       1.0%
Sub-total                  0.03   0.30   0.33        0.09  0.86   0.95       1.5%
Base Cost (mid-1982 prices)  10.70  11.49  22.19         30.93 33.21  64.14   100.0%
Contingencies:
Physical                   1.07   1.14   2.21        3.09  3.28   6.37       9.9%
Price increase             3.24   3.11   6.35        9.37  8.99  18.36    28.6%
Sub-total                  4.31   4.25   8.56       12.46 12.27  24.73    38.5%
Total Estimated
Project Cost                 15.01  15.74  30.75       43.39 45.48  88.87



- 17 -
3.02     The estimated project costs by categories of expenditure are summarized
below:
Table 3.2 Project Costs - By Category of Expenditure
JD (millions)          US$ (milLions)       % oaI
Category                    Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total   Base Cost
Construction;
Buildings:
Academic and Communal  5.87    5.70   11.57   16.96  16.48  33.44   52.1%
Boarding                 0.81    0.70    1.51    2.34   2.02   4.36    6.8%
Staff Housing           0.91    0.81    1.72    2.63   2.34   4.97    7.8%
All Buildings              7.59    7.21   14.80   21.93  20.84  42.77   66.7%
Site Development           1.02    0.47    1.49    2.95   1.36   4.31    6.7%
Buildings and Site
Development              8.61    7.68   16.29   24.88  22.20  47.08   73.4%
Architectural Services   1.36    0.18    1.54    3.94   0.51   4.45    6.9%
Sub-total                  9.97    7.86   17.83   28.82  22.71  51.53   80.3%
Furniture                    0.45    0.78    1.23    1.31   2.26   3.57    5.6%
Equipment                    0.25    2.55    2.80    0.71   7.38   8.09   12.6%
Technical Assistance         0.03    0.30    0.33    0.09   0.86   0.95    1.5%
Base Cost
(mid-1982 prices)         10.70   11.49   22.19   30.93  33.21  64.14  100.0%
Contingencies                4.31    4.25    8.56   12.46  12.27  24.73   38.5%
Total Estimated
Project Cost              15.01   15.74   30.75   43.39  45.48  88.87
A summary presentation of estimated project costs both by component items and by
categories of expenditure appears in Annex 1.
3.03     Bases of Cost Estimates.  Construction cost estimates are the products
of: (a) functional accommodation schedules based on educational specifications
appropriate to relevant teaching programs, and (b) current unit building costs



- 18 -
based on recent contracts for similar standards of construction in corresponding
facilities, with adjustments for regional cost differences. The latter costs per
square meter of gross construction area, which average US$420 equivalent, are
reasonable for the utilitarian standards of construction allowed for--and are
below the median construction costs for comparabie Bank-assisted school
construction in other countries (i.e., US$450 equivalent--at mid-1980
prices--which would now be higher). Costs for professional architectural
services reflect the current scale of fees established for services provided by
local architectural firms.
3.04     Estimated equipment costs are products of; (a) lists reviewed during
appraisal, and (b) current CIF unit prices adjusted to include local
transportation costs and, where appropriate, installation costs. Furniture
estimates reflect percentages of construction costs represented by the
relationship between furniture and construction costs experienced for similar
institutions in ongoing education projects in Jordan.
3.05     Estimated technical assistance costs, which draw on recent experience,
average; US$11,000 and US$6,000 equivalent per man-month for expatriate and
local specialists services, respectively, inclusive of salary, fee, overhead,
international travel and subsistance. Overseas fellowship training is estimated
to cost US$3,500 per man-month, inclusive of international travel.
3.06     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project cost estimates do not include any
import duties or taxes. The amounts of duties paid on building materials
imported by building contractors are not accurately identifiable. Equipment and
goods imported for use by Government ministries are exempt from duties.
3.07     Unit Areas and Unit Costs.  As indicated by the table in Annex 2, the
construction areas and costs per student place and housing unit represented by
the cost estimates compare favorably with those for comparable facilities in
other Bank-assisted education projects.
3.08     Contingency Allowances.  The project cost estimates include contingency
allowances for;  (a) physical factors, equivalent to 10% of the estimated base
costs of construction, professional services, furniture and equipment and 5% (for
"planning" or "design" uncertainties) of estimated technical assistance costs;
and for (b) price escalation covering the periods from appraisal to points of
forecast expenditure--in accordance with an appropriate implementation schedule
(Annex 4) at the following escalation rates:
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Foreign costs        8.0%    8.0%    7.5%    7.0%    6.0%
Local costs          9.0%    9.0%    8.0%    7.0%    6.0%
At these rates, costs are expected to increase during the project
implementation period by averages of about;  27% for building work and site



- 19 -
development; 26% for architectural services; 26% for furniture; 24% for
equipment; 19% for specialists' services; and 27% for fellowship training (Annex
3). Accordingly, aggregate price increases are estimated at about 26% of base
costs plus the physical contingency allowance. Together, physical plus price
increases account for 28% of the total estimated project cost, and 39% of base
cost.
3.09     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component of
US$45.5 million, representing 51% of estimated total project costs, has been
calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions of 47% of base
costs for construction and site development, 11% for architectural services, 63%
for furniture, 91% for equipment, and 91% for technical assistance. The foreign
exchange proportions used to estimate project costs are based on the assumptions
that. (a) approximately 60% of construction contracts would be awarded to local
firms; (b) architectural services will be entirely local; (c) while most
furniture contracts would be awarded to local firms, materials used must,
nevertheless, be largely imported; and (d) most equipment would be directly
imported.
Financial Plan
3.10     The proposed loan of US$18.8 million would finance the toreign exchange
costs of; (a) constructing, furnishing and equipping the boys' centralized
secondary schools; (b) equipping the vocational secondary scnools for girls; and
(c) architectural services and technical assistance for all project
institutions. It would cover about 21% of the total estimated project costs.
The Saudi Fund is expected to finance the local and foreign exchange cost of
constructing the 8 vocational secondary schools which are located in the
Amman/Salt area. Because of its magnitude in the proposed project, signature of
an agreement for co-financing of the project by the Saudi Fund is to be a
condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 5.02). The British
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) has proposed to finance 2 million,
equivalent to about US$3.2 million, of the foreign exchange cost of equipment for
the five boys' vocational secondary schools. The proposal is in an advanced
state of preparation. The proposed financial plan for the project is summarized
below;



- 20 -
Table 3.3 Financial Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Saudi                              IBRD
Category                       Government  Fund    ODA        IBRD    Total   Share %
Buildings and Site
Development;
Vocational Schools
(girls and boys)           16.1         16.1     -        -       32.2     -
Centralized Schools           7.9           -       -      7.0      14.9    47.0%
Furniture:
Vocational Schools
(girls and boys)            2.5                           -        2.5     -
Centralized Schools           0.4-          -       -      0.7       1.1    63.6%
Equipment;
Vocational Schools (boys)   0.9             -      2.4      -        3.3      -
Vocational Schools (girls)
and Centralized Schools   0.4             -       -       4.4      4.8    91.7%
Professional (architectural)
Services                      3.9           -       -       0.5      4.4    11.4%
Technical Assistance            0.1           -       -        0.9     1.0    90.0%
Total Base Cost
(mid-1982 prices)            32.2         16.1    2.4      13.5    64.2    21.0%
Contingencies
(physical and price)        12.6          6.0    0.8       5.3    24.7    21.4%
Total Project Cost             44.8         22.1    3.2       18.8    88.9    21.1%
Recurrent Expenditures
3.11     When fully operational in 1987, the project institutions are
estimated to generate about JD 1.1 million annually in incremented recurrent
costs, including the substantial cost of expendable materials for the general
vocational secondary schools. This amount would constitute an increment of
less than 1% of projected recurrent expenditures on education in 1987.
Because the Government attaches a high priority to equipping and supplying



- 21 -
existing secondary schools adequately, ample funding for supplies is expected
to be available to assure efficient operation of the project scnools. The
1982 Budget Law gives an indication of this support for recurrent expenses for
supplies and maintenance. It provides JD 5.8 million for supplies and
maintenance of MOE schools--fully 15% of budgeted recurrent MOE expenditures.
Implementation
3.12     Implementation Period.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about five years. As indicated by the implementation schedule in
Annex 4, construction, furnishing and equipment of project schools and
technical assistance activities would be completed by the end of 1987. To
allow time for the processing of final withdrawal applications and the
settlement of accounts, the proposed Closing Date would be June 30, 1988.
3.13     Project Administration.  Implementation of the project would be
managed by the MOE Directorate of Projects. The MOE has begun to develop
portfolios of standard facility designs and syllabi-specific instructional
equipment schedules and to augment the present establishment of the
Directorate for handling the expanding workload represented by possible future
projects. The technical assistance provisions under the proposed project
would include the services of an expatriate specialist to help DOP staff
develop laboratory and workshop layouts for appropriate accommodation of
instructional equipment requirements. Maintenance of the facilities to be
provided under the project would be carried out by the MOE maintenance unit in
the Directorate of School Buildings. Maintenance of existing MOE facilities
is satisfactory; the MOE's maintenance capacity was recently strengthened by
the acquisition under the third education project of eight moblle units for
school maintenance which are in service throughout the country.
3.14     Technical Assistance.  Draft terms of reference for technical
assistance have been prepared by the MOE; the Government agreed at
negotiations that a final draft of the fellowship and expert recruitment
program would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1983 and the program
would be carried out in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.01f). The proposed schedule for fellowship use and expert
assignments is shown in Annex 6.
3.15     Project School Sites.  Sites for all project schools have been
acquired and legal transfer to the MOE finalized. All sites are satisfactory
and have access to electrical power and adequate water supply.
3.16     Building Design.  Architectural design work is being carried out by
three local architectural firms who have been engaged by the DOP as
consultants, respectively, for; the girls' vocational secondary schools, the
boys' vocational secondary schools and the boys' centralized secondary
schools. It is expected that these firms would also supervise construction of
the project institutions. Sketch aesigns have been reviewed and commented on
by the Bank. Final drawings, together with bid documents, would be well
advanced by loan signing.



- 22 -
3.17     Equipment and Furniture Needs.  Basic equipment and furniture lists
for all project institutions have been approved by the Bank. Detailed lists
and specifications are being reviewed by the Bank. Final equipment lists and
bid documents are to be completed by November, 1983.
3.18     Procurement.  Contracts for construction of the project institutions
to be financed under the loan would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In the
light of the continuing heavy demands on the local construction industry, it
is anticipated that a substantial proportion (about 40%) of the contracts will
be awarded to foreign construction companies active in the Middle East. Prior
Bank review of procurement documentation and contract award recommendations
would be required for all civil works contracts for institutions to be
financed under the loan.
3.19     Equipment and furniture needs would be grouped to the extent possible
in large packages for bulk procurement. All equipment and furniture to be
financed under the proposed loan would be procured under tne following
procedures: Contracts for bid packages exceeding US$100,000 equivalent
estimated value would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Items which cannot
practicably be grouped in bid packages of more than US$100,000 equivalent
estimated value, or items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be
appropriate, would be procured under government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank and would include, to the extent possible, quotations
from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. Such procurement of equipment
and furniture items by means other than ICB would be subject to an aggregate
value limit of US$1.6 million equivalent (corresponding to about 10% of the
total estimated value of equipment and furniture requirements, including
contingency allowances). In the comparison of bids obtained on the basis of
ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of the
CIF price, whichever is lower. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation
and contract award recommendations would be required for all equipment and
furniture contracts awarded on the basis of ICB.
Accounting and Auditing
3.20     The Directorate of Projects maintains separate accounts for all
earlier Bank-assisted education projects, and would establish a separate
account for this project. The maintenance of accounts tor the earlier
projects has been orderly and systematic and the submission of withdrawal
applications generally timely and complete.
3.21     Project accounts would be audited annually by the Governmentts Audit
Bureau. During negotiations the Government provided assurances tfeat the
audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within eight months of the end
of each fiscal year, beginning with the first year of project disbursements
(para. 5.01(e)).



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.22     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of five and a
quarter years, to finance about 21% of total estimated project costs, on the
following basis;
Category                                  % of Expenditures to be Financed
Civil Works:                             47% of total expenditures;
for 3 boys'centralized
secondary schools
Equipment;                                100% of foreign expenditures on
for 10 girls' vocational               directly imported items;
secondary schools and 3                100% of local expenditures
boys' centralized                      ex-factory for locally manufactured
secondary schools                      items; 85% of local expenditures on
and                                  items procured locally "off-the-shelf";
Furniture:
for 3 boys' centralized
secondary schools
Professional (architectural)              10% of total expenditures; and
Services
Technical Assistance;                     90% of total expenditures
fellowships and experts
In order to expedite preparation of architectural designs and workshop layouts
for the project, US$300,000 of retroactive financing is recommended to cover
expenditures for consultant architectural services and the services of a
coordinator for workshop equipment layouts incurred after July 31, 1982. The
estimated disbursement period for the project is 5-1/4 years, comparea to a
country-wide average of 6-1/2 years. The estimated disbursement schedule for
the project (Annex 5) has a shorter implementation period than has the
country-wide profile for Jordan because of the relatively advanced stage of
preparation of this project. The experience of Bank projects country-wide
reflects, among other things, problems of contractor delays and the necessity
of rebidding which have arisen in certain projects in other sectors. With the
exception of a single contractor failure, which was dealt with promptly and



- 24 -
effectively by the Government, no such problems have been experienced with
Bank projects in the Education sector and no specific problems are foreseen.
This is particularly true in view of the recent measures taken by the
Government to strengthen the already effective Directorate of Projects and the
measures included in the current project to further reinforce the project
preparation and supervision capacity of that Directorate.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     Continuing the thrust of previous education projects in Jordan, the
proposed project would significantly expand skilled worker training in areas
of greatest national need, and would promote regional educational equity by
improving access to preparatory and general secondary schooling in remote
areas of the country. The 15 general vocational secondary schools to be
constructed and equipped under the project would play a key role in promoting
the planned reorientation of secondary education toward practical, vocational
instruction. In relation to current vocational enrollments, the greatest
gains would be made in the area of expanded female vocational instruction.
The proposed project would also expand the capacity and quality of preparatory
and secondary schooling in areas of the country where post-primary education
is severely constrained by inadequate facilities. Technical assistance
provided by the proposed project would strengthen the MOE's implementation
capability, and contribute to the development and implementation of uniform
school standards for all MOE schools.
Risks
4.02     There are no significant risks, as the proposed project consists
entirely of repeater items from components of previous projects which have
been or are being implemented satisfactorily.



- 25 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that;
(a) the MOE will, by the time the project GVSSs are operational, provide
supervised job experience for students in all the MOE GVSSs as a
means of maximizing the relevance of GVSS vocational instruction to
Jordan's employment needs (para 2.11a);
(b) the MOE will: (i) extend the existing tracer study system to include
the 15 project GVSSs and will furnish to the Bank annual reports on
the results of these studies for five years following the first
output of these schools, and (ii) strengthen the MOE's existing
tracer study capacity by assigning to its tracer study unit by
December 31, 1983 a statistician with adequate experience in survey
methods and analysis in order to assess the effectiveness of
secondary vocational training in relation to labor market needs
(para. 2.11b);
(c) the MOE will, by the time the project GVSSs are operational, improve
the process for allocating students to secondary school
specializations, particularly in vocational areas, by providing
career guidance counseling for preparatory students (para. 2.11c);
(d)  in order to strengthen the implementation capacity of tne MOE's
Directorate of Projects, the MOE will assign to the Directorate by
December 31, 1983 the following additional qualified staff; two
procurement officers, two accountants, two quantity surveyors, an
experienced architect, and an experienced engineer (para. 2.17);
(e) project accounts would be audited annually by the Government's Audit
Bureau and the audited accounts submitted to the Bank within eight
months of the end of each fiscal year, beginning with the first year
of project disbursement (para. 3.21); and
(f) the final draft of the fellowship and expert recruitment program for
technical assistance under the project would be submitted to tne Bank
by December 31, 1983, and the program would be carried out in
accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14).
5.02     Signature of an agreement for co-financing of the project by the
Saudi Fund is to be a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 3.10).
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$18.8 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan for a term of 17 years including a grace period of four years.



e cl                    ~~~~- 26 -                          AIINEX 1
NI   c    0    4   o t 
4>                       0
fo o-on I!l
s0    C O       .0a
IN C       N   0        N 
4ooa La I  -1
_N     o     '40o  4 O      N N00  o             l
On u0                N  N N
'Z =N                                                 I- s       _ 
NIO    s          c                                   oNoI|N  w  -   S
C     C           :ON
o~~ ~ C  s             U                     N41 soIt i     8 S
ot ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ N o 4 .              j 4 '   
0-       N    4O NO  co'        I  N               0         1
NC                                                N
NA=rON    NN  N  O             0E     00 0!          0
- 0 O       0 o        n               NO     o 
N O .     ONXO  N0  0s                NN 10 o    
IN_ N  0N4  ~I                0   No 40 
0o      001 _               NS     00  X U1    0  01
c~~~ ~~~ U  _ 00  III        N o!    N      o0
CNN    N e ' N'i=*3    t~o<o 
N   N  h  : C   O  =    O        =   N 1   o  0  



- 27 -
JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED UNIT AREAS AND UNIT CAPITAL COSTS
FOR PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(mid-1982 prices)
Est. Gross Construction Area                               Estimated Costs per Student Place/Housing Unit 1/
per Student Place/Housing Unit                                            This Project                           Medians 74-80 Projects
Type of Facilities/        This      Medians 74-80 Projects          Buildings &                                                                  Total Cost
Institution            Project   EMENA        Bank-Wide            Site Dev.         Furniture      Equipment       Total                 EMENA         Bank-Wide
M2       MM2             2us                                  US$             US$          US$                   US$              US$
1. Academic
a) 10 Gen. Voc Sec.
Schools-Girls          8.9                                           4,027           355             888         5,270
(Average)
b) 5 Gen. Voc. Sec.                  10.0           10.0                                                                                    8,440             8,440
Schools-Boys            8.5                                          3,980           334              836        5,150
(Average)
c) 3 Cent. Sec.
Schools-Boys            7.1        7.7            5.8                3,315           290              515        4,120                   3,030             2,600
(Average)                      (Sec.Gen.)    (Sec.Gen.)                                                                               (Sec.Gen.)        (Sec.Gen.)
2. Boarding
3 Cent. Sec.
Schools-Boys            8.9 2/    6.3 3/          6.3 3/            4,200            300              160        4,660                   3,075 3/          3,075 3/
(Average)
3. Staff Housing
a) 6 Gen. Voc. Sec.
Schools-Girls         95.7                                          43,850            -                -        43,850
(Average)
b) 4 Gen. Voc. Sec.                 100.0          100.0                                                                                   62,390            43,700
Schools-Boys           95.7                                         45,500            -                -        45,500
(Average)
c) 3 Cent. Sec.
Schools-Boys          92.1                                         43,350             -                -        43,350
(Average)
1/ Unit Costs exclude Contingency Allowances and Professional Feas.
2/ Includes dining facilities.
3/ Excludes dining facilities.



C.cotty     JORDAN             Ed...ti.o  Proj.t  FIFTH
P R O J E C T  C O S T  C O N T I N GE  N C Y  A L L O W A N C B S
(A p p r        I i   a l  R a p o r t  A . . e .  No. 3 )
(Estimates in '000 Jordanian Dinars)
SITE DBVBLOPY%NT         BRILDINWS              FURNITURE              EOUIPBBRNT                  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                          TECENICAL ASSISTANCE                      TOTAL
ARCH. CONSgULTANTS                           EXPAT. SPECIALISTS     STAFF DiIELoPHN~NT*
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Tot-l   Local Fo       Toto1 Local  oreg   Tot.a I   Local COretS   Tot a I  Loc     a      T       Loce     igo  Tot        al PA        T       Locol Soralg   Total
NAs Cost Rsta  (6Il923
Local Poreign Rcoakdoo    1 020   470  1_490 7.590 7_211 14,80    454  783   1,237   246   2,554 2,800  1,364   175   1,539  ___  __                         _       4       41     45      22    229  _ 251   0,70  11,463 22,16.
S Lo. d   F-ioreign of Tota    63%    32%          51%    49% __          37%    63%  _          9%      91%            89%    11%           __                      10%      90%              9%    91%             48%   52%
Phy.tial CoatiSg.n.y
S of R.a. Cost              11%    iln%   Jf% n   IL%    i nu    i07   10% 0I       %    10%   10%       10%    101    10%    10%    10%_                   __        s_    5% _   5%    55%              ____5    1Q%  _10%   10%
Aotnt                       132  4A7        149     59    72        1.481   451  78       12  _25        255 _  28C    136    18        154                          - _  _ _                        11     2       1     LJI?  7
las- Cost + Phy.tral
Co tingnty                 1,1?2  5j17  Lh35' 8.349 7.932 16_28    499   861   1,360   271   2,809 3,080 1,500  193   1,693                                            4      43 _   47_    23    240    263  11 76 12 59  4 36. -
Ixpootod Price Ionc ,.
I B00, + Phyi-cal Conting.   26%    23%    25%    287    25    27%    28%    25%    26%    27%   24%    24%             26%    23%   26%                             20%    18%    19%    30%    Z7A    27%    28%    25%    26%
Aoott                      292    119       411 2       11983 4321    140    215    355           73    674   747       390    44    434   ____                       1       8      9       7      65      72  13241 3,100 6,349
Total (ontingecy Alla-.-coa.
A r-t                       394    166      56C 3,09 2,704 5,801    185    293   478              98    929 1,027    526    62    588           I_          _                 10     11      8      76     84   [,309 4,240 8,549
s ootxl & Fore.ig  of Total    70%    30%         _532  47%               39%      61l    _      10%    90%  __ 1__29%                                                              _0%    50%
Totnl Eat. P-ojct Co,t,
(S-c idtog Coatiogaocti.) 1,414  636  2,050 10,68   '           09915 .602   639 1,076   .715   344   3 483 3. 827 1.890 _  237 2.127          __  _                 5       51    56       30    305    335  L5,00 15,70330,712
%Local &PoreFg of Tota    69%    31%                                           8=___   1                                                                                                      9 48%Z  |  _ 8%  = __   __  , F *ZJ = _7__  9%    91%  =    49%  51%
i coluding overcoase



Annex 4
-29-                                                                              Page 1
HASHEMiTE KINDOM OF JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982               1983                1984                1985               1986                1987                1988
1   2   3    4    12    3   4    1   2   3    4    1   2   3  4               1   2   3    4   1   2    3   4    1   2   3   4
BUILDINGS
Appointment of Arch.
Consultants
Outstanding Site Surveys
Lab. & VVIS Equip. Layouts
Rev. Design Drgs.
Draft Bid Docs.
Const. Drgs. & Docs.
- smaller voc. schs.
- larger/vocational centr. schs.
Const. Tender
Tender Analyses
Contract Awards
Construction
- smaller voc. schs.m -                                                                                                   - -
- larger/vocational centr. schs.-                                                                           - m           - -       - - -          - -
Guarantee Period
- earliest complete
- latest complete
EQUIPMENT& FURNITURE
Lab. & WIS Equip. Layouts                          |
Prelim. (Master) Lists
Draft Bid Docs.
Bid Lists & Specs.
Tender
Tender Analyses
Contract Awards
Manufacture/Supply/Delivery                                                                  -         - I           -   - i  - _ | _
Appraisal      -                    I  .1 ---Loan Signing                                                  Closing Date - - - - - -
0 IBRD Clearance                                                         i P                                                                                                    I
Board Presentation--- -           il-.- --  -Loan Effectiveness                                                            World Bank-24399



Annex 4
-30                                                       Page  2
HASHEMITE KINDOM OF JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982               1983        1       1984        1      1985        [      1986                1987       J        1988
_____________                                 1112131411121314314]2)3                                4111213141112[31411121314111213141
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Specialists IExperts)
VV/S Equipment Layout
3 Advisors Pract. Training Prosgs.
ILocal Experts)
Survey Design & Evaluation
(Tracer Studies)
GVSS Administration
Fellowships
Instructor Training
-13 for 6 months
-12 for 3 months                                                                       m
Institution Building
Directorate of Projects
-2 for 3 months
-4 for 2 months
Ministry of Education
-1 for 1 month
-6 for 2 months
-1 for 3 months
-2 for 6 months
-4 for 9 months                     -
Appraisal  -                4           -l---Loan Signing                                                 Closing Date _
Board Presentation  ---+f          ----        Loan Effectiveness
World Ban k-24400



- 31 -                        Annex 5
JORDAN'
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Accumulated       Undisbursed
Disbursements      Disbursement          Balance
Fiscal Year and Semester        Amount       %      Amount      X     Amount    x
18.80
1984
1                             0.47        2.5    0.47        2.5    18.33    97.5
2                             0.30        1.6    0.77       4.1    18.03    95.9
1985
1                             0.92        4.9    1.69       9.0    17.11    91.0
2                             4.56       24.3    6.25      33.2    12.55    66.8
1986
1                             5.43       28.9   11.68      62.1      7.12    37.9
2                             3.65       19.4   15.33       81.5     3.47    18.5
1987
1                             1.50        8.0   16.83      89.5      1.97    10.5
2                             0.87        4.6   17.70      94.1      1.10      5.9
1988
1                             0.70        3.7   18.40      97.9      0.40      2.1
2                             0.40        2.1   18.80    100.0       0.00      0.0
Closing Date; June 30, 1988.



- 32 -
Annex 6
JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Category and Purpose                                Man/Months            Total        Beginning
Number        Eacn            Man/Months         Date
Fellowships
a) Instructor training
i) Boys' GVSSs;
industrial workshop
specializations                 8            6                 48            September 1984
agriculture specializa-
tions (agricultural
extension, plant
production                     2            5                   12          September 1984
business/commercial               2            3                   6           September 1984
ii) Girls' GVSSs
nursing                           2            3                   6           September 1984
business/commercial               3            3                   9           September 1984
cosmeLelogy                       3            6                  18           September 1964
dressmaking                       2            3                   6           September 1984
iii) Boys' Centralized Schools
(principals' study visits)          3            3                   9                March i987
b) Institution Building
i) MuE Directorate of Projects
construction management           2            3                   6           September 1983
procurement staff
upgrading                       2            2                  4            September 1983
coordinating architect
for workshop layouts           1            2                  2               October c983
technical assistance
management                      1            2                  2              October 1983
ii) Strengthening MOE
advisors on equipment
layouts                        4            2                  8               October 1983
study visit on practical
training in industry
(Directorate of Indus-
trial Education)                2           2                  4               Octooer iS8b
school location planning          1            9                  9            September 1983
survey techniques (Tracer
Study Unit)                     1            9                  9            September 1983
regional manpower
planning                        1            9                  9            september 1984
visual aids for voca-
tional education                1           3                  3            September 1983
techniques of in-service
training in industrial
education (Directorate
of Certification and
in-Service Training)            1           6                  6            September 1984
student guidance                  1            9                  9            September 1984
application of
standardized school
design elements                              b                  6            September 1983
records management                1            1                  1            September 1983
Experts
Coordinator for workshop
equipment layouts               1            3                  3               August 1982
Advisor on GVSS practical
training program                3            3                  9              October 1983
Advisor on survey design
and evaluation (Tracer
Study Unit)                     1            2                 2             September 1983
Advisor on vocational
school administration           1            9                  9              January  1985
Study
Preinvestment Study            TBD           TBD                  6                    TSD



- 513 -
Am.ex 7
Page 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
FEIRUARY 17, 1983
CENTRAL.
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                        COMPLETION             RECUDRRENT
ON EDPUCATION  EDUCATION        ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                 UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY                 HIGHER
GNP PER               AS PERCENT    RECURRENT         LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY        PRIMARY   PRIMARY      RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE              RATIO   SCHOOL        STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO           STUDENTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (%)    (NET)   CYCLE                  PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)          PER        (GROSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   pRI  SEC  HI   (1976)    (X)                (i)      TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA         (M)         (1)    TEACHER       (U)
(1)      (2)        (3)            (4)            (5)          (6)        (7)       (8)        (9)         (10)          (IL)        (12)        (13)    (14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA           80    14.6b  8 870        6,3a         14.6         --                 --       1032       100         21        ---            99           73        13       20.90
CANADA              81     23.7b  9,650b    7.7            18.5ay      3025 34,? 233?   ggb         1062      100          21        19.9a?        100          92'        18       22.60"
GERMANY F.R.        79    61.2  12,200        4.6           992         ---  ---  ---    994b        89s      100          ---        1--          50           94h        ---      12.102
NETHERLANDS         79    14.0  10,490        7.9           5.1        20   35   25        99b?      96        95          18        15.3           99          82         13       12.40
N EW ZEALAND        80      3.2b  6,081b    5.5'           13.4         37   31   28       99b      100       100          24        11.6          100          82         15       25.80'"
SWEDEN              79      8.3  12,250       9.0          18.2        31   11   10        99b       992      100          l8a       19.9          100          792        10ay    36.502Y
EASTERN AFRICA
NOTSWANA            80      U.8b     720b    6.3P          19.3         48   28   15       35b       94        74          32        22.0           33**         20        18        1.50
BURS NDI            81      4.2      235      2.8bw        19.0        43   28   27        25        29"       35          37        20.2           12           3"        17        1.00
COMOROS             80      O.4b     260      6.5"         25.4        40   28b  14        ---       99X       65          45        16.0           58          21"        30        1.40
DJIBOUTI            81      0.3      460      5.4          10.8         60   40   ...    10          32        ---         41        ---            60           8         19        0.30
ETHIOPIA            80    31.0b      130b    2.2P          11.12        52   32   142    15          38        ---         59        18.0           ---           9        412       5.10
KENYA               79     15.3      390      5.9"         18.0b        71   15   14       45        92        74          40        15.8           41           19        28        1.00
LESOTHO             80      1.3      410P    4.3P          21.0         51   24   25       52        64        61          49         4.0           64           17        21        0.90
MADAGASCAR          77      8.5      330      4.0"         24.0         53   28   19    5s           94b.      33          55b        8.0           38          14         23        3.10by
MALAWI              81      6.1b    230b    3.5            11.4         38   14   25       25b       62         23         65         5.8           12            4        21        0.40
MAURITIUS           80      o.gb  1,080b    6.0            11.5         39   40    7       80        87        78          22b       17.1           79          45"        21        0.40
RWANDA              80      5.0b    200b    3.2            21.3        62   17   11        23b       572       62          40        14.0            6           42        13        0.40
SEYCHELLES          78    65.Ub  1,580b    5.0             12.0        342  332  102    ---          ---       ---         ---       ---            ---         ---        ---      --
SOMALIA             78      3.8      185-    2.0"          11.0         55   10   21       50b       26bY      ---         27b       20.4           53b           4bx      16b       1.00
SDDAN               80    20.0b   478b        3.0          ---         66   39   ...    32           552-      68          34         1.4           44           13        16        .
SWAZILAND           78      U.s      650      7.1"         12.2        36   33   18        56b       80by      49a         35by       7.7           662         33bxy    202         2.00
TANZANIA            80     18.5      260       5.9         17.7         47   10   16       79b       98b       87          21        11.0           l9b           3        20a       o.oib
UGANDA              80     12.6b    300b    ---            16.1"       23b  37b  20b    48           542       61          34        ---            17            5        23        0.60
ZAIRE               78    27.5       2102     6.0"         22.0         49   26   25       15        84Y       44          421       ---            41          13x        27        I.L0bY
ZAMBIA              80      5,7b     566b    4.5P          11.1         48   23   22       44b       95        80          48        12.9           19           16        22        1.50
ZIMBABWE            81      7.7b    700b    5.1            09.5         62   32    6       44b       90        55          39        20.0           85           15        23        0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN               79      3,4b     325b    6.5w          35.0        43   21    5    Ilb           42        30          46        14.0           30          11         43        1.00Y
CAMEROON            78      8.2      590      2.9Y         16.0Y        332  43a  20a 2    --        74Y       45         s50Y       11,82          20a         14Y        26        1.30Y
C.A.R.              79      2.2      280      3.89Y        20.67Y      ---  ---  ---   ---            --       ---         652Y      ---            ---         _         ---        0.70aY
CHAD                76      4.4      120      2.4b"y       21.7b 6       -                15         25Y       ---         77        ---            ---           3xy      21        0.20Y
CONGO               78      1.5      670      9.522y       27.7ay       ---  ---  ---   ---          ---       ---         s6bY      ---            30           ---       43by      4.00aY
GAbON               77      0.6   3,420       3.7bY         8.4y        ---  ---  ---   ---           --       ---         46bY      ---            ---         ---        1gby      2.802Y
GAM4BIA             77      0.6      220      3.32          6.5b       46   252   62   Sob           40bY      902         27by      44.72          40          12b4y    17          -
GHANA               76    11.3       400      4.0y         15.5b        --- ---  ---    ---          71b.4      ---        27by      ---      -       --         36b5y    21         ---
GUINEA              79      5.3      290P    4.6aP         -5 25-  282  282   20                     34        36          38        20.02P         85           16        29        7.002
IVORY COAST         91      8.2b  1,070b    10.0           45.0        33   46   13    30b           60        86          43        26.0           47          1527y    26          1.905Y
LIBERIA             80      1.9      520      4.6          19.6        43   23   24    30            52        32          35        20.0           76          22         20        2.90
MALI                77      6.7b    180b    4.2b           21.7b        452  372  182   10           28b6y      ---        43by       ---           508          65        ---       0.90bY
MAURITANIA          78      1.6b     320b    5.5           16.9         33   43   25    17b          32        60          44        52.0           30            9        25        0.37
NIGER               78      5.2      300      4,32Y        16.62Y       52-  432   52    8           17        562         412       38.72          40           2         24b       0.20Y
NIGERIA             77    82.6       910      4.1Y          9.6        ---  ---                      ---       ---         ---       ---            ---         10Xy       25        0.17Y
SENEGAL             77      5.5      450      5.0          23.0        46   34   20    10            34bxy      ---        43by 4     --            20          10         21        2.20by
SIERRA LEONE        77      3.4      250      4.Ob         16.0b       ---  ---   ---   15b          372       ---         35        25,0b          84          15X        22        0.6ObY
TOGO                78      2.4      400      6.5q.        26.5q        308  283  21a   18           74        40          54bY      38.0           52          32b7y    48b         1.60by
UPPER VOLTA         78      5.6      180      3.0a2        19.3ay      31   16   32    ---           15by      23          53by      52.5?          19            3b6y    25         0.02Y
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA           78    27.3   2,210        2.7          10.9        432  31a  18a   93b           89         52         17        ---            87          31          8       23.00
BAHAMAS             79      0.2   2,770       5.7          19.0        36   36   11    934           99        97          24        ---            97          75         19       -
BARBADOS            78      0.2   2,680       8.5-"y       22.12       432  312  162   ggb          1OOY       99g         27Y       19.92          992         78Y        20Y      ---
BOLIVIA             80      5.4      550      4.12Y        30.5     ---  ---  ---   63              74Y       ---         20Y       ---            ---         15Y        ---      12.60Y
A         BRAZIL               79   116.5   1,770        3.8          6.2         51   ---  14    76            732Y      ---        23ay        4.5b         61*          152y      14ay    12.62b
CHILE               76    10.9   1,890        3.2bY        13.0b        -------- _        ---       llgb.y    ---          34by      ---            ---         55b4y    20bY       11.90by
COLOMBIA            80    26.7b  1,180b    3.3             25.0         35   20   20    81b          78         36         32         6.6           ---         47         20       10.02aY
COSTA RICA          80      2.2b  I,Blob      8.4          31.1         40   27   33    90           93         77         33         5.5           77          40         27       14.00
CUBA                78      9.8      --       8.0          11.0        ---  ---  --   96            112b6y    98           18by      ---            98          71b2y    15         19.02bY
DOMINICAN REP.    78        5.3   1,030       2.1Y         13.9Y 7- ---  ---   67                  ---        ---         ---       ---            ---         ---        ---      ---
ECUADOR             80      8.4b  1,110        6.0P        36.7         45   31   16    81          105        ---         36        12.6           86          47         16       29.00
EL SALVADOR         77      4.4      640      3.4by        23.1bY       64    8   27    62           92bxy    32           39        ---            41          26b4y    27by        7.90bY
GUATEKALA           78      6.8   1,010        1.72Y       12.6b 6       __  ---  ---   ---          69b2y      ---        35by       ---           69          1ibxy      l9by      5.50Y
GUYANA              76      0.8      630      8.1bY        13.8by      ---  ---  ---   ---           ggbxy      ---        32by      ---            --           594bry    ---       3.00by
HAITI               80      5.0b    230        3.4"         7,9ay       65    9    6    23b          50         20         41        19.0           622           48       27        0.80
HONDURAS            78      3.6      520       3.5by       14.3by       621  15a  19a   60           ggb9 y    30a         41by      12.82          682          21xy      19        8.00Y
JAMAICA             80      2.1   1,110       6.5          13.7         37   43   20    90           98        98          40         2.3           95          81         22        8.00
MEXICO              80    65.5   1,880         4.7         17.02        46   39   15    92           98         53         44         9.5           86           56        17       10.30
NICARAGUA           78      2.6b   6job       3.0b"        14.0b        ___  -       -   9ob         85b2      24          37b       ---            ---          26b6      30b      ---
PANAMA              78      1.8b  1,550b    5.5bs   y      21.8by       42'  132  13    82b          95by       3--        25by      11.6           852          50by      27by    20.40by
PARAGUAY            79      3.0   1,140       1.4"         14.2        42   17   20    84            83        32          28         3.1r          76          22         12        0.70
PERU                80     16.6   1,000       3.6          14.3         53   15   19    80           83        56          39         9.8           89          39         22       14.40Y
TRINIDAD & TOE.   77        1.1   3,910        4.8by        8.8bY       48   32   20    95           98         91         30        10.5?          49           62        24       ---
URUGUAY             78      2.9   2,500       2.5           9.4b        -- ---  ---   94           105b6       ---        24b        ---           ---          64b.      ---      17.802Y
VENEZUELA           78     14.4   3,440        5.1Y        18.9b       __                 82        106bx      ---         28        ---             -           38b4      17       21.10Y



*34-
Annex7
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
FEBRAR8Y 17, 1983
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                      COMPLETION            RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION       ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY               HIGNER
GNP PER '            AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE           RATIO   SCEOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO         STUDENTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (Z)    (NET)   CYCLE              PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)        PER        (GROSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  HI   (1976)    (X)             (z)     TEACBER  GNP/CAPITA       (2)          (Z)    TEACHER       (Z)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)         (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA              79   991.8       260     3.3          6.6        29   34   27       66        93        64         27         8.0          83          47        19        2.80
INDONESIA          81   142.9      370      3.o          9.1""      66   39   ---    32b         94""      68         34         1.4          44          23"       16       2.00a
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7.7"          20.8        34   34   31       96        99        98         43        19.0          98          84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA           80    14.2b  1460b    5.2           22.0        39   32   13       60b       96"       94         28        ---           84          65        27        3.70
PAPUA N.G.         79      2.9      760     5.4-        16.4 ---  --- ---    ---                58"       73         31         1.1          ---         64bm      23       ---
PHILIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    2.9"          14.0        64   36"-----    75b         84        65         31         7.1          99          55        36      21.00
SINGAPORE          80      2.4   4,420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16       83        92        82         31         8.8          96          55        22        8.00
SOLOMON ISL.       80      0.2     460      4.2P"       10.0"       41   34   20       ---       60        80         26        ---           35          18        ---     ---
THAILAND           80    47,3b    723b    3.4           20.9        59   15   13       86b       96        ---        17         9.3          59          58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH         79    92.3b       90     1.1P        10.15y      51   17   20       22b       63Y       ---        53         5.6          ---         14        23        1.43
INDIA              77   659.6       210     2.9Y         9.9")       ---  ---  --     36        79"       ---        41        ---           ---         26"       ---       8.30"Y
NEPAL              80    14,3b    140b    2.4            9.9        27   18   36       19        89"       30         38"       ---           64          14""      20"       2.08"Y
PAKISTAN           79    79.7       270     2.0)Y         5.)Y      39   26   27       24        56"       80"        48         6.5          51          20"       17        6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN        77    15.5               1.7          3.7        47   19   15       12        31by      69         37b       ---           62           8        22by      1.00Y
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770       3.8"        12.3        34"  26"  21"    35          83Y       45"        37         7.0?         55"         29Y       26        3.70Y
EGYPT              81    43.Ob    58* b    3.1"          4.5        31"  35"  26"    44          84"       80"        34         9.8"         83"         43        19       15.00"
GREECE             76      9.3   4,140      2.6'        10.6b       37   26   21       ---       97by      7__        29b        6.2? 7--                 79b.      27by    17.80by
IRAN               79    36.9       ---     5.7ay       14.1"Y      ---  ---  ---    50        1o01"      ---         32a      ---            ---         446"      24"      4.90"Y
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710       4.3aY        6.9"y -'          ---  ---    ---     100Y       ---        28       ---            ---         45"Y      29a      9.30ay
IRELAND            81      3.4b  4 480      6.3ay       11.98y      ---  ---  ---    98          93        94        29        ---            98          81       14        11.00
JORDAN             81      7,72b   ', b    4.9"         10.2        19   44   18       706     108"       85         32         7.2          91           82"      25       19.00
LEBANON            79      2.3     ---      ---         18.6")Y    ---  ---  ---    --          96"       ---        19        ---           ---         46x       ---     27.80ay
MOROCCO            80    19.5       740     6.3""       17.5"       36   44   20       28        56'y      35         39        19.7          40          25"       21        4.50
OMAN               79      0.9   3,530      3.7"-y       4.9aY      ---  --  ---    ---         45a"      ---        23a       ---           ---          7x        9      -_
PORTUGAL           79      9.8b  2,060      3.6         22.2        50   28   11       78        97        20         19"       12.8          88"         45"       17"       8.30"
ROMANIA            78    22.1   2,100       3.9by        6.2y )'       -  ---  ---    98        106b3 ---             23b       ---           98          84bm      22b      10.60by
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1y        16.8Y'         ---   ---   ---           98bY '      -        29b       ---           ---         67by      ---     24.1Oby
SYRIA              78      8.6   1,170      4.4P        10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80         35b      ---            68          41by    27b       12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130      7.oP        19.0        42   39   18       62b      100"       80         39b       12.8          30          30"       30        6.00
TURREY             79      4.3   1,380      3.6""Y      18.6        ---  ---  ---    60         105"       ---_       30a      ---            ---         41"       27        7.07"Y
YEMEN A.R.         80      6.8      420     5.0P"       12.0        94    7    7       21b       37        12"        38Y       67.0          85           3        20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.       80      1.9      424     6.0          10.5       63   14    8       40b       65        53         24        22.4          81          22        16        2.50
SYMBOLS:                                                           FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                               A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
... MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                      B - DATUM MORE RECENT THAN BASE YEAR
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                              N - CURRENT PRICES
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                     P - GDP
"*  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                                           Q - INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
***  COMBINED WITS HIGHER                                             R - CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ONLY
S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T - MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UKE3CO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Cabana 1 and 2: World Bank Atlas or ITRD ai.siona.
Columns 3 to 14:  IBRD misaioos, Goversnent sources and/or Unesco Statistincl Yearbook.
Co-parative Education Data are useful in the evaluation of various edunation systems and analysts of relative stages of educational development between various
countries.  However, on the basis of the present data, cross-national comparinon should be approached with great cantion.  Data presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions fron government aources; the remainder are staff estimates or data fro. Unesco. Efforts have bees .ade to standardize
definitions and, within limits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheleaa, soch data are still iaperfert in several respecta and the Rank is vorking to
improve them progressively on the occasion of its operational work. In the use of these data, the following qoalifications should be kept in mind:
(1) 'Education. as defined in the table includes all education and training, both formal and non-formal.
(2) -Primary" education refers to education at the first level and "secondary" education refers to all adocation at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, technical, agricultural).
(3)  "Literacy rates" (col. 6) are often obtained from country censuaes.  In many countries they are only appromimatioos and it is doubtful that any unifor
definition of "literate" haa been followed consistently.
(4)  "Public empenditure in educotion" (cola. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditurea  devoted to education by public and quasi-public
agencies.
(5) 'Enrollment ratioa" (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-time in the appropriate school,
puhbli and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error in the developing nontrise owing to variations ia the accuracy of basic
data (i.e., age-specific population and enrolloenta). Enrollment figures frequently are higher than the number of students actually in school. Over-aged
students whose inclosion is indicated by footnotes also can inflate the ratios.



- 35 -
Annex 8
Page 1
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Fifth Education Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   "Report on Agricultural Secondary Education in the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan", Mustafa Al-Qadi (1980 Alesco Report).
2.   "The Statistical Educational Yearbook, 1980-1981", MOE Directorate of
Educational Planning.
3.   "The Future of Secondary Education in Jordan - Proposed Plan" Dr.
Shafik et al, July 1981.
4.   "Tracer-Study Testing", MOE Directorate of Educational Planning, n.d.
5.   "Survey Study on Training and Job Opportunities for Women in Jordan",
M. Masri, December 1981.
6.   "The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan; Education and Training for Manpower
Development", UNESCO, July 1980.
7.   "A Report on Educational Technology", MOE, March 1982.
8.   "Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, World Bank Education Projects, A Case
Study of Effects on Women", J. Kobes, October 1981.
9.   "Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Education Sector Memorandum", World
Bank, January 1981.
B. Documents Relating to the Project
1.   Project Request (MOE memorandum to National Planning Council),
February, 1982.
2.   "Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1981-1985"
National Planning Council, n.d.
3.   "Standard Bid and Contract Terms and Conditions", General Suppliers
Department, n.d.



- 36 -
Annex 8
Page 2
C. Documents on Economic and Manpower Situation
1.   "Special Economic Report, Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985)", Yellow-Cover World Bank Report; September, 1982.
2.   "Main Findings of Advance Tabulations, Housing and Population Census
of 1979", Department of Statistics, March 1981.
D. Selected Working Papers of the Project
1.   Educational Worksheets, August 1982.
2.   Accommodation Schedules, August 1982.



Chart
- 37 -
JORDAN V
EDUCATION PROJECT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1980/81
Grade and Level                                                                                                                                                     E X
University'                                                                                                                                                     E
18                                                               20 65                                                                                ,     a~
1 7                                                              12 87                                                                                       -
18                                                          1,049  L ,328                                                                      
15                                                          1,388      1,458           
5    19     43
14                                                    6,440                        532
13                                                 7,230                            10,295
Secondary                                                l                     .a|
12                                         11       ,7 5 9                                     1 ,99
11                                18,2 54                                                           2242 2133 4                               13    66    43
Preparatory
9                           21,507                                    ..',.'' '' 25,691
8                       24,899                 5                                                        '.129,877
7rmr               287                 l3l l0l3
6 36 ,233                                                             __040,294
4   3595                 ,            6}                                                                                        2022 0
3    37.7157                                                          40,600                                                                  60   108    48
2 38,539                                                                        _041,550
1      361,036                                                         _| 012
40,000        30,000        20,000         10,000           0           10,000        20,000         30,000        40,000
'Enrollment excluding 42,800 students overseas.                                                                                               World Bank-23184



w    Al



IBRD 16831
FFBRUARY 1983
To  Nazare'.  - - t h                              Th O a m s ;,- -    S    Y   R   I   A   N
,   ThHa/fs\)        -- _                 Et59   * c-Shalara ,7               A    R  A    B
320                                                                                                                                                                             32 _
*er -. 32e  \1  X  J   /} t   t x d,,                                                                       3ARABIA
To Baheba               E        /
70 Gaza   / /4  /    (   /   . |         j      / /  N-
JORIDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GENERA~ VOCAT[ONAL SECONDARY
35         (          ha en Naq                                                st
t0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COL FOR G P   \SAD
/   / / At JM   ,  Al QaE-//  f >         / T                                                          \
S     ~,a                                                                                                                                 C  
N' ~    ~      ~      >                                    0                         Nl<   20>        40          0
9    MazaOV    ;                                                            J O R D~~~~~~~~~oooeeo  0 A  N
!    Al FUt/#g(S7//   \~~~~' l j
z > < rt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL VOCATIONAL SECONDARY
\h k,,?o  Qa' ei                                                                   TOWNS 7O   D RLL
4 e   t   Shaubakf.X|7L         s               0  i'                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL HIGHWVAYS
~~~ 11                                    v       /   ) __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND CLASS ROADS
)     ll                            ,s,   , i,lvb                       I  ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA LWAYS
Wad 'US M/t                                   El jafr ,Z <                                           WADIS
9  =               a    .1        { /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~ ~~ ~~ M> MDF LATS
)   7>/  t   Xbyfwd ,_             ,                                     -    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTEFRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\ 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1 7l        ;uv- --1
<                                                                 0 |-                      j   0          ) to / J O R D A N -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0P DA i
/' a)                                            /.                .                            CS    l. , .S'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'
\  )_                                                                                           X          j          5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJU  .A Ae-I A
/3 6lOfEeis                                                         B 



