Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3464-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$18.8 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not olberwise be disclosed without World Banki authortzstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982                    December 1982
Currency Unit                Jordan dinar (JD)                        JD
US $1.00             =          JD 0.35                              0.35
JD 1.000             =          US$2.82                              2.84
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDI=US$2.89
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOE                           Ministry of Education
NPC                           National Planning Council
ODA                           British Overseas Development
Administration
SFD                           Saudi Fund for Development
VTC                           Vocational Training Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;                   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Education (MOE)
Amount:                     US$18.8 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:              The major objectives of the project are to increase
the output of skilled female and male workers and
to improve access to secondary education in remote
rural areas. In addition, the project would
contribute to the institutional development of the
MOE, already initiated under the earlier
Bank-financed education projects. The project
would include: (a) constructing, equipping, and
furnishing of ten general vocational secondary
schools for girls as well as five such vocational
schools and three centralized secondary schools for
boys; and (b) technical assistance for training
instructors and directors, and for strengthening
MOE programs of practical job experience, career
guidance, manpower planning, project preparation
and implementation. The main beneficiaries of the
project are the secondary school age groups who
will be better prepared for employment, and
children from rural areas who will gain access to
post-primary education. The project faces no
special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/                                    Local    Foreign    Total
------    Million-------
Physical facilities
(Construction, equipment, furniture
and architectural services)
10 general vocational secondary
schools for girls                          10.8        11.8        22.6
5 general vocational secondary
schools for boys                           10.4        11.3        21.7
3 centralized secondary schools
for boys                                    9.7         9.2        18.9
Technical assistance
Specialists and
Fellowships                                0.1         0.9         1.0
Base cost                                   31.0        33.2        64.2
Contingencies
Physical                                     3.1         3.3         6.4
Price                                        9.3         9.0        18.3
Total Contingencies                              12.4         12.3        24.7
Total Cost                                       43.4        45.5         88.9
Financing Plan:
Government of Jordan                             31.6         13.2        44.8
Proposed World Bank Loan                            -         18.8        18.8
Saudi Fund for Development                       11.8        10.3         22.1
British Overseas Development
Administration                                     -          3.2         3.2
Total Financing                                  43.4         45.5        88.9
1/ The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:           Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
---------------$        Milli-on-------------
Annual                            0.77   5.48   9.08   2.37   1.10
Cumulative                        0.77   6.25  15.33  17.70  18.80
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4180-JO, dated February 14, 1983.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of US$18.8 million equivalent to
help finance a Fifth Education Project. The loan would be for a 17 year
period, including 4 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
The Saudi Fund for Development and the British Overseas Development
Administration would participate in the project financing with loans of about
US$22.1 million and about US$3.2 million equivalent, respectively. The
balance would be provided by the Government of Jordan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan"
(No. 3135-JO, dated December 24, 1980) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in January 1981. An economic mission visited the country in October
1981; its findings have been included in the present text. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy. It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in diversifying
commodity production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries and expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians
working abroad, foreign aid and capital. As a result, employment is high and
foreign exchange reserves have been steadily rising.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71 created a
climate conducive to sustained economic growth during 1975-81, resulting in an
average annual growth of GDP of about 11 percent in real terms. This growth
was in sharp contrast with that during 1971-75, which was slightly negative.
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Loan which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 15, 1982.



- 2 -
In 1981, GNP per capita reached $1,623. The upsurge of the economy was due
to: (a) the rapid growth of the mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the
sharp increase in construction, particularly in housing and large public
works; and (c) favorable external factors including influx of Lebanese
business activity and booming conditions in the Gulf countries. In
agriculture, rainfed production was sharply reduced by a severe drought during
the 1976-79 period and more recently in 1981, but vegetable and fruit
production in the irrigated areas increased significantly.
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a chronic
deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor services
increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to 1981. This
growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and vegetables in
neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods and a sharp
increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services. Jordanian
goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets because of
the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements, relatively good
quality of the products, enterprising marketing and the favorable geographical
location. Although the growth in the volume of imports was slower than that
of exports, the resource gap increased in current terms from $560 million in
1975 to about $2,318 million in 1981. These trade deficits, however, were
fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad. As a result,
Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficit, was tempered by a sharp increase in grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign assistance.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved markedly, but
public savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of
defense expenditures, largely financed by foreign grants. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion is being allowed to the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. Increases in deposit rates were
effected and have resulted in savings deposits increasing faster than money
supply. Between 1975 and 1981, domestic inflation, measured by the cost of
living index, increased by an annual average rate of 11.6 percent.
8.       A diversified banking system capable of meeting the financial
requirements of fast economic growth was developed during the last decade.
The banking system now includes 16 commercial banks and 6 specialized credit
and investment institutions. The Amman Stock Exchange, established in 1978,
has become an active institution, and the Securities Corporation, created with
IFC assistance, is growing in strength. The liberal transfer policy recently
followed by the Central Bank has encouraged growth of the financial system,
and Amman has started to emerge as an international financial center.



-3-
Medium-Term Prospects
9.       The current Plan (1981-85) aims at maintaining the rate of growth of
the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of the
investment program, the plan is ambitious--total investment would be
maintained at 33-35 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the Government.
The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last decade of
economic planning in Jordan, namely to: (a) reduce the heavy dependence on
external assistance; (b) diversify the economy by increasing commodity
production; (c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the distribution of
the benefits of growth.
10.      Medium-term economic projections indicate that rapid GDP growth,
about 10 percent annually, can be maintained during the current Plan period.
Because of an expected slowdown in factor income from abroad, GNP is projected
to grow at a slightly lower rate of 8.5 percent per year. However, full
implementation of the Plan's investment program is a key assumption underlying
these growth rates. Industrial growth will benefit from the completion of a
number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer now at initial stages
of production and would maintain an overall average annual growth rate of
about 17 percent, peaking in 1983 and 1984. Barring serious disruptions in
agricultural output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would
realize a significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors in
total domestic output and thus correspondingly reduce its traditional
dependence on the services sector.
11.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports are promising.  The
completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with the
enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982. In agriculture, the
expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase. Even though total exports are projected to maintain a high
rate of increase (19 percent p.a. at constant prices) while imports would grow
at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to increase
and could exceed the two billion dollar mark by 1985. In relation to GNP,
however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant further decline
(from 46% to 40%). Unlike the recent experience, net workers' remittances and
foreign grants may not be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit.
Jordan would therefore have to rely more on external borrowing (para. 16).
12.      Savings from private sources, particularly from workers abroad,
should continue to increase, helped by the expanding banking network. A
further reduction of the budget deficit can also be expected. Through cuts
mainly in fuel subsidies the Government is likely to attain almost 90 percent
coverage of current budget expenditures by domestic revenues in 1983.
However, the demands for increased social expenditure and the need to raise
wages to retain valuable public servants will make further cuts increasingly
difficult.



-4-
Social Issues
13.      Due to the continuing migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective manpower shortages. However, according to
the Bank's manpower projections the demand and supply for labor in Jordan
might become more balanced throughout this decade with even a possibility of
an emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1980,
out of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the
West Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be
workers, compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000. Domestic
employment includes a rapidly growing number of foreign workers currently
estimated at about 80,000 about half of whom are unskilled. The country has
expanded its education and training system rapidly but still needs a
comprehensive manpower and training plan to help ensure that: (a) the economy
does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting prospective
demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the potential
labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle workers in
rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing fast, is still
low.
14.      Social issues are now an acknowledged concern of the Government and
this new emphasis is to some extent reflected in the current Five-Year Plan
(1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively favorable
reading in most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across
income groups and across provinces. Thus, while health infrastructure is
adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years), medical doctors
are concentrated in urban centers. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups. The Government's concern about these issues has led to
the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in November 1979 to
define a coherent social development program.
External Assistance
15.      Due to large foreign inflows of remittances and transfers, the
current account of the balance of payments was on average in equilibrium
through 1975-81, and the government-guaranteed external debt has remained well
within manageable limits. Net workers' remittances increased from about
$160 million in 1975 to about $880 million in 1981. Following the Baghdad
Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about
$1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign aid rose from about
$400-500 million in 1977-78 to a record high of about $1.0 billion in 1979 and
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981. The external public debt outstanding and
disbursed reached $1.4 billion at the end of 1981; the outstanding debt to IDA
was $78 million, and to IBRD, $45 million, ($85 million, and $90 million,
respectively, when including undisbursed commitments). External debt service
payments amounted to $182 million in 1981 or 5.7 percent of total exports of
goods and services.
16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign



- 5 -
assistance. The continuation of foreign economic assistance at the relatively
high levels of recent years obviously depends on international and regional
developments. Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for external commitments close to $4.5
billion each year over the 1981-85 period. About one-third of this borrowing
is expected to be on concessional terms, significantly below the ratios
achieved in recent years. While bilateral and multilateral sources can be
expected to provide the bulk of external resources, Jordan is likely to resort
increasingly to the financial markets, and this would result in a hardening of
loan terms. On these assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of
exports of goods and services is projected not to exceed 10 percent by 1985.
Beyond the current Plan period, sustaining the rise in debt and debt service
at a prudent rate would require a slowdown in both the rate of investment and
growth, particularly if foreign grants are gradually phased out. Given its
record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.      Jordan has received nine Bank loans totalling $202 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which
thirteen credits have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have consistently amounted to about 75 - 80 percent of appraisal
estimates. The IDA credits have financed projects in key sectors, such as
education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and
tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic development
where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a
GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus
discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments in Jordan with total
commitments of $94.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and which is
being given an greater emphasis in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85).
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's social and economic objectives was



- 6 -
provided in recent years by loans for the Third and Fourth Education projects
approved in December 1979 and December 1981, the Cities and Villages
Development Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development
project approved in July 1980, the Fifth Power project approved in May 1982,
and the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage project approved in
December 1982.
20.      The Government has requested intensified assistance from the Bank to
achieve the Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical training
in order to meet the manpower needs of the economy, and provision of secondary
education in less developed regions. To continue to assist in this important
sector, a sixth education project is under preparation for consideration in
the next fiscal year. Projects are also under preparation in the urban,
industry, transport, and water supply/sewerage sectors for consideration in
this and subsequent fiscal years.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy and urban sectors, regional development issues, as well as
the export strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries. The
reports pertaining to these reviews are under preparation.
22.      At the end of 1980, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 10 percent and 7 percent respectively.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Manpower Requirements of the Economy
23.      In view of its sparse endowment of water, agricultural and mineral
resources and its dependence on manufacturing and trade skills, Jordan rightly
considers its relatively well-educated labor force to be its most important
productive asset. This labor force has not only made possible Jordan's rapid
growth performance during the past five years, but has also contributed
through migration to the economies of the labor-importing Gulf states. Jordan
exports a higher proportion of its labor force, particularly in the high skill
occupations, than any of the other labor exporting countries in the region.
The sizeable manpower outflow has led to shortages of certain skills in areas
such as construction trades and finance. In return, it has provided
significant benefits to Jordan in the form of remittances. In addition, labor
exports have alleviated the pressure for job creation which would have
normally been associated with Jordan's high population growth. Despite the
rapid growth of employment (over 4 percent per year) since 1975, employment
has not been able to keep up with the growth of the labor force (about 6
percent per year since 1975). According to the initial results of the 1979
census, the unemployment rate among Jordanians rose to 9 percent in that year
in contrast to the 2 percent unemployment rate recorded earlier in the
decade. Although the census figures, which are based on a sample survey, may
overstate the true extent of unemployment, they provide useful information



about the characteristics of the unemployed. Indeed most of the unemployed
are young and with limited education and skills. The Government's program of
rapidly expanded vocational training aims to improve the prospects of young
Jordanians, males and females, for employment both within and outside Jordan.
24.      As part of its economic and sector work, the Bank recently assisted
Jordan with manpower analysis and projections (up to 1990) based on a set of
macroeconomic assumptions reflecting the most likely economic development.
These indicate that a surplus may arise in certain professional skill areas
while a deficit is likely to occur as far as skilled and semi-skilled workers
are concerned. Because substantial demand will arise from the construction
subsector, trades such as electrical work, mansonry and concrete, carpentry,
heating, and plumbing are likely to be most required. The projected demand
for skilled workers in agriculture is expected to be concentrated in the
Jordan Valley, where the exploitation of recently discovered groundwater
resources and the rapid expansion of drip irrigation and greenhouse
agriculture, as well as a nascent agro-industry are generating a growing
demand for skilled manpower.
Female Participation
25.      Although increasing, female participation in the labor force is still
modest and varies widely by level of education. While post secondary
graduates have a 70-80 percent participation rate, secondary graduates have
only half that rate. Participation falls drastically at pre-secondary
levels. The Government is focusing on nursing and business (commercial
studies) as the areas offering the best prospects for female employment.
Recent tracer study results confirm that, together with teaching, office work
and nursing are the occupations most favored by girls and their parents. The
projected growth in demand for workers with commercial skills arises from the
continuing growth of civil service employment and employment in financial and
other services in the private sector which are experiencing rapid growth. The
projected growth in demand for skilled nursing manpower in the 1980s reflects
the major improvements which the Government hopes to make in the quality,
efficiency and coverage of health services.  In this context, the Government
plans to train 6,000 skilled nursing staff (assistant nurses) during the next
8 years, in vocational secondary schools for girls and in other facilities.
The proposed project would assist in significantly expanding skill training
for women.
Education Policy
26.      Past Progress.  The Government pursues a policy of providing
universal basic education and reorienting education and training to meet
manpower needs. Progress in the overall development of the education system
has been remarkable, especially over the past decade, and major strides have
been made towards the goal of nine years of basic schooling (primary and
preparatory levels) for all children. This is now fully achieved at the
primary level and is close to being achieved at the preparatory level. Gross
enrollments (including overaged students) at the primary, preparatory and
secondary levels represent a high 108 percent, 91 percent and 66 percent of
the relevant age groups. Female enrollments as a percentage of total



- 8 -
enrollments (48 percent at the primary level, 46 percent and 43 percent at the
preparatory and secondary levels, respectively), are among the highest in the
Middle East.
27.      The Government has been less successful in meeting its goals of
expanding vocational training. An increase in enrollment of about 80 percent
in vocational/technical courses was achieved in the late seventies. This,
however, represents only 13 percent of total secondary enrollment, as against
the Government's original target of 30 percent by 1980. Lack of facilities
has been the principal cause of insufficent progress. The Government now aims
to attain the target level by 1985. The 1981-85 Plan puts heavy emphasis on
vocational training facilities and the Government has requested the World Bank
to take the lead in preparing appropriate projects and to play a catalytic
role in drawing other sources of assistance to the sector. The proposed
project represents a significant step in that direction.
28.      Current Objectives.  The Government's main objectives in education
and training as expressed in the Development Plan are (a) to expand basic
education (grades 1-9) from 91 percent in 1980 to 94 percent in 1985, (b) to
channel secondary-level students into vocational specializations so as to
achieve 30 percent vocational secondary enrollments by 1985, (c) to reduce, by
more than 20 percent by 1985, the proportion of illiterates among the
population less than 60 years old, (d) to improve the quality of education
through upgraded teacher qualifications, improved curricula and teaching
materials, replacement of rented schools, and elimination of double shifting,
and (e) to provide the trained manpower necessary to meet the evolving demand
of the Jordanian economy and that of other Arab countries. A closely related
goal is to expand labor-force participation, particularly by Jordanian women.
These are reasonable and feasible educational goals.
29.      Educational Finance.  The Government has adopted an ambitious program
of investment to expand education and training capacity at all levels. The
Plan allocates about $700 million to implement priority projects in education
and training, including university education. This expansion implies an
increase in the recurrent costs of the education system. Between 1975 and
1979, the recurrent cost of public education under the Ministry of Education
(MOE) increased at the rate of 11.6 percent per annum in real terms, compared
to a 7.5 percent yearly increase in enrollment. The share of educational
expendituire stabilized at around 11 percent of total public recurrent
expenditure during 1975-79.  Based on projected enrollment increases,
recurrent expenditures in education in 1980-85 are estimated to increase by
about 6 percent per annum to a total of about $157 million or about 9 percent
of total public recurrent expenditure in 1985. Total recurrent and capital
expenditures for education would amount to about $185 million in 1985 (in 1979
prices), which represents about 5 percent of the projected GNP and about
10 percent of the Government budget. The Government can be expected to
sustain this expanded level of expenditure, in view of the high priority
attached to education.



-9-
Issues
30.      Given the successful development of the basic education system,
objectives in that area are likely to be attained on or ahead of schedule.
The constraints are mostly in secondary education and, in particular,
vocational/technical training. Government needs to expand vocational training
and to encourage enrollment in vocational streams. The implementation of the
education projects in the Plan would expand vocational facilities. However,
care should be taken to ensure that the training in these facilities continues
to be relevant to the job market. Key measures to that end would include
supervised practical job experience as a complement to classroom and workshop
training, continuous monitoring of changing employment prospects, and prompt
feedback of information on job prospects into training. They would also
include student guidance at the preparatory level based on employment
prospects. The Ministry of Education (MOE) has recognized this and intends to
replace the current practice with a better one based on the above measures.
The proposed project would assist the Government in these efforts.
Sector Institutions
31.      The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formal education
institutions and training which includes primary, preparatory, general and
technical secondary, and post-secondary polytechnics and community colleges.
The Ministry has developed good project implementation, supervision and
maintenance capability and continues to strengthen its relevant departments.
The universities are autonomous and governed by their own boards which are
responsible for establishing general policy guidelines and determining each
year the number of students to be admitted to the different faculties. A
number of other Ministries, in particular the Ministry of Health and the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), an autonomous government agency
affiliated with the Ministry of Labor, are active in training related to their
special fields. The VTC is responsible for the in-plant apprentice program
conducted with the cooperation of employers and for a skill upgrading
program. However, the expansions of VTC programs, although planned, are
constrained because of the limited training capacity available with
employers. Together with this, there is a vigorous effort in job-oriented
training provided by the private sector. There are, for example, 20 private
community colleges which offer post-secondary courses, principally in
commercial specializations.
Bank's Role in Education
32.      The Bank has extended two credits ($5.4 million in 1972 and
$6 million in 1975) and two loans ($19 million in 1979 and $25 million in
1981) for education projects. The first and second IDA-financed projects are
completed. The implementation of the third Bank-financed project is underway
and the loan is largely committed. Construction of the trade training center
and design work on other institutions are progressing under the fourth
project. These projects were designed to assist Jordan in improving the
quality of education, providing basic education to all relevant age groups,
establishing appropriate manpower training and increasing vocational training
opportunities for women. Institution building has been a prominent feature of
the Bank's operations. The planning and project implementation capabilities
of the Ministry of Education were vastly expanded. The Ministry is now



- 10 -
approaching the capability of handling all of its school construction programs
with minimum external assistance. The above projects have also assisted the
establishment and refinement of the comprehensive secondary school
curriculum. In addition, they have contributed to the alignment of
technical/vocational programs with the labor market. These projects have also
introduced modern evaluation systems for the various schools and
institutions. A system to trace the placement of graduates of the project
institutions was also developed and is operational. The third project was
particularly useful in improving the planning and management capablility of
the MOE by providing a research and evaluation mechanism and a computerized
management information system to be used as tools for planning and modern
management.
33.      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494, Sec.M79-336) on the
first project noted the institutional impact of the project in many areas,
including educational planning, and concluded that the project was justified
and worthwhile. The recommendations of the Report have been adopted,
including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of technical
assistance, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing of
implementation, and more extended training in management and administration.
34.      Following the improvements envisaged under the proposed project and
under another follow-up project which is in preparation for FY1984, the Bank
expects the institutional capability of the Ministry of Education to be
sufficiently advanced to carry out various development programs on its own.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.      The proposed project was identified in November 1981 and prepared by
the Government in the first half of 1982 with Bank assistance. The project
was appraised in June/July 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
during January 31 - February 4, 1983. The Jordanian delegation was led by
Mr. Nabil Sweis, Assistant Secretary-General, National Planning Council. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Fifth Education Project - Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan" (No. 4180-JO) dated February 14, 1983, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
Report and in Annex III. A map showing the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives
36.      The main objectives of the project are to increase the output of
skilled female and male workers, which Jordan urgently needs, and to improve
access to secondary education in remote rural areas. In addition, the project
would contribute to the institutional development of the Ministry of
Education, already started under the earlier projects in the areas of
curriculum development, tracer studies and information management, through
substantial strengthening of the Directorate of Projects and other
directorates which participate in project preparation and implementation.



- 11 -
Project Description
37.      The project would include (i) construction, equipping and furnishing
of 10 general vocational secondary schools (grades 10-12) for girls as well as
five such vocational schools and three centralized secondary schools (grades
7-12) for boys; (ii) training of instructors and directors for the above
project institutions; and (iii) fellowships and consultants services for the
Ministry of Education to expand its job experience program, to reinforce and
expand its career guidance program, to implement regional manpower planning
t             and tracer studies, and to further strengthen its Directorate of Projects.
General Secondary Vocational Schools
38.      This type of institution is being introduced under the Bank's
previous education project (Loan 2068-JO). The vocational programs were each
formerly provided in separate secondary schools for industry, commerce,
agriculture and nursing. Administration and training will be more efficient,
due to consolidation and more intensive and economic use of equipment and
space. After school hours, classrooms will serve adult education and
in-service teacher training. The general vocational secondary schools will
offer the options of a three-year secondary course and two-year trade training
course in specializations selected according to employment prospects. The 10
girls' schools (total enrollment of about 3,800) will offer three-year courses
in business and nursing, and two-year courses in dressmaking and cosmetology.
Tracer study results and other information show strong prospects for female
employment in these professions. The smaller size and greater dispersion of
the girls' schools is designed to facilitate attendance and employment closer
to the girls' homes. A total of nine industrial specializations would be
offered by the boys' schools (total enrollment about 3,900) in electrical
utilization, industrial electronics, auto mechanics, instrumentation, central
heating and plumbing, farm machinery, carpentry, welding and sheet metal, and
construction. The training programs would be designed with due regard to the
requirements of the regional economy. Three of the boys' schools will be
situated in rural areas and will offer three-year agricultural programs
focussing on plant production and food processing. By offering agricultural
training in diversified vocational institutions in rural settings, the
Government seeks to improve the quality and motivation of agricultural
students, and to increase the likelihood that agricultural graduates will
practice farming. Sites for all schools have been selected through a
*            comprehensive school mapping exercise which takes into account projected
graduates from preparatory schools as well as intake capacity of other
secondary schools in those areas. The sites for the schools are well
distributed regionally, ranging from Irbid governorate in the North to Maan
governorate in the South and covering both urban and rural areas.
39.      450 teachers are required for the vocational secondary schools.
Jordan's teacher training facilities are able to provide these teachers. The
general subject teachers would be recruited from the graduates of the
University of Jordan, Yarmouk University, and the community colleges. The
projected output from Marka Polytechnic under the Fourth Education Project,
totalling 300 industrial teachers per year beginning in 1986, will be
sufficient to meet the teacher requirements in the industrial
specializations. Teachers for the nursing program in the girls' schools would



- 12 -
be recruited from the graduates of the existing post-secondary nursing
programs of the Ministry of Health, the University of Jordan and, beginning in
1986, the Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute which is being
developed by the Ministry of Health under the Fourth Education Project.
Teachers for the business specializations would be drawn from the University
of Jordan, the teacher training institutes, and the several community colleges
which offer courses in business, accounting, and commercial subjects.
Teachers for the agricultural specialization would be recruited principally
from the graduates of the Faculty of Agriculture program at the University of
Jordan. Teachers for the dressmaking and cosmetology specializations in the
girls' schools would be recruited from the students scheduled to receive
training abroad in those specializations under the Fourth Education Project
technical assistance component. In addition, technical assistance would be
provided under the proposed project to send the chief instructors in each
specialization on study visits or fellowships abroad to guide them in setting
up the vocational programs.
Institutional Measures and Technical Assistance
40.      The General Vocational Secondary Schools will substantially expand
the manpower training capacity of Jordan. However, the mere existence of
these facilities is not sufficient for reaching the training goals. The rapid
expansion of trained manpower will require additional efforts by the
Government. The programs of the schools are closely geared to manpower
projections based on evidence available from tracer studies, from the recent
study of manpower demand (carried out as part of the Bank's review of the
1981-85 Development Plan) and from other sources. However, to ensure that the
graduates of these programs continue to be readily employable, it is essential
that students be provided with practical job experience as part of the
secondary vocational education program and that employment prospects be
continously monitored in order to provide prompt adjustment of programs,
career guidance, and suitable allocation of students to available
specializations. Accordingly, the proposed project includes technical
assistance to the MOE for three important activities: (i) to expand and
strengthen the limited program for practical work experience during school
vacations (study visits and expert services); (ii) to strengthen career
guidance and to extend it to the preparatory level as an input to selection of
secondary vocational specializations (one fellowship); and (iii) to reinforce
tracer study capacity and to develop regional manpower planning in the
Ministry of Education for continuous monitoring of employment prospects
(fellowships and expert services). In this connection, the Government has
agreed to extend its practical experience program to all vocational secondary
schools by the time the vocational schools in the project become operational
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).  It has also agreed to extend the existing                 *
tracer study system to include the project schools and to provide the Bank
with the results of these studies for five years following the first output of
these schools, as well as to strengthen the existing tracer study capacity
through the employment of a statistician experienced in survey methods and
analysis by no later than December 31, 1983, (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
To improve the process for allocating students to secondary school
specializations, the Government would provide career guidance counseling for
preparatory students by the time the vocational schools in the project become
operational (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). MOE is currently developing an



- 13 -
aptitude test. It would exchange views with the Bank on this work and on the
possible use of such tests in admitting students to the vocational secondary
schools.
Centralized Preparatory/Secondary Schools
41.      The three new centralized schools for boys, combining preparatory
(grades 7-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) education, support the Government's
t            effort to improve access to further education for graduates of primary schools
in remote rural areas. These remote settlements are too small and too
dispersed to justify separate post-primary schools. The proposed project
schools which are to provide boarding facilities for students from distant
settlements, will replace a number of inadequate preparatory and general
secondary classrooms improvised in existing primary schools and will provide
additional student places which will help bring the low level of enrollment in
remote areas -- estimated at 70 percent in preparatory and 30 percent in
secondary -- closer to the national average enrollment rates of 91 percent and
66 percent, respectively. Based on the experience of the centralized schools
under the proposed project, the Government intends to establish additional
centralized schools (including girls' schools) to serve other remote areas of
the country. The curriculum for the proposed schools, which has been reviewed
and approved by the National Board of Education and the Bank, would be the
same as that used in all preparatory and general secondary schools. The
preparatory curriculum includes two hours per week of pre-vocational
activities (such as industry, agriculture, commerce) in which students are
provided with a general vocational orientation through guided practical work
in schools' vocational workshops. Similar pre-vocational/general programs
have been successfully implemented under previous Bank-financed projects.
42.      The locations (Irbid, Maan and Amman Governorates) and sizes of the
proposed schools have been determined on the basis of a detailed school
mapping exercise. Total enrollments in the three centralized schools, which
are to operate on a double-shift basis, would be 2,520. Boarding facilities
would be provided for the 1,260 students who would come from communities more
than ten miles distant from the schools. The schools would require a total
staff of 100 teachers, about half of whom will come from the classes to be
discontinued in inadequate facilities. An adequate number of teachers are
expected to be fully available from the graduate output of the community
colleges and universities.
Project Implementation
4            43.      The project would be implemented by the Directorate of Projects of
the Ministry of Education (MOE). The proposed project would reinforce MOE's
implementation capacity by providing experts for layout of workshop equipment
and preinvestment studies, as well as fellowships for upgrading staff in
procurement procedures, preparation of visual aids for vocational instruction,
development and application of standard architectural design elements, school
location planning, and techniques of in-service and industrial education. In
order to assist in the implementation of the project, the Government agreed to
assign by December 31, 1983 to the Directorate of Projects, two procurement
officers, two accountants, two quantity surveyors, an architect and a civil
engineer (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The Government would provide the



- 14 -
Bank with a final draft of the fellowship and expert recruitment program by
end December 1983 and implement this program thereafter. All lana for project
facilities has been acquired.  Work on final equipment lists and
specifications, togetner with architectural designs and bid documents for
construction and equipment, is in progress and is scheduled to be finished by
November 1983. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1987.
Accounts and Audit
44.      The Directorate of Projects maintains separate accounts for earlier
Bank-financed education projects and will also establish one for the proposed
project. Maintenance of accounts for the earlier projects hias been orderly
and systematic. Project accounts are audited annually by the Government's
Audit Bureau which fulrills the Bank's requirements. As in the past, audit
accounts would be submitted to the Bank in a timely manner.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
45.      The total project cost is estimated at about $89 million (base cost
is calculated in mid-1982 prices) of which about $45 million (or about
50 percent of the total) is in foreign exchange. Cost breakdown by components
is given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Cost estimates exclude import duties and taxes. The project is exempt from
these. Physical contingencies are estimated at about 10 percent of the base
cost and price contingencies at about 26 percent of the base cost Increased by
physical contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to increase
8 percent in 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 ancd b
percent thereafter. Local costs are estimated to increase 9 percent in 1982
and 1983, 8 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and b percent thereafter. On
the basis of recent experience, the cost of consultant services is estimated
at about $11,000 per man-month for expatriates (20 man-montihs) and about
$6,000 per man-month for local recruits (9 man-months). These amounts include
salary, fee, overhead, international travel and subsistence. Overseas
fellowship training (192 man-months) is estimated to cost $3500 per man-month,
inclusive of international travel. As is the case with previous Bank-financed
education projects, it is expected that about 60 percent of the construction
contracts and all the furniture contracts would be awarded to local firms.
Most equipment would be directly imported.
46.      The proposed loan of $18.8 millioni would finance the foreign exchange
costs of: (a) constructing, furnishing and equipping the boys' centralized
secondary schools; (b) equipping the girls' vocational secondary schools;
(c) architectural services; and (d) technical assistance. It would cover
about 21 percent of the total estimated project cost. The baudi Fund is
expected to finance the construction costs of 8 vocational secondary schools
amounting to about $22 million equivalent. Due to the magnitude of the Saudi
Fund contribution, signing of a loan agreement between the Government and the
Saudi Fund would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). The British Overseas Development Agency is expected
to finance the equipment needed for the vocational secondary schools for boys,
amounting to about $3 million equivalent. The Government would finance all
remaining costs.



- 15 -
Recurrent Cost of the Project
47.      When fully operational, the project institutions are estimated to
require about $3.5 million annually in incremental recurrent costs, including
the cost of expendable materials for the general vocational secondary
schools. This would correspond to less than one percent of the projected
recurrent expenditures on education in that year.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      Civil works (about $10 million), furniture (about $1 million) and
equipment (about $6 million) to be financed by the Bank would be procured
through international competitive bidding under the Bank guidelines.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 and which cannot be
bulked for ICB and items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be
appropriate, would be procured under government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank and would include, to the extent possible, quotations
from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The aggregate value of such
contracts would not exceed $1.6 million. In the comparison of bids obtained
under ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference equal
to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15
percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
49.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 47 percent of expendi-
ture on civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures on directly imported
equipment and furniture, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for
locally manufactured equipment and furniture, and 85 percent of local
expenditures on locally procured imported equipment and furniture; 10 percent
of expenditures on architectural services and 90 percent of expenditures on
technical assistance and fellowships. In order to expedite preparation of
architectural designs for the project, design contracts for all schools have
been awarded and awards were won by local consultants. Retroactive financing
of $300,000 is recommended to cover expenditures for such consultant services
incurred after July 31, 1982.   The closing date of the proposed loan is June
30, 1988.
Benefits and Risks
50.      Given its large-scale skill exports and rapid economic development
Jordan rightly attaches a very high priority to manpower training. Having
S         achieved an impressive record in providing basic education to its entire
population the Government now concentrates on improving secondary training,
which requires urgent construction of facilities, and improvements in the
*         operation of relevant programs.  The 7,780 places to be provided by the
proposed project vocational schools would play a key role in achieving the
Government's quantitative goal for expanding secondary vocational education.
Together with the increased capacity which will be available following
completion of the secondary vocational components of the third and fourth
Bank-financed education projects, they would comprise about 52 percent of the
projected increase in secondary vocational enrollments by 1987 -- from 17,242
in 1981/82 to 44,000 in 1987/88. At the same time, they would contribute to a
doubling of the vocational share of secondary enrollments, from 16 percent in
1981/82 to 32 percent in 1987/88. In relation to current vocational
enrollments, the greatest gains would be made in the area of expanded female



- 16 -
vocational instruction. The Government is also concerned with providing
preparatory and secondary educational opportunties to the inhabitants of
remote rural areas. The centralized schools would be a step towards solving
this problem in a cost effective manner. The Government intends to build
similar schools in other regions and also for girls. Experience gained under
the proposed project would be invaluable for this purpose.  Technical
assistance provided under the proposed project would further strengthen the
MOE's implementation capability. It would also ensure that the vocational
facilities fully serve their objectives. The project does not entail any
unusual risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributea
separately.   Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Signing of a loan agreement for about $22 million equivalent
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Saudi Fund for Development is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
52.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 24, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 17 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG,
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              97.7                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL       14.7                                 MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      ..       380.0    1420.0/               1253.6                   1902.0
1NERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      183.7        269.2      522.3                 713.5                   1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1695.0        2299.0    3244.0
1 URBAN POPFLATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7                             49.6       56.3                  47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          5.8
STATIONARY POPLLAT1ON (MILLIONS)                          12.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        17.3         23.5      32.0                  35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANI'   132.4         163.6     212.7                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
u-14 YRS.                          44.4         45.8      46.5                  44.3                      39.7
15-64 YES.                          51.5         51.0      50.8                  52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.1          3.1       2.7                   3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0       3.4                   2.8                       2.4
URBAN                               5.2/c        4.5       4.7                   4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH HATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.4         47.6      44.4                   41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSANR)      19.9         15.5       9.7                   12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.6       3.4                    2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          220.0         79.0     106.0                 100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.2         67.3      61.6/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           60.9         40.2      40.3rd                71.9                      66.0
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.6         10.7      11.0/d                18.0                     34.0
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.3         12.4       5.8                   15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0          54.1      61.2                  56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           135.5         97.5      69.3                 104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCEST OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              21.3           *       61.0/c                59.1                      65.6
URBAN                              48.6           ..      66.c0                 83.1                      78.9
RUKAL                               2.1           . .     50.0o7                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETE VISPOSAL (PERCENT
SF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                      75.3
q                    sCCUR                                 ..           ..        ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PES PHYSICIAN           5804.7       3775.0    1956.4                4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1930.2/e    1477.5      821.0                1802.2                    1063.5
POPLLATION PEk HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             557.0       1351.5    1186.8/d               641.7                    477.4
HURBAN                                                    . .     1097.6      687.2 d               538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                .        5543.6        ..                2403.3                    1903.4
ABMISSIONS PEE HObPITAL BED            ..         36.5      45.7/d                25.5                      27.3
AVTEAcE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                               5.3          6.1       6.7/c
URBAN                               5.5           ..
RURAL                               5.1           ..
AVLRAGE NUlbEc OF PERbONS PER ROOM
ToIAL                                ..           ..       6.5/c
URBAN                                ..           ..
hkLAL                                ..           ..
ACCLSS Ti) ELELTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGC)
IOTAL                              17.0           . .     66.0/c
RSBAt                              39.2           ..      90.07.                          
RURAL                               1.4           ..      30.0                     .



-18 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA b             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL   /l            77.0        72.0/c   102.0/c                88.7                    104.3
MALE                 94.0         79.07`   106.07T               104.5                   106.4
FEMALE               59.0         65.0/c    99.0/c                72.0                   103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                25.0         33.0/c    74.0/c f              39.7                     41.3
MALE                 36.0         41.07T   81.07                  49.3                    40.4
FEMALE               13.0         24.Od7-   66.07                 29.0                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  2.7           3.0/c    13.0/c                10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.1        38.8/c    32.2/c                34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                          20.0        23. 07    20.6Th                23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        32.4          ..      70.0                  43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THdOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.7         6.7      19.6/d                17.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        37.8        160.9     171.5                 131.3                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        20.0      52.8                  44.1                   107.7
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  18.3        24.4      29.3/d                31.5                    63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          0.9       4.0                   1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      432.3        568.6     768.9
FY4ALE (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6       6.5                  10.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              44.0        34.0      20.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                26.0          9.0      20.0                  27.8                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                25.5        24.7      23.7                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 46.7        45.5      43.4                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                               2.7          2.8       3.1                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.9         2.0       2.1                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URMAN                                ..          ..     230.0/d               279.2
RURAL                               ..           ..     100.0/d               178.6                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..    206.0/d                403.6                   518.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     135.0/d               285.6                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE.
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      14.0                  22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      17.0                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   East bank only; /d 1977; /e 1962; If Includes preparatory education ages 12-14 years.
/1 1981 estimates given in paragraphs 26 and 41 of this report.
May, 1982



AMI14EX r
- 19 -                                                                  Page 3of 6
OOPUNITIOWS OP SOIlu 155fId008
Retest  AlnhanI.   t- aaaedrm   m sotr  eeal   cdt   iens  stoe-s  o   etbs  ft easld slat be --te  that thy , stbeoer
esefoe1iy co.eparabl  b -oss  ot the look of  Ctdodaicad dafiotot          an  Pot.et oad by  -t1rve oatrs   a coLiectiag the data.  The dat   r,  as
thad eac  oafot to dascihe orders of                 idgitd, l-d t  tretdn. 34 cbroctario-.I crrti    , e loaifteace btaer.    cotr.e
Th. refer-c  droops a-  (1f  cod e.  ..ou.try &roty of the subect coc rysd (ll a country groop with s                     bnta  igh-r avrage tn-.  that the coory troop
of the  oIet,, co-ty  saay  for   'high I.to.    31.1 orriro   gr 1obre 'Middle to-e  forth Africa sad Middle last0 is cho-w  becus  of aitegar
sajroy o  te  ocoris teaoo   ro  dco  o0chr   tnioc               -   hro . b  r-vrec  of  -ottrias osag  h.b  d i        diatr  dand. on the tnafltblirp  of data
en1d ieotsifr,coit   cch   `roroedf    Lroltlg               Iaoia f o-  lodicator rr  -nt-. f. snua  aeolytso  tocoPriug the re-is  of
Totl.  - Tota-  eorfoc-on  coycetg  od or-  jd ila-d  -ton.cs; 1979dutuho,adraldidd by  iter;  resato    use   floetalbd
aatttltua    fecsalsof  gricuwrorlce   toad  -ea-raly or p-ea rly                       prdal  ocbo   n  pr_ost  oesa  sad speclola  h-eitl. so  re-
fur crps, potons ksrfc -d kityar gardaca or to ha folly; 1979 data.                            tailittuon rtea   Hospitals one et1bli:h-ste pssa.ni  staffed
by at Isa..t on  pbyeacis.  ieboitiisaeen  providIg"pelripallp cero-
GNP PhiCEIR fUS   CRY P.r ccyl-                    -ocora  ttr-re  arkc prce,ca-dta  care are not  Weludad   Rura  leepiole. however  iaciude helth
colatd hysernacoe_rito  outtd oa World huol les117-Oh heelel1; 196,0.                      o   eialcnesot  eeoel   tafd Ih    htu                         (hut by
1970, et  1980 dora.7sdia  ned desar,  urst   lle.et) which offer in-pedat'l  .ta
WItan  sad prn-fda n liIted reags of -ditel facUlties.  FTn  sc.ia_
EONEW  COSWtfPftiOt Pt CIAPia-IAuo   cnvro   f cirilsrr(o-i                                       cclyra           ra toapIfLa -I,ood  tOts rrnlrieeeaih itais.
sadlgia  rac -lon   oua..ot  oud cydro-,    le  so1eteolae-                                     an   ua oPitals, bo-s  or caat1 sptla-d medical sa  eetrnitp
lrrtrfc   t               -trentO a   -qiealtct pr Lcyt;tIAO, 190,h tad 1079                    rrr   Spe.ttlT.sd hoepirate era L-idad otly ctdertt
frehsisel  dfvided by the nohr of hede.
POPUIATION dOl VITAL, STATISTICS
tota   "ooaft   id-trt(boten  -    Isf July 1; i9tt, 1970. an  1960                        la(1I196
date."-                                                                                     detae  ie   f  osshi                   .=-sa  e   onaad -. tota.lbl,  h al n  rural-
Urh"  Porl-tn  (troact ci toTal) -   rtta  cf erto  to rera  popuIlutto;                        A   _oshldtaafeof agoP cf idvdat                      h tre iveg 1     arer
dLftfrotdf     Iiio   o   hn        -tu   ay oft-   -op-acbhlity of dar                       ad thao main nets.  A ited-r or Lodg,r  sy or say oat he autdad LIi
A                          asang toontrine; _.g 1961 l9TS, too 1960 data.                                                ch.  I-IoahAd for sgarttatlos  purpas.
P..oiait  Prrfcoiae                                                                           Ovrae   betr of persos        oo    total, ochet and rua-1 aaee  o'
Piuaioi   oj I!-CrotPopulatica projection   Ic.sdt  1930                                     beoo  perone  pe  roo  in   allboh. and c-ra  c..tcn d oeetb
ital. rpoluItito  r ago sod -e  u4 chair -etrocy sd Torci"iorcge..                         del ins., tespettoi-y.  liestiegs  -.I.a" r-prene  siatrssd
Pvojen         --o p   Laset  f r-socta y  -bto  topin  fcrr  sta  et-onuotd parts.
level, ned feal   ife Ineron -ptot-ling ni77.5 pate    ha Ptna-                            C.oaoos  d1t-gswt    tonitbt1 t  lieteg q-tattrs    pr.ttetge
fact t-onry is  te  .-anoad  -c  fi tbo...    cebI uutoofecralitty                     toUtATOn
nd fetil ity  _rede f or prejecclo  popaaAdluatad taroilset Rtatto
Stttor  peralatt     - ucoct ovr)popoIlatto  trr.int  on gSetl sttePsy e e  -  oal                                      1e. end fwle   C-- Toe 1oa. ale end tfals
the birth rate Ta rq-1 to tht isath rote, ond gist cbs sir  _uooe   aor -leo  of oIl ages ut the priry level us pe-c-gs of r-spettiva
salo   -t-utt   Tyas it thitard only oftar ltrtollOy rans  ecin  to                           Pransay  etataepoyntlai1-n; normlly i             s  chil.dren age  6-u1
nh. rrpla=art  eve  oI ualt ve  raProdartian trn, viha  rucI gertvYear  but adjound for diftfe-e  lsegtha of psi-ry edanatoa  far
of qen    lae  itself  -ttty.  The cgati.coy poialo    ltea                                   oatfssth  aiverset adacate   -et11et eay noed fIG parcert
e-ietted oIth ~hietofth  prjto    hccetrc                    f the  I p   tuitosnee..                    p ptis are halo. or shav  the offUiae    boo1 age.
in the y-a  100,sd teratr of tol.n            f te-tilino  rutt  rplac-                    Soctudar   toi-taa.ml  a  teals - Ca tstd Os shav;  -etod.t
atot level.                                                        education ~~~~reqires at les  fou  Ier   f approve  prise, in-ractia;
Tear saiar   ooaiti  ote                   The Veto wh-n art.iovey prpyniatto                   prvdsgsea,vttua. orteaher trtag  n-etln   a  paPll
tua  iull hate-rtot.                                                                         canIyo  12 - 17 yors of nettrsyuao   ore   ra geer-lp
Per eq. km. - Od-year poytl-tl- ?sr  -.r. fil--ta   130 hceos   f                          tanolerisot(rrnof  -aod.rvl  V-.rtatoaltsttt
toal   960 lR, 10750 ad 1979 dott.                                                  incuettecl-Id.rn,o   throorewIh  prt   oeed
Pt   q  t.ortcitorn   =atd - tospuou  us shoo  frotoctotr.Id00                          "It ors   ssnet   faeodr    atngo
etly; 1060. 1971 I'oat 1929  data.I rtl.testhsrti  - ptiaary. and seodary -Ttlsoet   nnldt
Popaltton  uc Otueroc  Troroucl- Cths.-dr  il-is y-rsc,wetig-te110-                   proary and -esoedry levl  dIdd b7 uttar  oFtseeo the
hI pga I  sd  etrd (hi  rest  rod  onfatcetosof add-pee  PIPt-                          torrtopendiglevls
Lema  194,17.ud 10th) -ot.                                                                 adurlt utera        rate Trr....   Lntsete  dalc  lai  ra read sta I-mn
'Poonintlon  rowh is(to (ntt)- betul ~-   ul. grnh cat-  of total aid-                          se  rpr-tesg. of totsi adult pnpLinto   aged 15 yean ad. ver
your  p          Ilafu  a  1950-oi. LO9W-Ti, uo1920-Op.
_oeein  rwhRta  (or_-ct   -bthtt  Aun,ul  .-oo   ranra of Irbton yoyo-           COifrIO
19toefo   ob-0.16-,nd 1006.                                                           asnorTeslorttasdpy lattl - Pa.s.1ge  tare cogries   -rto
Cruda  trth  ane (pr chnaudl- -onulIco  blmb   per thausod of eid-ys                  ar   ntiglsete  egtpesn;  aldass.                      lts  hearse  sed
poyulamtou; 1930, 1971. wod 1981~data.                                               siliZeyvtile
Crodo Iteah hate (Per  tonal- 1aas  darho Pe,rh that    at ni-certdie  atter   ee   honoud poenlatiou   - ALL tvoa  of teveafor radio
Cpopulating; 19061  1907, sod 100dt.hudetst  g-na-  public Per nhooed of poaata;  nldes-
her- -eca  oecdntitto         L pa idIf  hra otcrio-sP  Irsr  ag-,r?t It ten-                 eta   a      efet  data for tesa  ysa   may vet ha tpesebl.  iu
ttliryrsces;itetsip  Ties-peer aoatsoeetdoon  it 1100  1970. sod iOta.         ost tetoerrues ablished rct,tehod
Psadly Patting   ,itctottopn, dotal(chtatede A-.houn   otter ai-acptors         TVioevr             l 0   heonud peonlatto) - TV r-ntvrs for hbsdcsatIt
of hlrth-onrrol detoes cade  stoptctsci ectinol. taeui  PIe_l   rctnrsa-        gsrlPsti  per choas-d 'prlacto-;  -sttdaaoliaed  Prteo
Ps-tit Pta-to  - lre  Icttc   aietre  ost  -                        Iecurg   f married          tocsisadinYeass                   eiteino   Ost   sf   fet
ann   t child-boettu0 ss   1-A4 parTotocnltt-oro   de-ln-t reeNep.or Ctr-aataa  frttotanp-tltln       ine the aee-g  tic-
all earrindweoi  ton ag  groo.                                                               clto   o   dty  eua  inte.rse                    dep r. dfined aseperiadi-
pdaioube dvoedPrIsely to _ends.oa  Lsae.  as              t te tanstesd
MM0 AiND oIPITiOin                                                                              toh  'daily" if us  ppeare en  eas  ftt  tine s mask.
lode ifPondPruoccut t, Cato  loo02ieitT      ltso o  pe  tapta  onua  lies  .oon  Att   _rtt per Cpoia ret Tn-r- Based on ths sibes of
prodctis o  al  fod edtiea.Preoncon  otldeesan  sa  ted ad          ttbas.sid dating the year. ionlding sdatai... to drti-in tinem
is on caleder yre boata.   G_nditi_ covr prie_ty gnods  ..  .oa.a....nil   nta
1macad ciogr)thlch  ra odib-o sod cotain                     (..ietle. cnffeo td
te   r   tlodedy.  aggregAte prodotiot of each coun try LA base.d -n130PE
naita  uerg  prdcrPrice,i vtoba  161-Al  1970. sad 1900 deta-                        Totel L,-a Porte Tthaonsade  - kos....ItaIly active peru.  including
tn  ootosary  f aoro  (prri                f euitna   -  Ccratnd tc-                           a      oea nd   -epIloyed hot sodding  hT-naie, students..eo
perda.  he-ilebla  tPrlc  to..    i   d-esetu  p-odoton, Is            ..e.os              cat copeershi; 1960. 1q70no  1980 data.
ec -r. dn  hagn  tsok,ntstpe                                                                                                                    If d.suna.ed.aes  rsl  Tecat  -essIAn   oca-pronea  ftta   aortrs
oonifis  rd it f-sd pr-teedg, nod Innate in dde-rzutin-   BIia0u                         giutr   rran  - Lbar,I tou  in famg  forestry, huting and
antsvet   tatltd hr Plc hsn  no. pbe gcl reds Cur ott-se  atu-                             Oftb0  oprt`a fttu   aorfre  1960, 1 971 sa  19   data.
etysd henlth  -oidetlig  -i--osattl tsyttoe, dy  -elat., age                                Itduetry(ecnt  -Labor tot-t lig    ourtiu    vfattrilg
ea  snd tsrhto   ciyyue          Ic             -Zonc  in ce.t..t for sui   tsd eluc-                       iY. aster ond gas e  pert_tag. of totalI shbr tome.;
ho..ohld 1-1o; 1961-65, 9OI sod 1077 ioa.                                                      -01   00sd 1980 dens.
tsr cu lea  tor1v  l praeto Tcoat ot noe  - rrol.L  cones  of par -orota        tstetato    usTrrst   ttl   l, r                       ftn s-Patcpeiso
tentpplyof lfond Per day.  Own .opplyif fond it defisada  aoe Or-                           ctoyraeaetttdstns,el,ndoalslbor f-ru  a
qorneno  o  al _ontrios  -stali.trd by USDA pro-idr far onoim                        p-rcotag-oe at onal  maI  and _Tee    pop.isto   at: all oee             ttly;
ailcencat  t 01  ras  t t 1t P, yrnin yet day nod 10 grom   t  tnu    d               1960, 1970, 30  1080  as        sueiun   nI~    aripcat rte
pus   rti,o   hich1 -fam   oollbeslat  pc-i.mn   tn-rflectionnr-a  st                                       Itfea   h  ponado            d long tInL  trend.A
utde ate lowe  cha  tine.. cc 25c3   Ottl  rai n1 gin.aA   E             of                  fee  etlnets ore fr_ottalsucs
auilat PrtIono totee    r roerd   rpe byP. WIn the Third                                   Ococal Oupeedey Ratun - R.".o of papa1Ltu   odrdo  15td 65 tad ave
-Iod food  trS-y; 1961-65  i970 004 1071 daco.                                               to the cool labor forts.
Fa tous  roe          - ool  free..- otle .l .o tus-Proctin  oupyy of food de-
ner,ditre  otelsen   uls.. in ures  rer dy-I1*1-5 -1970 sod 1977 data.                   iOCOMO DIthfllJTTtO
Child Tuosa i-A)M ah onto (tar  fina-adl  A- oo            dnoths pretrhouauod to            O.Eerttag. at Prioo  tao. btht  cs                sa     ld) - daceisd by richase
ate ..opl- 1 ~Yrttn. r hbldt.oI  hoi.bteuge 0eepfecatsrd-cltpingrna--rrert,ciehee201pe -cen,paoretlsatt.                                           dpans   4....ee
cries datu dert,d tree lute cabins; 160, 1920  nd 1080 data.                                 ofhosoda
HEALTHi                                                                                      POUPTT TARGET GROUP
tire  =tatctt   t  libinoo     Yuoaoateso    ..ar  oflt   ngnt                               Ite iouaeug aItteaevr   trott   eom                         f  ovcplevels,
atbirth  i961, 0%       cd 1087   dt0                                                          ad  hould he Ineprtdwihcnadrble c-oi-n
of ag  -o-ttuud lire tirth.; 1060. 1970 end 1980  aa                                         Odet-r   oor 1icmelee  is thet int---I. I Ive  bolon whichs  omI
doteeba bts ntec   int-el c  ocoulateol    tota, acon, ad rral    ton       oattcinrllyodeqata dwo py essoetdlon-foo  reqicefunad5 5t
bar of people. (total. crhb, sad roal  eith -eenobla sotestelsofrdb
votr sapply Ttloe   reatd-        ura   veter  or  barntdot tuc-ttlotd                     F_ginto  Xolatlv  Pnvety   oa Level This per capita) - urban sad rural-
mate  s.-h astht    rro  otrecrd bocrodla. sprinos. and a           o  vello) en             mel-    nav  poverty iota I..  ve  to t-thurd of averag  per capita
Iarsatge  of their c              PpstvetPu-tI-us   To so ochbt ars a pulic                  P-rson-L iL-ow   of the -nutry.  trbsa level Is derived trot the rura
"osa    raadpo tIaced act maethu00 macse  froeg bons ma  h-lve  rich adlone-t for highon cost of lingoin L rItaarb                                     e
ronidarad as being sith         roe ral  acn  If that heave   in ruen1 er...taso   vplc    Balsa Abeotae Povern  tac.. Iso   rwoe)     r
tasusble  -tes  so1l  mely thot the h--ngif. ar ~ar    of nhe heneheld                      anrul-Psegofpuatnttheadueiee   e0bott
4o _ut have ncsso.     di,    tortnore   ut of nIh  day  in f-thin0 the
f  Ite  t  oopl  It-mo.  -ra           j;0rrl  nerved ht  -oc.05 dtapo-lu
p--rncges of the irrseclepu,toa tor    diposal map i-Iod
th   ulotaaan   anoal   i  ur -save  cs te , of    a  esaroa
sad wste-satr by wlrboo   yen    nr the ns Jo pit prviesj atd sld-
lar Ln..i.sr~tnns-
Poanla1ianprftecat-Pplta Pdoiaid by ottr at praneting  bhyni-                                                                     temmcsd herial Bate oilefa
teasqaiff fe  fre  a eedkta.  etbat .t..foeetl  leve,.                                                                 fta-..L.       e    sodu   Pjtas  sepseta
PnnleaeP r laet    P.nto-   tptlio  410140  by ute   of prsossin                                                                     NMy f1962
sal  sd  emle  rauae  orts,ouaesm nes,  turtial nuse  sad



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JORDAN - ECONOlIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.4 million (1961) /1
GNP per capita:  US$ 1,623 (1981)
Amount                                                           Annual Growth Rates
Ildicator                0   (zillion US. at                               Actual (at 1975 prices)                           PToiected (at 1980 prices)
current prices)
1981                        1976      1977       1978      1979      1980          1981 /3  1982        1983      1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            3,675                        25.0       5.9       9.8        10.9      10.8           8.2      10.8       10.7      9.8       8.9
Agriculture                    213                       11.9         .7      15.0      -23.1      19.3          -3.6       5.0        4.0      5.0       5.0
Industry                      999                        22.9       5.2      22.2.       27.6      17.1           5.0      16.0      21.0    18.5        14.0
Services                    2,080                        12.9      -1.6        9.9       12.4       5.7           9.5       7.0        7.0      7.0       7.0
Consumption                       4,211                        16.5       4.1      14.1        12.4       -.3          13.9       9.3       8.1       7.9       7.2
Gross Investment                  1,578                        41.6      28.2       1.5        16.9       9.3          16.5      28.1       9.6       2.2       4.2
Exports GNFS                      1,655                        52.0      21.6       9.4        20.1      21.8           4.0      13.7      19.7    16.5        14.9
Imports of GNFS                   3,770                       36.8       17.4       6.9        18.7       4.2          15.1      16.9      12.3      8.7        9.0
Gross National Product            4,493                        37.6       3.2       5.2         9.5      10.9          10.2       9.8       9.0       8.2       7.1
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                            115.0    129.0    143.9         156.8    172.6          191.7 /6
Exchange Rate                                             3.01      3.04       3.26       3.33      3.35          3.07  4  2.84 /4
Share of GNP at Market Prices (%)                                    Average Annual Increase
(at current prices)                                             (at constant prices)
1971      1975    1980        1985                          1971-75      1975-80     1980-85
Gross Domestic Product                                          95.0      82.1      80.9      87.9                             -0.1        12.3          9.7
Agriculture                                               12.2       7.6        5.4       3.8                             5.1          3.5         4.9
Industry                                                  13.3      19.2      21.0       30.6                             9.7        18.7         17.1
Services                                                  60.0      53.4      46.4      41.9                             -0.5         7.7          7.0
Consumption                                                    113.4    109.3       94.3      92.4                              1.5         9.2          8.5
Gross Investment                                                18.0      25.9      32.6       34.8                            11.9        18.5         10.1
Exports of GNFS                                                 15.2      35.4      43.7       60.6                            16.1        24.2         16.1
Imports of GNFS                                                49.7       87.8      89.6    100.8                             11.9         16.2         11.7
Gross National Product                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                                  3.6        12.6          8.5
Net Factor Income                                                5.0      17.9      19.1       12.1
Gross National Savings /5                                     -13.4       -9.3       5.7       11.0
As % of GNP
(at current prices)
1971          1975           1981           1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                          18.3           24.1           20.3           20.4
Current Expenditures                       31.0           36.6           25.9           25.4
Deficit (-)                               -12.7          -12.5           -4.6           -5.0
Capital Expenditures                       11.4           23.1           17.0
Foreign Financing                          19.9           34.1           21.8
of which foreign grants                  18.1          29.3           18.1
1975-80       1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate                            12.6            8.5
GNP per capita Growth Rate                  8.0            4.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate             16.5           11.6
ICOR                                        4.3            4.8
15arginal Savings Rate /2                  12.7           14.6
Import Elasticity (gooNs)                   1.29           1.22
/1  East Bank only.                                                                                                                                      EMENA CPII-D
/2  Based on gross national savings, and GNP, at current prices.                                                                                         January 1983
73 Preliminary constant price estimates.
/4 Actual.
73 GNP minus final consumption.
i6 Estimate.



-21-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                          Actual                                                       Projected
1971       1976       1977        1978        1979       1980       1981        1982        1983       1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services           113       1001        1203       1437        1819       2491        3205       3823       4778        5845        7080
Of whichz Merchandise f.o.b.         32         207        249         297        402         574        742         900       1283        1674       2115
Workers remittances       15        411         470         520        600        792        1042       1207        1405       1625        1875
Imports of goods & services          275        1330       1714        2065       2872        3452       4550        5491       6644        7846       9046
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.    213            1020       1376        1497       1957        2393       3237        3976       4787        5585       6469
Workers remittances          -          20         46          65         80         154        159         202        257         321        393
Net transfers                         102        381         504        347       1046        1335       1321        1000       1200        1000        600
Current account balance               -60         52          -7       -280          -7        374        -26        -867       -667       -1001      -1366
Private direct investment              -5        -10          11         56          26         31         144         90          99        109         120
MLT loans (net)                        23         71         190        189         193        232         234        585         942       1072       1425
Official                              --         70          86        112        143         240        225         588        747         500        657
Private                               --          1        104          77          50         -8           9         -3         -5         572        768
Other capital                          37        -54        -21         278          69       -281       -299         -21           6          6           7
Changes in reserves                     5        -59       -173        -243       -281        -356         -54       -186       -180        -186       -186
International reserves               251         551        724         967       1248        1604       1658        1844       2024        2210       2396
Of which:  Gold                       28         80          81         81          82        208        198         200        200         200        200
Reserves as months of imports          11.0        5.0         5.1        5.6         5.2        5.6         4.4        4.0         3.6        3.4         3.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                  25          91        214         223        270         308        335
Concessional loans                 25          80         94         119        151         133        140
IDA                              3          6           9          6          13          9           3
Other                           22         74          85        113         138        124         137
Non-concessional loans              -          11        120         104         99         175        195
Official export credits          -          3           3          8           2         97          87
IBRD                             -          -           -          -          4          23          19
Other multilateral               -          -           -          -           7         14          19
Private                          -          8         117         96          86         41          70
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         137        410         623         841       1048       1266        1423
Official                       137        361        469         609         765        993       1146
Private  -                       -         49         154        232        283         273        277
Undisbursed debt                   44        274         563        828         881       1237         857
Debt service
Total service payments              6          27         38          58         96         133        182
Interest                         2          8          15         24         40          58         81
Payments as % exports               5.3         2.7        3.2         4.0        5.3         5.4        5.7
Average interest rate
on new loans (W)                   --           2.4        5.9         6.2        5.4         6.8        3.1
Average maturity
of new loans (years)               --          25.6       14.4        17.9       21.1        14.8       15.7
Average grace
of new loans (years)               --           6.6        3.5         5.6        4.6         3.9        4.5
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
Maturity structure of debt outstanding                     at end of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturities due within 5 years                                         58.9
1Maturities due within 10 years                                      122.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                         6.6
--  Data not available                                                                                                                   EMENA CPII-D
/I  Preliminary estimates.                                                                                                               January 1983



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - EXTERNAL TRADE
Indicacor                    (million US$ at                                                        AnualI Grovth Rate
current prices)                         Actual (at 1975 prices)                              Projected (at 1980 Prices)
1981                   1976       1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
EXTERNAL TRAODE
Merchandise exports /1                    518.1                  37.4       27.3       6.7       22.5       22.9       13.8       13.0       30.5       20.5       16.3
Primary                               315.8                   32.1       13.1       5.5       16.1       26.2       12.7       11.7       37.3       15.4       14.7
Manufactures                          202.3                   58.3       73.9       9.1      35.6        17.0       15.8       15.8       15.8       33.6       19.9
Mercnandise imports                     3241.7                   39.4       24.2      -1.3       10.5        7.8        7.4       16.2       11.3        8.3        7.9
Food                                  479.6                  70.2      -14.2      25.8        8.9         7.1       9.1        11.6      14.4        11.8        8.1
Petroleum                             539.9                  24.3       19.1    -13.2        30.3       42.3        16.4       14.0       16.5       15.9       13.9
Machinery and equipmenc              1278.1                   27.1      43.5      -3.4      -11.7       13.6         7.6      25.1         8.5        2.0        3.4
Other                                 944.1                  35.6        39.5     -9.8       27.5       -3.4         7.0       10.7       10.7        9.8        9.0
PRlCES                                                                              (1975= 100)                                             (1980= 100)
Export price mic-                          --                    90.0       86.1      85.8       90.2      106.9      104.9      112.7      123.3      133.4      144.9
Import pice index                        --                   104.1       112.2    114.8       133.5      150.4      106.5      112.5      121.7      130.9      140.4
leems of trade index                       --                    86.5       76.7      74.7       67.6       71.1       98.5      100.2      101.3      101.9      103.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (I)                       Average Annual Growch Rates
(at c_rrent prices)                                    (at constant prices)
1971     1975      1980      1985                     1971-75      1975-80       1981-85
Exports ,1                                                  100.0    100.0       100.0   100.0                      12.9          22.9          18.8
Primary                                                   77.0      79.8       66.2    51.0                      14.2         18.2           18.4
M.aufactures                                              23.0      20.2       33.8    49.0                       8.4         36.7           20.2
Imports                                                     100.0    100.0       100.0   100.0                      11.3         15.3           10.2
Food                                                      28.8      22.2       18.0    17.7                       5.7         16.5           11.0
Peterleum                                                  6.3      10.6       17.1    18.4                       7.9         19.0           15.3
Machinery ccc eqoipme-t                                   21.1      31.6       27.9    22.3                      31.0         12.0            9.3
Other                                                     43.7      35.5       37.0    41.6                       5.4         16.0            9.4
Share of Total ESports 101         Share of Total Imports 17)
DIRECIION OF TRADE                                               1971        1975        1980       1971        1975        1980
Developcd market economies                                       16.5        17.6         8.4       61.1        62.6        62.8
Developing market ecoonmies                                     82.1         70.2        89.7       32.4        29.2        34.5
of  0hich Arab countries                                      75.8         42.4        46.5       21.9        19.8        17.7
Cestrally planned economis                                        1.4        12.2         1.9        6.5         8.2         2.7
EMENA CPII-D
/L  ExcLuding re-exports                                                                                                                                   Jansary 1983
/



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
----US$ Million-------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower         Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Hashemite
Thirteen credits    Kingdom of
fully disbursed    Jordan                                        66.1          -
639    1975              "             Tourism                     6.0         1.1
780    1978             "             Water Supply III            14.0         2.1
1617   1978          The Arab
Potash Co.       Potash Extraction 35.0                  0.2
1688   1979          Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan        Power III           15.0                1.8
1781   1979                           Education III       19.0                15.9
1826   1980                           CVDB                10.0                10.0
1893   1980                           Urban Development 21.0                  19.8
1986   1981                           Power IV            25.0                25.0
2068   1982                            Education IV       25.0                24.9
2162   1982 a/                         Power V            35.0                35.0
TOTAL                                                   185.0   86.1        135.8
of which has been repaid                  -       1.5
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/            185.0   84.6
Total undisbursed                      132.6    3.2       135.8
f
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. Does not include $17 million loan
for Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project, signed on
January 17, 1983.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Year            Obligor          Type of Business      Loan     Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles           1.6       0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.             Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7         88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate               Building Materials      2.5       0.7       3.2
1979     Jordan Securities      Money & Capital
Corp.                   Market                           0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                          0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                             83.6 1/  10.6       94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                     51.1 1/    -        51.1 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   32.5     10.6       43.1
Total Undisbursed                              9.5       0.3        9.8
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 639;    Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodations and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well as
the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the Basin.
The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance. The
project is completed and the loan is substantially disbursed. No change is
expected in the closing date.
Cr. No. 780;    Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$14.0
Million Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), to expand water supply and sewerage
services in Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The
project consists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225
km of sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m.3 reservoir,
15,000 meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage
services resulting from the project would help to improve sanitation
conditions in the city and protect groundwater resources in the Amman area
from pollution. Overall physical implementation of the project is proceeding
satisfactorily, with principal project contracts completed and additional
sewerage works underway. AWSA, with technical assistance from USAID, has
prepared a program for strengthening its operations.
(
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems that are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1617:      The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consists of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. The project was
inaugurated in March 1982 and the plant started production in September 1982.
The loan is fully disbursed except allocations for two letters of credit.
Loan 1688:      Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82 Power
Development Program whose long-range objective is to progressively inter-
connect the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an economic
and reliable national power system. Specifically, the project would supply
the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining
works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution
loads in Central Jordan. The project is largely completed. No significant
problems have been observed in the project's execution.
Loan 1781:      Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of
January 21, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: March 12, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Ministry of Education. Construction has
started on all but one project schools and bids have been invited on the
remaining school. A contract has been signed for the hardware and software
for the management information system. Procurement of furniture and equipment
is proceeding on schedule, as is the technical assistance program. Although
project implementation is well underway, disbursements have lagged behind
appraisal estimates because of delays in the start-up of the management
information system and construction of schools. The loan is now largely
committed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1826:      Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project;
US$10 Million Loan of September 8, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: March 31, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project would help establish CVDB as a development bank for
municipalities and villages, and provides a line of credit to finance eligible
subprojects over a two-year period. It also includes a technical assistance
component to: (i) train CVDB staff; (ii) undertake a study of the ways and
means of increasing productive projects in local communities; and (iii)
provide an advisor to assist CVDB's management. CVDB has encountered problems
in staffing its appraisal department. This has delayed CVDB in appraising and
proposing subprojects for financing under the loan. While these constraints
still require close monitoring, CVDB's performance is improving. About
30 percent of the loan is committed. Staffing problems and possible remedial
measures are under review. With further alleviation of these problems,
project implementation should accelerate.
Loan 1893:      Urban Development Project; US$21 Million Loan of
September 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; May 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project includes: (a) provision of about 5,000 plots under three
sites and services schemes benefitting about 41,000 persons with low to
middle-income; (b) upgrading of four low-income settlements in the City of
Amman; (c) small business assistance and manpower training; (d) consultancy
services for project management, design and supervision and studies; and (e)
provision for maintenance services and purchase of equipment. There has been
good progress in acquisition of sites and staffing of the project executing
entity. Response to bids called in 1981 was unsatisfactory. The bidding was
repeated, and contracts for upgrading works were awarded in June 1982. The
plot development component has not progressed as expected due to the
Government decision to review the design standards. This issue is now
resolved and the implementation of the component is expected to start shortly.
Loan 1986:      Fourth Power Project; US$25 Million Loan of June 22, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness; March 17, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project includes: (a) construction of about 160 km of 132-kV
transmission lines; (b) construction and extension of five substations, with a
total transformer capacity of 619 MVA; (c) extension of the urban distribution
network, including power supply to three low-cost housing developments; and
(d) electrification of about 20 villages around Amman and 30 villages in the
Central and Southern regions. Procurement has begun and is proceeding
satisfactorily.



-28-
ANNEX I I
Page 6 of b
Loan 2068:       Fourth Education Project; US$25 Million Loan of
January 20, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: June 17, 1982; Closirng
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project includes: (a) construction of a polytechnic, four
vocational secondary schools, one trade training center and one
nursing/paramedical training institute; (b) extension to an existing
polytechnic and conversion of two teacher training institutes to cormmlunity
colleges; and (c) technical assistance for above schools and for development
of comprehensive secondary school curricula and programs.  The construction of
the trade training center is underway, and on schedule. Tender documents for
most of the other schools have either been issued or are under preparation as
scheduled. Disbursements are expected to accelerate during 1983.
'oan 2162:       Fifth Power Project; US$35 Miillon Loan of August o, 1982; Date
of Effectiveness: (not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project includes construction of a power station in Aqaba, a
transmission line between Aqaba and Amman, and consultant services for
engineering, erection, supervision and initial operation. Work on
effectiveness conditions is underway. Bids for equipment are being
evaluated.
Loan 2213:       Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$17 Millioon
loan of January 17, 1983; Date of Effectiveness (not yet
effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
The project includes improvement of the water supply network,
construction of sewerage facilities, storra water culverts, maintenance
workshop (including equipment), and provision of technical assistance for
project implementation and institutional improvements.  Tender documents are
under preparation and work on effectiveness conditions is underway.



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare        Six months from January
the project;                                to June 1982.
(b)  The Agency which has prepared the           Ministry of Education.
project;
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank   September and November
and date of first Bank mission              1981.
to consider the project;
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;  June 15, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;         February 4, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.              July 29, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Signing of a loan agreement for about $22 million equivalent between
the Government and the Saudi Fund for Development (para. 46).
Other Undertakings:
(b)  The Government would provide practical experience program for
secondary vocational students (para. 40).
(c)  The Government would extend the existing tracer study system to
include the project vocational schools and will furnish to the Bank
the results of these studies for five years following the first
output of these schools; strengthen the existing tracer study
capacity through the recruitment by December 31, 1983, of a
statistician (para. 40).



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government would provide career guidance counseling to
preparatory students (para. 40).
(e) The Government would assign by December 31, 1983, the following
additional staff for the Directorate of Projects: two procurement
officers, two accountants, two quantity surveyors, an architect,
and an engineer (para. 43).



a,  0  m              l        i
/O                             \                                                                              a V A'' 1    1   s  a   //\\                     a\   ^  \
R m s;  /   <   u         4     1     z 5     > N               G        . ps     D-
."/ 00 ~~~~N_ 7''  a'vDc\



