Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5240 
Project Name 
Iraq Fiscal Sustainability Development Policy Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
40% general pub admin; 30% banking; 30% social safety nets 
Project ID 
P119214
 
Borrower(s) 
The Republic of Iraq 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
October 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 5, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Iraq is facing challenges which are commonly found in countries at lower income levels.  They include: (i) 
excessive dependence on one primary commodity, namely, crude oil; (ii) significant infrastructure reconstruction 
and rehabilitation needs; and (iii) 
declining absolute standards of living.  Iraq’s success in stabilizing its 
macroeconomy was an important step towards reversing this situation.  Much more progress is needed in 
diversifying its economy and in generating sustainable livelihoods for the majority of its population. 
 
Revenues from crude oil exports account for about two-thirds of Iraq’s GDP and for almost all export and fiscal 
revenues.  Volatility of international oil prices means that Iraq’s oil export revenues will also be highly volatile.  
Crude oil export revenues are projected to drop by about 38 percent between 2008 and 2009, in light of recent 
developments in international oil prices.  In particular, Iraq’s oil export price is expected to drop from an average 
of US$91.5 per barrel in 2008 to a projected average of US$ 55.6 per barrel in 2009. 
 
While in the past Iraq was regarded as one of the most developed countries in the Middle East, wars, sanctions 
and weak governance have contributed to a marked deterioration in Iraq’s standards of living in more recent 
years.  For example, among MENA countries, maternal and infant mortality in Iraq are closed to those for 
Djibouti and Yemen, which are IDA countries.  Furthermore, school enrollment rates have declined over the past 
decades as a result of low quality of and low returns to education.  Iraq’s poverty headcount index is relatively 
high at 22.9 percent.  However, with a poverty gap of only 4.5 percent, Iraq’s poverty is shallow.  This means that 
a
relatively small amount of resources–through income growth or transfer mechanisms–could lift most of the poor 
above the poverty line.  
 
Budget support to Iraq should be seen in context of inherent political vulnerabilities the country faces which could 
be compounded by the fiscal difficulties created by the revenue shock brought about by steeply declining oil 
prices in the wake of the global financial crisis.  Financial support will help stabilize Iraq fiscally, a prerequisite as 
the country enters into an electoral period. Smooth economic and political transition is critical for all stakeholders 
in Iraq.  
Together with the new proposed Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF, World Bank support is needed to sustain 
an adequate level of public expenditures in Iraq to strengthen the delivery of key public services and rebuild 
infrastructure.  Reflecting lessons from the experience of other post-conflict and fragile states, Iraq public 
spending is impacted by severe fiscal cuts that can undermine stability and security as insurgent groups could 
exploit the weaknesses of a State undergoing a fiscal crisis.   
Success in mitigating the impact of fiscal crisis on Iraq’s economy will involve a combination of additional 
financing and fiscal adjustment.  This DPL would help relieve the immediate financing pressures on the budget, 
and would also help focus energies in key reform areas for the adjustment process, both in the short and medium 
Page  2
terms. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objective of the proposed DPL is to mitigate the impact of the current fiscal crisis on Iraq’s economy and to 
support its medium-term economic reform program, thereby helping Iraq achieve fiscal sustainability and reduce 
its fiscal and socio-economic vulnerability to sudden drops in its oil revenues.  Indeed, its fiscal and current 
account position deteriorated significantly with the fall in oil prices, generating a financing gap for the period 
2009-2011 in the order of US$ 5 billion. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed pillars are: (i) strengthening budget management and prioritization; (ii) reforming the financial 
sector; and (iii) improving the efficiency of the social protection system.  All three areas are clearly consistent 
with the ISN themes, support key aspects of the Government’s reform program and reflect the Bank’s 
comparative advantage. They are underpinned by ongoing Bank-supported investment operations as well as past, 
current or planned AAA work.  In addition, reforms in these areas can help mitigate some of the more extreme 
effects of oil dependence and revenue volatility.  
 
Benefits 
 
The Program includes the following main benefits: 
·
Provision of urgent financial resources. The first benefit would be the provision of urgent resources at a 
time of need.  It is also an important operation for the Bank’s partnership with the Government, to support 
Iraq at its time of need, while providing a window of opportunity for a longer term engagement. 
·
Strengthening the administration. The DPL would support the rehabilitation of some of the State’s core 
functions in policy planning and public resource management.  It would support the implementation of 
reforms leading to a stronger institutional capacity in Government and a more efficient allocation of fiscal 
resources.  By raising fiduciary standards it would reduce the implementation risk of all projects, 
including this operation. 
·
Supporting the environment for private sector and governance reforms.  Another benefit would be to 
reinforce and step up the improvements in the currently weak banking system, which is necessary for 
building up the private sector and it would also support policies that would help improve governance and 
transparency. 
·
Pave the way for a medium and long term engagement on key policy reforms.  Given the situation in Iraq, 
since reengagement in 2004, the Bank, as well as the rest of the international community, has largely 
focused on urgent reconstruction needs and institution building. This operation would move toward the 
more medium and long term policy reform dialogue the ISN sets out. 
·
Signal to other donors.  The Bank’s support to the Government in the form of the DPL would be a 
catalyst to release IMF resources, and other donors to accelerate their support.  The DPL and the IMF 
SBA would be mutually reinforcing, reflecting complementarity of donor assistance and the operation and 
each of its Pillars would support harmonization of donor assistance by the Government to improve overall 
aid effectiveness. 
Risks  
 
The Program faces significant risks, which include: 
 
·
Political, economic and security risks
.
The ability of the Bank Group to engage with Iraq would be 
adversely affected by a reversal of recent, hard-won security gains or by deterioration in the political 
Page  3
environment either in Iraq or in the Region.  Furthermore, Government’s commitment to the reform 
program supported by this DPL could be weakened by a sustained increase in oil prices or by the election 
of a new Government (elections are due in January 2010) with a radically different agenda.  The operation 
has, therefore, been designed as a single tranche DPL with a possible second one to follow the elections in 
January.  It has also been designed to be realistic, while opening the door for the Bank to engage with the 
Government in the medium to long term on critical issues to improve Iraq’s fiscal sustainability. 
 
·
Fiduciary risks
.
Weaknesses in Iraq’s institutional environment create fiduciary risks.  To mitigate these, 
the Bank is implementing the Public Financial Management Reform Project, which will help strengthen 
the Government’s fiduciary environment for budget support by supporting improved allocation, 
execution, transparency and accountability in the mobilization and use of all public resources. The Bank 
is also conducting a fiduciary assessment to accompany this operation.  It has adopted specific measures 
to reduce fiduciary risks, mitigate weaknesses in the control systems of Iraqi agencies, and compensate 
for a difficult operating environment, which limits travel throughout Iraq.  In addition, the DPL will 
benefit from the arrangements made with the IMF on its SBA, namely, (i) an agreement between the CBI 
and the Government clarifying responsibilities with regard to servicing the debt to the Fund; (ii) 
verification of the CBI’s international reserves as of June 30, 2009 by an external auditor; and (iii) 
completion of an external audit of the 2008 CBI accounts.   
 
·
Technical capacity risks.
 Lack of technical capability among key Government agencies to implement 
the reform program present another source of risk.   Companion technical assistance projects in each of 
the three pillars are designed to help build the requisite capacity. 
 
4.    Environment Aspects 
This operation is a development policy loan in support of a program of reforms for which the environmental 
requirements of OP/BP8.60 apply.  Overall, policies supported by the proposed loan are not likely to have any 
significant direct effects on the environment and natural resources and safeguard policies (such as OP 4.01 
Environmental Impact Assessment) do not apply to this operation.  
 
5.    Tentative financing 
The proposed loan will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy support
 
and will be 
disbursed in a single installment upon loan effectiveness.   
 
Source: IBRD 
($500m.) 
 Total 
$500m 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Jorge Araujo 
Lead Economist – Iraq, Syria 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 202-473-5404 
Email: jaraujo@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, D.C., USA  (IBRD) 
 
Sahar Nasr 
Lead Financial Economist 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 5772+215 
Email: snasr@worldbank.org 
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD) 
Page  4
