Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB5247 
Operation Name 
First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
40% general pub admin; 30% banking; 30% social safety nets 
Project ID 
P119214 
Borrower(s) 
The Republic of Iraq  
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
December 14, 2009 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
December 1, 2009  
Date of Board Approval 
February 9, 2010 (to be confirmed) 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Republic of Iraq
—with an estimated population of about 30 million —faces substantial development 
challenges.
 
Chief among these is the need to build its infrastructure and institutions after a tragic history 
of authoritarian rule followed by war and occupation, a task made difficult by the prospect of political 
instability and the excessive dependence on one commodity, crude oil, for its revenues. 
 
Revenues from crude oil exports account for about two-thirds of Iraq’s GDP and for almost all export and 
fiscal revenues.  Volatility of international oil prices means that Iraq’s oil export revenues are highly 
volatile.  Crude oil export revenues are projected to drop by about 40 percent between 2008 and 2009, in 
light of recent developments in international oil prices.  In particular, Iraq’s oil export price is expected to 
drop from an average of US$91.5 per barrel in 2008 to a projected average of US$55.6 per barrel in 2009. 
 
Wars, sanctions and weak governance have contributed to a marked deterioration in Iraq’s standards of 
living in recent years.  For example, the infant mortality rate in Iraq is close to the rates in the MENA 
region’s poorest countries, Djibouti and Yemen.  Furthermore, school enrollment rates have declined over 
the past decades as a result of low quality of and low returns to education.  Iraq’s poverty headcount index 
is relatively high at 22.9 percent.  However, with a poverty gap of only 4.5 percent, Iraq’s poverty is 
shallow.  This means that a relatively small amount of resources–through income growth or transfer 
mechanisms–could lift most of the poor above the poverty line. 
 
Iraq’s macroeconomic performance over the past few years has been sound.  After spiking at 65 percent 
in 2006, inflation has been kept at a moderate level.  Despite sharp food price increases in the first half of 
2008, inflation was contained at 6.8 percent by end 2008.  This has allowed the Central Bank of Iraq to 
ease monetary policy by reducing the policy interest rate to 7 percent in recent months. 
 
Iraq successfully concluded a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF in December 2008.  
Implementation of the SBA program supported Iraq’s macroeconomic stabilization process, leading to 
much lower levels of inflation and dollarization of the economy.  Successful completion of the SBA 
triggered the release of the final tranche of the debt relief agreed with the Paris Club. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The objective of the proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) is to mitigate the impact of the current 
fiscal crisis on Iraq’s economy and to support its medium-term economic reform program, thereby 
Page  2
2
helping the country improve fiscal sustainability and reducing its fiscal and socio-economic vulnerability 
to sudden drops in oil revenues.  
More specifically, the project supports the following objectives: 
·
Helping bridge the financing gap created by lower oil prices  
·
Strengthening budget management and prioritization to enable more efficient and effective use of 
Iraq’s own resources; 
·
Strengthening the financial sector 
·
Helping to cushion the social impact of lower oil revenues by reforming social safety nets and the 
pensions system 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Iraq’s current fiscal difficulties
 
were triggered by the revenue shock brought about by steeply declining 
oil prices in the wake of the global financial crisis.   
 
The Bank and IMF support will help stabilize Iraq fiscally.  Together with the new proposed Stand-By 
Arrangement with the IMF, World Bank support is needed to sustain an adequate level of public 
expenditures in Iraq to strengthen the delivery of key public services and rebuild infrastructure.  
Reflecting lessons from the experience of other post-conflict and fragile states, Iraq public spending is 
impacted by severe fiscal cuts that can undermine stability and security as insurgent groups could exploit 
the weaknesses of a State undergoing a fiscal crisis.   
Success in mitigating the impact of fiscal crisis on Iraq’s economy will involve a combination of 
additional financing and fiscal adjustment.  This DPL would help relieve the immediate financing 
pressures on the budget, and would also help focus energies in key reform areas for the adjustment 
process, both in the short and medium terms.  The Bank is supporting the Government in the adjustment 
process, both directly and through its participation in the design of the new SBA with the IMF.  In the 
reform areas described in the previous section, Bank support to the adjustment process is critical for the 
success of the financial turnaround. 
In addition to assisting Iraq with a short-term financing need, the DPL would open the doors for a 
medium-term reform dialogue with Iraq.  The ongoing Bank assistance and policy engagement to Iraq 
create the opportunity to consolidate well-defined areas for reform, providing the basis for a strong 
medium-term reform program for Iraq.  
 
The importance of a medium-to-long term focus cannot be overstated.  Although Iraq is facing a short-
term cash-flow problem, its current fiscal woes are a symptom of a medium-to-long term issue: an 
excessive dependence on oil revenues and the consequent socio-economic vulnerability to abrupt changes 
in international oil prices.  A reform program needs to contain measures that can also help make inroads 
into longer-term development goals that help address Iraq’s vulnerability to such high degree of 
instability in real per capita GDP.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed loan will be the first of programmatic series of two Development Policy Loans (DPL) of 
US$250 million each, totaling US$500 million.  The first DPL is to be disbursed upon effectiveness. 
 
Page  3
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The responsibility for implementing the program in Government rests with the Ministry of Finance 
(MoF).  The MoF is responsible for the implementation of the DPL operation as well as for coordinating 
the actions among the concerned institutions (such as Ministry of Planning and Development 
Cooperation, Central Bank, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs).  Together with MoF, these 
institutions collect the necessary data for the identified monitoring indicators.  The MoF and the Bank 
have agreed to monitor the progress in the program supported by the DPL and its evaluation will serve to 
inform preparation of a next Bank assistance strategy for Iraq, succeeding the current ISN. 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
Benefits
 
The Program includes the following main benefits: 
·
Provision of urgent financial resources.
 The first benefit would be the provision of urgent 
resources at a time of need.  It is also
 an important operation for the Bank’s partnership with the 
Government, to support Iraq at its time of need, while providing a window of opportunity for a 
longer term engagement. 
·
Strengthening institutional capacity.
 The DPL would support the rehabilitation of some of the 
State’s core functions in policy planning and public resource management.  It would support the 
implementation of reforms leading to a stronger institutional capacity in Government and a more 
efficient allocation of fiscal resources.  By raising fiduciary standards it would reduce the 
implementation risk of all projects, including this operation. 
·
Supporting the environment for private sector and governance reforms.
 
Another benefit would 
be to reinforce and step up the improvements in the currently weak banking system, which is 
necessary for building up the private sector and it would also support policies that would help 
improve governance and transparency. 
·
Pave the way for a medium and long term engagement on key policy reforms.
 
Given the situation 
in Iraq, since reengagement in 2004, the Bank, as well as the rest of the international community, 
has largely focused on urgent reconstruction needs and institution building. This operation would 
move toward the more medium and long term policy reform dialogue the Interim Strategy Note 
sets out.  
·
Signal to other donors.
 
The Bank’s support to the Government in the form of the DPL would be 
a
catalyst to release IMF resources, and other donors to accelerate their support.  The DPL and 
the IMF SBA would be mutually reinforcing, reflecting complementarity of donor assistance and 
the operation and each of its Pillars would support harmonization of donor assistance by the 
Government to improve overall aid effectiveness. 
Risks 
The Program faces significant risks, which include: 
 
·
Political, economic and security risks
.
The ability of the Bank Group to engage with Iraq would 
be adversely affected by a reversal of recent, hard-won security gains or by deterioration in the 
political environment either in Iraq or in the Region.  Furthermore, Government’s commitment to 
the reform program supported by this DPL program could be weakened by a sustained increase in 
oil prices or by the election of a new Government (elections are due in March 2010) with a 
radically different agenda.  This risk is mitigated by the fact that t
his DPL is underpinned by a 
Page  4
4
reform agenda already adopted by the current Government and being implemented with support 
through ongoing technical assistance programs by the Bank, IMF and other donors. The DPL has 
also been designed to be realistic, while opening the door for the Bank to engage with the 
Government in the medium to long term on critical issues to improve Iraq’s fiscal sustainability. 
Bank support through this DPL is our contribution to a larger package that will help Iraq continue 
its physical and institutional reconstruction and thereby reduce destabilizing factors and foster a 
more secure environment. 
 
·
Oil revenue volatility risks
.
Iraq has been subject to major fluctuations in its oil revenues, 
reflecting its extreme dependence on crude oil exports. This makes it extremely challenging to 
conduct fiscal policy with a medium-term orientation, while maintaining adequate levels of 
public spending. To help mitigate this risk, this operation aims to support reforms that would help 
reduce Iraq’s fiscal and socio-economic vulnerability to abrupt changes in oil prices and 
revenues. In addition, the Bank would conduct analytical work and provide technical assistance 
on oil revenue management issues for Iraq, including assessing the feasibility of special fiscal 
institutions such as oil funds.
 
·
Fiduciary risks
.
Financial controls in Iraq are weak and the operation’s fiduciary risk is 
significant.  Weaknesses in Iraq’s institutional environment increase the exposure of the Bank’s 
resources to fiduciary problems.  The fiduciary risks in this operation cannot be mitigated.  In the 
longer term the Bank is supporting the Iraqi Government in strengthening its public financial 
management system through PFM Reform Project, which will help strengthen the Government’s 
fiduciary environment for budget support by supporting improved allocation, execution, 
transparency and accountability in the mobilization and use of all public resources.  Furthermore, 
the Bank has conducted a fiduciary assessment to accompany this operation which has identified 
weaknesses and areas for improvement. 
·
Program Risks.
 
The new Government may not request the second DPL if the financing needs are 
reduced.  While the new government may be committed to the general principles of the DPL 
reform program, it  may adopt a different set of priorities—for example, by placing a greater 
emphasis on some components---thus requiring changes in the triggers for the second DPL.  To 
mitigate the risks, the programmatic approach chosen for this operation offers greater flexibility 
than a tranched operation, and the indicative second DPL triggers are based on reforms that are 
already underway. 
·
Technical capa
ci
ty risks
.
Lack of technical capability among key Government agencies to 
implement the reform program present another source of risk.  Companion technical assistance 
projects in each of the three pillars are designed to help build the requisite capacity. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
Iraq is the process of reconstructing both physically and institutionally after years of wars, sanctions and 
mismanagement.  The literature on post-conflict countries shows that economic recovery – especially 
employment – is a key factor in avoiding recurrence of conflict.  The literature also shows that capacity to 
do reconstruction develops gradually such that governments are able to make best use of reconstruction 
financing only several years after the end of the conflict. The lesson here is that Iraq is only now hitting 
its stride in terms of capacity and its ability to make good use of financing and that halting its 
reconstruction could push the country back into conflict. The literature also shows that the post-conflict 
environment often provides a key opportunity not only for physical reconstruction but also policy reform. 
The following social welfare and distributional considerations are of particular relevance to the present 
loan: 
Page  5
5
·
Pillar 1: Although Iraq is resource rich, the population has not enjoyed the full benefits of those 
resources due in large part to weaknesses in public financial management.  Government s
pending 
has been poorly 
prioritized due to lack of information and capacity to plan.  In the education 
sector, for example, there have been large disparities in resource allocation among the 
governorates and overspending on the wage bill at the expense of investment, training and 
supplies.  Moreover, inadequate procurement, cash management and control and accounting 
systems have left public resources vulnerable to waste, theft and corruption and detracting from 
the Governmen
t’s ability to deliver services to the population.  Improved effectiveness of public 
expenditures in line with the Poverty Reduction Strategy, and improved management and 
transparency will mean that more resources get to benefit the people. 
·
Pillar 2: There is a large body of research showing that a well-functioning financial system is 
linked to growth and poverty reduction.  The population lacks access to finance.  Although the 
volume of bank lending is growing, it is very low.  Domestic credit is only 2.6 percent of GDP.  
Private sector investment is nearly all from personal savings and credit to the private sector is 
largely through translations among individuals.  The population is therefore expected to benefit 
directly from the financial system reforms. Given that Iraq’s financial system is dominated by 
State-owned banks, these reforms would also help reduce the budgetary drain that these loss-
making banks currently generate, potentially generating fiscal savings for more productive 
expenditures. In addition, since the budget is implemented through these banks, reforms aimed at 
increasing their efficiency would also support higher efficiency of public spending. Finally, 
financial system reforms are key to private sector development, which is expected to be the 
engine of employment growth in the coming period. 
·
Pillar 3: Iraq spends a significant portion of its budget on social protection, yet the impact of that 
spending needs to be improved.  The food ration system is effective as a safety net, reaching 
nearly all poor Iraqis.  However, it is inefficient because it is universal, is poorly managed, and 
distorts the private sector.  A second, targeted cash-based safety net is also in place, managed by 
MOLSA.  The MOLSA safety net has the potential to be a far more efficient safety net because it 
is targeted, but the mechanism for targeting needs work if it is to reach a significant share of the 
poor and avoid leakage.  The rationalization of the PDS and the enhancement of the MOLSA 
safety net are essential fiscally and in order to protect the poor and vulnerable from a wide array 
of shocks.  In addition to the safety nets, the pension system is a key part of the government’s 
social protection system.  As with the safety nets, reform of the pension system is essential to 
guarantee fiscal sustainability and to ensure old-age income.  
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
This operation is a development policy loan in support of a program of reforms for which the 
environmental requirements of OP/BP8.60 apply.
 
The proposed DPL is not expected to have significant 
effects on the country's environment, forests and other natural resources. The environmental and natural 
resource implications are driven to a large extent by the nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, 
none of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix is expected to have environmental impacts or risks.  
 
8. Contact 
points 
Jorge Araujo 
Lead Economist – Iraq, Syria 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 202-473-5404 
Email: jaraujo@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, D.C., USA  (IBRD) 
Sahar Nasr 
Lead Financial Economist 
Social and Economic Development group 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Tel: 5772+215 
Email: snasr@worldbank.org 
Location: Cairo, Egypt (IBRD) 
Page  6
6
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
