Document of
The World Bank
FOR  OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repm No. 12375
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NICARAGU
INUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2028-NI)
OCTOBER 5, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 1.2375
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CRED  PROJECT
(Ioaa 2028- NI)
Currency Equivalent
Currecy Unit= Cdrdoba= 100 cents
Average Exchane Rates
US$1 
MECAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
On F7ebruay 1S, 1M88 a Now CGh oba was harod;o I Now Cortoba= 1,000 old C6rdobas. On Mye 1, 1990 the Cordoba
Oro=1000 o6rdobas was inuduced. ft vwa pgWd to die USSdolkr. I*iaffy, it was e4d as a uoit of s800n to simlify
saouoog mg as a  molm of toacd betv6e die Mrdxoba Oro and dh Mddoba- b Much 3, M99 dfie so-aed Cdoba
Oro vas dostuaS by 400% fm ICO=IUSS to SCO= IUS$



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDUSTRL  REHABILIION CREDrT PROJECT
(Lan 2028 - NI)
WEt&HIS AND MASURES
One Hctare  (ha)                     = 10,000 square meters
Metric ton   (mt)                    =2,200 pounds
Metric ton (mt)                      =1,000 kg
Kilometer (km)                       =0.6215 miles
Kilometer (Ian)                      = 1,000 meters
Cubic Meterm)                        =1,000 lites
Liter                                =1,000 millilite
ABBIREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM USED
BANIC                         -Niaguan Industry and Commew Bank
BCN                            -Centra Bank of Nicagua
BND                            -Nicaraguan Development Bank
CAFENIC                        -Nicaaguan Coffee State Trading Company
COIP                          -Peoples Industial Corporation
CONDEMNA                       -Nicaraguan Mining Dvelopment Corporation
CORFIN                         -Nicaraguan Financial Cororation
CORNAP                         -State-owned Corpoaon Holding Company
ENIPEX                         -Nicarguan Eot Promotion Agency
FED                            -Special Development Fund
FINAPRI                        -Preinvestent Fund
FISE                          -Social Emergency Inestment Fund
FNI                            -Nicaraguan Investment Fund
ICB                            -International Compettive Bidding
IDA                            -International Development Agency
IDB                            -Inter-American Development Bank
INAA                           -Nicauan Institute for Water and Sewerage
INAP                           -Nicaguan Institute of Public Administio
me                             -I   onal Monetary Fund
MEC                            -Ministry of External Coopert
MOF                            -Ministry of Finance
SOE                            -Statement of Expenses
UN                             -United Nations
UNDP                           -United Nations Development Programme
USAID                         -United States Agency for Iternational Coopertion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W."GNngt  M.C 2043
USA
omf  of Dirootoreonea
Opetons Evalualion
October 5, 1993
MEMORANDU-M TO TH]E 9X           MDIREOI DR AM  PR$DN
SUBJECT:        Prject Completion Report on Nicaragua -
InduA  Rhabilitation CrMt folct (Loan 2O2JA*M
Attached i the Project Completion Report ao Nicuagua - lIndusal Rehabilttation Cdit Projet (La
2028-NI) prepared by the Latin America Regional Office. The Borrower wu not asked for a Part IL
The PCR is of satisfacy quality. It was prepre almost ten yeas after the project closed. his is
explained by the break in the official relationship beween . ie Bank and the Government pu tuan to
Nicaragua's non-aceal status between 1984 and September 1991. Because of the poltical and economic
upheavals that took place in Nicargua during the last decade, many of the entrises suppored wnder this
projedt no longer exist
Isufficient information is available to rate the outcome of this project. Obviously its sustaiability
is unlikely and the project has had no lasting impact on institutional development.
The PCR corrmcty wans agaist undertaking projects of this nature in highly uncran political
enviroments. It specifically suggests that in such circumstances: "the Bank must be prepared to be flexible
in project design and willing to suspend commitments, if necessary."
No audit is planned.
Attachment
his docummtb a reacsd didtioad may be uaed by ecpieztulyindthpefomncotfr officil du&  hBsom
way sol oesw be dicoed wihA Wod Book vAcizado.



FOM OmCIL Us OnLy
MNCARAGUA
PROJECTcCOMPLEnON REPORT
DDUSTRIAL REHABILTATION CREDrr PROJECT
(Loan 2028-NI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ha No.
PREFACE  ................  ..............................                              i
EVALUATIONSU 4?ARY  ..........   ................................ *                   i
PART k PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK PERSPECXTVE ......   1
1.    BIdntity ....................   ................ *               ......         1
2.    Bagid              .........  . *. 9* *9*... * * 9.9.. . 9.9.....9*......        1
3.    Project I'epartion and Appraisal .........................    2
4.    Prject Objectives  ....................                             ....        3
5.    Projec Description .................... .                            .          3
6.    Project Design and Crganization ................... ......                      5
7.    Pqectnpmni   ......   ...... *  ...... * ......                                 7
8.    Proect .Results                    ...... . ......     .....               .    8
9.     Susaiabt   . ......... *w .9               ..... *......  9....                9
10.   Bank Performance  .. ..............................   10
11.   Borwwer Performance .........  . ............ ..........   11
12.   Project idi           ............  O... 0.... ....... 0.    11
13.   Documentoton and Data  ..............................   12
14.   LssosLeamed  ...............................                                   12
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE .....  14
PARTI[h  BASIC DATA  . .            ... ...............................   15
RelatedBanLoanss .9..................................    15
PrcJectTimnetable  ...               .       ........            ........***  16
CumuativeEstmatedandActualDisbursements ....... ..........    17
Project Cost and Financing             ..        .      ................... * * 9 *  * * * .....  18
UseofBankResources  ...          ..** ............   22
List of Subprojects Approved  ...                 ....................... .   23
Subprjets by Sectors .................  ................   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World fank autheri,tIn



Submjwb by OwnesMp    ........................................                                          25
Subloas by Bank Intermeiaries   .........  .     ..........................  .                          25
Subloans by Size of Enteprise ..................................... .                                   26
Lit of Subpwo*bbySorceof Finncing ... .................   27
IncomeStatement  ......................................... *    28
Balance Sheets   ...  ...........                     ...........             ... ......                29



NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I-DUSTRLAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
a(Lan 2028 - NJ)
PREFACE
This is the Project Compleion Report (PCR) for the Industridal ehabilitation Credit
Priject (Lan 2028-NI) in the amount of US$30 million, which was made to tfie Corporacidn
Financa de Nicaragua (CORFIN) representing the Fondo Especial de Desaollo (FED), with
the guanntee of the Republic of Nicaraga. The project was desgned to help the Govenment in
the rehabili  of the industrial sector, which had suffered physical and financial damage due
to the 1979 civil war. The proect also included technical astance for  eni  the project
preparation, appais and supeison capailites of paripating  enc,   intermiaries and
terises, and scolarships to train public industrial enterise pe lonnel
The loan was approved on June 25, 1981, siged on July 15, 982 declared effectve an
Otober 15, 1981. The loan was closed on December 31, 1984. The last disbursement was on
January 18, 1985.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Op ion Division 2 of Latin Anmeica and te
Caribbean Region (Prefac, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and Il). Given the tme eapsed since
t  last dibust (January 1985) and the fact that many of the Borower's staff involved in
magig te proect have rtired or moved to new assignments, completion of Part II of the PCR
by the govenment was not requested.
Prparadon of the PCR began in February 1993, and is based, iner alia, on data obtained
during a mission to Niargua in April 1993, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Guarantee
Agreements for the loan, Project Supervision Reports, conrespondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, teies with Bank staff involved in the implementation of the project and interal
Bank memoranda



PROJECT COMPILETON REPORT
NICARAGUA
INDUSTIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2028-NI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective and Desciption
The principal objective of the proect was to assist the government in its efforts to
stimulate output, exports, and employment in the industrial sector, which had suffered damage
directly attrbutable to civil war. An industial credit operaton was camied out through a second
tier bank. A second objective was to continue strengthening the project evaluation capability
within the government, through the provision of thnical assistance.
Implementation and Results
Tbe tota actual cost of the project reached US$65.6 million (se Annex 4), of which
US$30 milLion equivalent (46%) was financed by the Bank, and the remainder US$35.6 million
equivalent (54%) was financed by PNI and intermediaries. The bulk of the loan (55%) went
to subprojects located in Managua Under the loan, FNI financed 30 subprojects; the average
size of the subloan was US$0.9 million. A total of 19 subloans were for state enterprises, 71%
of the total lending amount. The average loan for state enterprise was US$0.9 million (see
Annexes 7-10). Of the technical assistance resources (US$2.5 million), US$0.5 million was
used and the balance was reallocated to the credit component.
It is difficult to evaluate the results of this project. The PCR has been completed almost
ten years after the project closed. This is due to the absence of an official relaonship between
the govemment and the Bank which was caused by Nicaragua's non-accrual stus between 1984
and September 1991. During this hiatus political and economic upheaval has take place and
many of the entprses supported under this project appntly no longer exist, some have fallen
into disarray and others have no record of suppor from the project. Institutionally, no lasting
impact of the project on FNIM and/or particpating financial intermediaries can be ascertained after
such a long hiatus.
Project Sustalnabity
The project was implemented in an unstable policy environment and hence its
sustainability was doubtfud. In the initial years the revolutionary govemment was unclear in its
own economic policy and by the middle of the decade the Sandinistas we preoccupied with the
ongoing civil strife and Increasingly isolated.



- ijij
Fldlngs and Lessons Learned
The principal lessons learned from this project experence can be summadzed as fllows:
(i) This opeation was undertaken in a highly uncerain environent, i.e. sOon
after a bittely contested and only parally resolved civil war. Subsequent to fte
design of the project the policy environment deteriorated and jeopardized th
achievement of the project's objectives. In such an  n     thank must
preared t be flexible in pro -t design and willing to suspend commitments it
nearv.
(A) Given the state of the Nicaraguan economy in the early 1980s, with an
increasing deficit in well qualfied human resources, institution-building and the
provion of technical assistance were high piority ts. W    x d as
high rirty for the succss of a roc. thnil astn  shol not be de-
inked from Bak control. even under-the guise Mf "fresour
(iii) FED and FNI submission of ports (include audited fnancial staments) to
the Bank were not sent with the aeed periodicity and lacked adequate technical
coverage. I anessentily   satiskMa Xoicmament. oiectdesig mus
give iMpance to fnt and well designed technical. economic and finial
ting =euk        ts-
(iv) Coordination between FED, FNI and participating banks was poor.
Prtipating banks used different criteria for evaluating subprjects. FED and
FIs m ement information system was not adequate and needed imprvement
for processing subprojects data obtained from sev   nancial intmediies.
FNrs accounting system did not reflect properly the actual loan portfolio and
inmuest accrued. Common. aceted technical and financial ariteria should be
utilized at the participating financial interediares. Coordination poedures
should be similarly well understood.



NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILIATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK PERSPECTIVE
1.   Identity
Project Name:           Industrial Rehabilitation Cret Proect
Loan Number:            2028-NI
Amount:                 US$30 milion equivalent
Year of Approval:       1981
Borrower:               Govwrnment of Nicaragua
RVP Unit:               LA2C2
Country:                Nicagua
Sctor.                  Industry
2. Bad
2.01    =e  Q       w    On July 19, 1979 revolutionary rc  led by the Frente Sandinista
de Liberacion Nacional (FSLN) assumed control of the govemmentof Nsiragua. After prolonged
guerria activity and a year of civil war the Nicaragun economy was devastated. Real GDP had
dropped 9% in 1978 and 27% in 1979, there had been massive capital fight, and many firms and
bank fiaced insolvency. The direct damage to physical structus, equipment and ietories was
estmatd at more than $250 million. In the decade that followed the Sandinistas established a
centraly controlled economy. As a consequence of inapprpiate economic policies, prolonged
civil strfe, and other fcs such as the U.S. tade embargo, the economk situation deteiortd
further. Stting in 1983, GDP feWl each year and by 1989 production was below the 1970 levels.
At the end of the decade exrs were about half their pre-1980 level. Inflaon acceratd  shaply
in 1984 over the previous year (from 11% to 39%) and continued threafter reaching 14,000
percent in 1988. International reserves were depleted folowing the civil war and pre-war levels
were not recovered. Total exral debt rose sharply, from $1.1 bilion in 1979 to US$10 bilion
in 1990. EiPmated per capita GDP was about US$400 in 1990, well below the level of $570 in
1979, and less than half the US$850 level prevaiing in the 1970s.
2.02  The Chamor  govemment, which took office in April 1990, was unable iniially to
reverse this economic decline. In March 1991, the Government launched an economic
stabilizaion program dedgned to diminate hypernation, halt the decline in GDP, and stegten
tie balance of payments through tight fiscal and monetary policieLs By the end of 1991, te
resut of the stabilization prog&wn wer encouraging. Hiation had been ated, and although
GDP declined once again, it was by less than 1%. By the end of 1992, the economy showed some
si  of recovery, with GDP growing by 0.4% and inflation faling futer to 4%.



-2 -
2.03 Bnk Lediing to the Sector. After takdng into account the Sandinista government's
priorities for emergency rehabilitaion and the assistance already planned by other extna
agencies, the Bank provided ftree industial development loans and credits to Nicaragua totalling
US$57 million in 1979 and 1980. The firs pject (Agricultal and Industrial Rehabiliton, LU.
1785-NI and Cr. 966-Ni), approved in December 1979, included a loan of US$20 million and a
credit of US$10 million whose objective was to assist te overnment to rein the levels of
output, export, and employment in the agticultural and industral st  that exsted befre the
civil war. A total of 897 agricultural subloans and 19 industrial subloans were granted to public
and private sector enterpri  and the loan/creditproceeds were speedily disbursed.' The second
credit (Urban Reconruction Prject, tn. 965-Ni) amounting to US$22 million, was approved
in December 1979 and was mainly designed to finance urba reconuon fowing the civil
war. The project included a small scale entepxise component of US$4.5 milLion to finance credits
to about 3200 entuprises. Execution of the project was satisfactory and it appently achieved its
desired employment effects although the quantitaive tesults could not be fully documented. The
prject was fully disbursed and completed in September 1983. The third project (Pinvsment
Fund, La. 1081-NI) amounting to US$5 milLion, apprawd on December 1980, was nade with
the purpose of assisting the Govemment establish a sound basis for project idencation and
preparaton. The project was completed succesfully and provided the Govment several studies
that were exected to identify important imvesmts for the retuctuing of the economy.
Unfortunatly, because of the detiorating economic and political conditions of the country, the
preinvestment stude materialized as new investnts in only a few cases.
3.    Project Prearaton and Appraial
3.01  Following  e 1979 civil war, the industial sector needed credit to repair physical dme,
rebuild invtoies and renew marketing activities. The capacity of the bankdng system to
mobilize adt;tional funds was, however, limited, and the govenment was unable to obtain new
foeign bank credits. Apainst this ccal situion, the govemnment requested aitanc from the
World Bank. The Industial Rehabilition Credit Project (Ln. 2028-NI) was prepared by Fondo
Especial de Desamollo (FED), with the assistance of tie Bank, and in line with the government's
1. Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR). Nlcatagua Agltw  annd Inbsd1l
RehaWitoan fPect. Loan 1785-NI/C,t 966-NI. Report No. 4855. December 28, 1983
2. Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 6193, McA,ag Uabn Reeostn
Pectw  Cre&t 965-NI, Report No. 6193. May 14, 1988.
3. Project Completion Report (AR), Ainvestnent Fund Projet CrOnA No. 1081-NI. Report
No. 8338. January 26, 1990.
4. FED was created by Decree No. 323 of April 12, 1972 as a GovefnfmCtowned fund,
administered by BCN as the Govemment's fiduciar agent. After the civil war, control of
FED was shifted from BCN to the newly established BND.



-3-
main obJectives for restoring production, promoting exports and generaating employment During
the preparon of the project Bank staff worked closely with the govenment in the identification
of the principal industries which needed urgent rehabdlitation and which could be   ed  to
genrt additionl export earnngs and employment. It was noted that relatively little investent
had tk  place due to continuing political and economic uncertainties, shoage of inputs, loss
of markets and lack of tained technical and management staff.
3.02  The project was appraised in September-October of 1980, and the appal was completed
in March 1981. The loan was negotiated in May 1981, apprved in June 1981, and signed in July
1981, but it did not become effective until October 1981 due to delays in the authorizaton of the
Lon Agrement by the Government of Nicaragua.
4.    Project Objectives
4.01 The primary objective of the project was to assist the govenment in its efforts to regain
p-war levels of output, xpors, and employment in the industial sector, which had suffered
damage directy attributable to the civil war. Priority for loan utilizatio was to be given to
mining and industrial sector entepises wbose reabilio would result In increased exorts and
emplyment. A second objective was to continue sgthening the project evaluaion capability
within the govenment The project was desiged in line with the govenment of Nicaagua's
economic policies.
4.02 The project would provide financing for raw materials, spare parts, machinery
t, equipment, and relatedcivil works and services, thus enabling industrial and mining
enises in the public and prvate sctors to restore lost productive capacity. Firms with
significant export potential were identified mainly in the subsectors of nmning, textles, sugar
refining, metal and wood products, and chemical-pharmaceuical production.
5.   Project Description
5.01 The total project cost was estimated at US$43 million. The Bank loan, amounting to
US$30 million, would finance the total foreign exchange cost of the project, admated at US$26
million (about 60% of tot project cost), as well as a portion of local costs (US$4 million
equivalent). Fiancing a portion of local costs was justified in view of the extreme scarcity of
credit resuces available in Nicaragua. WiLthout Bank finanng of part of the local costs of the
project, there was a danger that some high priorit rehabilition prqects could not proceed.
Financial intermediars were required to provide US$ 4.4 million, about 10% of the total project
cost, and prect  onsors were required to provide at least US$8.6 million, which was the
balance needed to complet the financ  plan (on average about 20% of total project cost). The
total local cost of the proect was estimated at about US$17 million.
5.02  The US$30 milion loan was to be used to fince: (1) subprojects carried out by induswial
and mining enterprs  (US$27.5 million); and (ui) technical astance (US$2.5 million) Of the
former amount at least US$15 million woud be for sbprojects exorting one-third or more of



- 4 -
total output after the proposed  habilitonwas completed, and the balance would finance other
impornt epodng eteprises. The technical assistne was to be prvided to various sta
owned enterprises for a vaiety of instituton building studies.
5.03 T'he Bank loan was made on standard Bank terms, with 20 years maturity, including five
years gace peiod, and an interet rate of 9.6%. Repayment was to be made on the basis of equal
semi-annual payments in accordance with a fixed amorzation schedule. The Govermment was to
bear the foeign eixchange risk but would on-lend in local cuirency the proceeds of the loan to
FED on Bank terms. Trm  and conditions of subloans were similar to the fmr Agricultur
and Industrial Rehabiliion Project (Loan 1785-NI and Credit 966-NI), i.e., for up to five yeas
for worldng capital loans and up to 15 years for rpairs,   and modca     of fixed
assets and reatd services requiued for the rebailitation subprDject. A grace period in eithercase
of up to three years would be permited. 
5.04  As was common in operations of this type at the fime, the Bank imposed restrictio  on
the use of part of the program funds, i.e. by excluding: (1) refnancing of debts to third parties by
the beneficiay; (ii) rental or pwrchae  of land or commerca buildings; (iii) acquisition of used
goods, except in te case of used machiney, whose fimctioning was guaranteed by an entity of
recognized solvency; (iv) purchase of shares, bonds or other seurties; and (v) payments of
dividends or recovery of invested capital.
5.05 To reduce risks to an acceptable level, Bank funds were to be made avalable only to
enftepr    capable of successfully restoring productive capacity and markting their incesed
outut. To encourage pivate sector participation, assuance was obtained fom the Goverment
that access to the proceeds of the loan woul be on a equal bais for both privat and public sectr
enterpises. The technical assistance and taining component, which was desgned to rgthen
the FED, and major state mimng and industrial corporaons, was considerd an imortant
component for reducng project riks.
5.06  Like the frst proect (Agricultural and Ilndustral Rehabiliion Ln. 1785-NI and Cr. 966
NI), FED was the executing agency and was assisted by 1Mnancera de Preinverndn (FINAPRI)
in the admiist   of tchnicalassistance reqred to implement eudies. Under
the previous prqject FED had the resonsibility for channelling the Bank's and local counterrt
resourmes for the rehabilitaton subprojects and was responsible for reviewing all ubproject
appaisal repos submitted by the five  A g   inancial Btermediarie,    o Nacional de
Desarrolo (BND), Banco Mcaraguense, Banco de AmWrica, Banco Popular and Banco
mnobiao. These bank were selected based on thi technical and admin r   caty.
Their functons and obligatio  in the use and channeling of progam  funds wee set in fte
Participating Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement betwe  these instudons and the FED.
5.07  FED would on-lend to financial itermediaries at 12% or 14% for special program
subloans (for expore  that exported one-third of total output). The paripaing commeral
banks would re-lend to final beneficiaries at 15% and 17% (the Wead would be 3% in either
case). The adequacy of the rates was to be reviewed amually by the Government, which would



-5-
consult with the Bank on the result of the coonding reviews. The Bank would have the right
to stop further commitments until an agreement was reached.
5.08  FED would receive a spead of 2.2% or 4.4%. This was esdmated to be sumcient to
enable FED to more than fully recover its operating expenses connected with the project. FMI)
would share responsibility of subproject appaisal and supevion with the commercial banks
FED would review all subproject appraisal repor submitted by the fnancial intear, and
the first three subprojects from each of the mining, chemicals, pharmaceutical and sugar
industries. These latter subprojects would also be subject to the Bank's pdior approval. The
maximum cumulative amount of Bank funds that could be relnt to a single enterprise would be
US$3 million.
6.   Project Deg  d Or ation
6.01  Several important issues that had    during peparti  and appaisal wee incorporated
into the project design, including on: (i) interest rates; (ii) allocatio of proceeds to pivate sector,
(di) free lit; and (iv) deinition of the technical asistance. The proposed design also took into
consideration the emergency/rehabilitation nature of the project and the prevling severe
coanomic conditions at that time.
6.02  During apaisal, te Bank was conced about the low levl of inteerat (e.g. 12%
for small scale enterpse) which were below the prevailing rate of 25% in 1981. Prior to lan
negotiation the Govenment exressed to the Bank its intentions to raise the inter  rates to 20%
ad 22% for industial lending and if the projections for a decline in the high rate of inftio
wre to materialize, such rates would become positve over the medium-term. At negodations,
the Bank accepted the annual interest rate of 17% to be charged to the ultimate bficdae,
based on the infmat  obtained from the Government on the new inest te stuc    The
prposed 15% interest rae for epot-oriented subprqects was also acced (alough the
economic rationale for the differenation was not convinng), under cerin condions First, the
Borrower, in consultion with the Bank, would review on an annual basis the adequacy of its
interest rate structure for subloans under the project -the fAt consultation would take place no
later than March 31, 1982. In the event that the intest rates to be hged for subprojects should
not be acceptable to the Bank, the Bank would have the right to withhold appr  of furte
commitments under the loan. Second, the Bank's agreement to it     rates would depend on
a careful analysis of the prvaing economic conditions in  icaragua, which would include an
acceptable positive spread between the highest passive intet rate in the country and those
chged under the project for subloans to the ultimate borowers. Third, a review of past and
fute inflionay trends in Nicaragua would be made with a view to ensuring t  renable
probability  sted for the rates charged to subloans under the project to become positie over the
lie of the subloans. It was also agreed that eligiq for pecl pogram subloans with an
inter  rat of 15 % would be limited to the investment enteprises that export more than one-third
of their outpt after compledon of the respecive subprject.



-6 -
6.03  At appis it was suggested that US$10 millon of the proposed loa be allocated to the
private sector. At negodations, the Govenment felt that the objectve would be betw met thrugh
a covenant being added to the Loan Agreement, indicating that both public and private sector
enterpnses would have equal access to subloans under the project. It was agred tw prior to
Board presentation, FED would send to the Bank a letter giving its current esdmate of its project
pipeline expected for the private sector. The Bank informed tbe govemment of its intentons to
monitor closely the actual allocation of subloans between private and public enterprises.
6.04 It was agreed that the free limit for the FED (i.e. the maximum amount for subloans not
requiring Bank approval) would be set at US$500,000 based on the expenence obtained under the
first project The first three subprojects from the mining, chemical, pharmacutical and sugar
industres, regrdless of subloan amount, would be subject to the Baks appro. This procedure
was epected to result in areview by the Bank of some 30-35 subprojet covering 75% of the
project financing being provided under the loan. The definition of the technical asstance
component was decided to include assistance to FED and the lending in a    in appisal
and supevison techniques, prourment matters and export promodon. Assistance would also
be provided to ste-owned companies to resolve any technical or financial problems.
6.05      P        It was agreed with FED that the loan funds would finance foreign excbange
costs of imported and locally nanufactured equipment, materials, civil works, and sevces, as
well as a porton of the local costs associated with these ivestments. Consulting services for
taning and technical assistance would be open to intertional    tment. Procment would
be carried out in accordance with FED guidelines, which were approved by the Bank.
Participating financial intermdaries would satisfy themselves that p nt items were
suitable for the respective investment projects, that they were reasonable priced, that the
beneficiaries had examined the mai sources of supply, and that they were purchased from the
most advantageous sources. All subproject appraisal reports would be required to include a full
discussion of the procurement procedures to be used, responses received, prices quoted, and
criteria establisied for the selection of suppliers.
6.06 Disuigsements. The loan was expected to be disbursed over a four year period from mid-
1981 to end-1984. The Bank would disburse against the approved subprojects and the
coreponding list of goods and srvices, with the conditon that the total cost of such goods and
services would not eceed 70% of the total cost of the rehailition subprojects of the bonowing
enterprises. For those items on tie approved list of goods and services for an industia sub-
project, the Bank would disburse aginst 100% of foreign exenditre for direct imports and
100% of expendi  for locally proured goods and services. The Bank would also disburse for
100% of consuling srvices and scholarships. The financial in es had the right to
suspend credit disbursements, if the beneficiaries did not met tir obligations. The nal date for
submiion of subprojects was March 31, 1983 and the closing date for di  was March
31, 1984.
6.07 Accounting and auditin& During project appraisal it was agreed that FED would maintin
separat accounts for the project in accordance with sound accounting principlea. The project



-7-
account and reated annual financial satements would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance witi generally accepted auditing principles. During
negotiatons, agreement was reached that FED would employ audiors saftstory to the Bank and
all annual audit reports and financial satements would be submitted to the Bank not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year. Supplementary data on operati, financial positions,
quality of portfolio and sope of work carried out by the auditors, and such other additional
inomation as the Bank might from time to ime reasonably request would be prvided.
7.   Project Impleation
7.01 Implementation of the project was delayed by about one year and as a result the closing
date for disbursements was extended to January 1985. These delays ocured for numerous
reasons, e.g. insituonal ones such as frequent staff tumover at the FED, the dissolution of the
FED, rejection of seal subproject proposals by the mUmediary banks, poicy changes within
the government and a deteriorating political climate that hampered the industial recovery.
7.02  Additionally, utlinion of the technical assisnce component did not occur as exectd,
larely because grt asstance became available from donor countries which made the Bankts
fincing for technical assistance less attwcive. As a result, additiona fwun  from the loan
proceeds became available, and the Bank approved the FED's request of a reallocat  of US$1.3
miion from the technical assistance component to the credit component of the loan, which
refiected more accurately the actual financing needs. Even though technical assa   did become
vailable on a grant basis, it is not known whether the funds were applied to the components
in the Bank's loan.
7.03 On December 13, 1983, after 11 years of existence, the FED was replaced by the Fondo
NicaagunsedeInversones (FM, which absobed both the firmer FED and Preinwestment Fund
(FINAPRI). The reason given by the Government for this change was the urgent need to
centrize investment decision-making, and to maximize the use of scarce human and fnancial
resources5. The Bank was concemed that the subprojects were to be preaproved at high levels,
which would limit the independence of the financial institutions to make their own decisions at
the time of project appraisal, especially those projects with strong poLdtcal backng. Another
Bank concern was the sepation of appraisal and supvision fimctons within FNI, which had
limited experience i the preparation of subprojects, and had a reily small staff. The FNI
was created to act as the central focus for financing prenvestment and productive investmt, and
would be able to either finance projects directly or indirectly through other financial
intermediars. PNI was expected to be able to channel two or three times the combined resources
mobilized by FED/FINAPRI. To support this new structure, the Government established
standards for preivest  and investment analysis and guidelines for consutans.
5. The Govements attempt to systematize investment decision-making began wit fthe
creation of the Economic Council established in 1982, as the highest authority at the
ministy level, dealn with economic matters



-8-
7.04                 Actual isbu        after the fir two Y     amouted to US$4.8
million.about 19% of the appisl estimate (see Amn  3). Commitments at the end of FY83
reached US$8.8 milLon. Commitments and disbursemet acceleated sharply in late F83, as
a rsult of addiional FNIefo  to promote exprt oriented activities and betteordinaion 
commerial bak and bene         Qther posible contrbuing   ss were the exhauston of
alteratv sources of foeign resouces, and the substantal in e in world interest tes, which
made the Bank lon more competdtive. A further clement that helped to ine   disbursements
was the Bankms approval for the ablismet of a Revolving Fund in November 1983, with an
initial deposit of US$3.5 milLon, (amedment dated October 1992) and a subsequent ince of
$3,400,000 in the Fund (amendment dated December 1983) The conditions that the Bank
considered as acceptable for the creation (and increase) of the revolving fimd were h severe
breign exchange shotage in the country, and the difficulties epqnced by most fim  in
securing short-term credit fom supplies or commeral banks.
7.05  By tie end of 1983, the Government of Nicaragua had stared diusso  with the Bank
regarding the settement of the overdue debt service payments to the Bak and IMA, and the
handling of future debt service. An innovatie agreement was reahed in which disburment
from the loan were utiizd to repay Ncar'gua!s outstanding debt service obligats to the Bank,
with the govemment makUng equivaent disbursements for subprojects in local currcy. About
$10.0 miLlion in diements was aplied to these obligations.
7.06  AccolmgandAvdiUia. The government did not omply wth accounting and auding
requiremen. Extery audited inancial statments were not fursd  in the Anal three years
of the proect.
7.07    ect cost Based on data submitted by FNI, tie total actual cost of the project reached
US$65.6 milion (see annex 4), of which US$30 million equivalent (46%) was financed by the
Bank, and the remainder US$35.6 million equivalent (54%) was financed by FNI and
8.    Project Results
8.01  It is extremly difclct to evaluate the results of this project Nica  was placed in
non-accrual status at the end of 1984, and there was virtually no relaonship with the Bank until
Sptember 1991 when the currnt goenment cleared aears amoung to $220 milliom. As a
consequence this PCR has been completd almost ten years after the prcect closed. During that
dine political arid eoonomic upheaval has tk  place of pe s an equal magnitude to that which
brought the Sandinist to power. Many of the entepris  upported under this pnuject apparenly
no longer exist, some have falle nto disarray, other have no record of sppt from the project.
Insttutoally, FNI has undergone major changes since 1983 and the intermediary ban  have
been absoxbed into a state owned financial system, which itsef is currently insoivent
8.02 Given the sharp changes in the economic and social conditions in the period between the
last disbusement and this PCR the tangible benefits to industry can not be measured. Had the



-9
PCR been prepard immediately after lon losing in 1985 it is not clear what the reults might
have been. At that time the macroeconomic situation was deteriorating, civil strife was
contining, and, contrary to the assurances given by the Govnment during appraisal, private
sector participation in the economy was declining furtier. Reflecdng the eteioing macro
economic conditions, the FNI had begun to experience financial difficutes and was unable to
mobe domestic resources, thus calling into question its  iability. During the peiod of
project iplementation, FNI had come under political ptessur, and Its procedures for loan
procesng were becoming incry cumbeome and time-consuming. No lasing impact of
tie project on FNI and/or participating financial intemediarie can be ascertained after such a
long hiaus.
8.03  Stastcs on subloan approvals are shown in Annxes 7-10. The bulk of the loan (55%)
went to subprjec  located in Mang   The subsectoral distribution showed that about 80% of
the loan went to two subctorsfood and beverages, and mining. Under the loan, FM financed
30 subprojects, including 14 subprojects above the fee limit of US$500,000 equivaent; i.e., 10
subprojects above US$1 million. he awag size of the ubloan was US$0.9 million. About 25%
of the loan was for new projects, the rest fianced  a on ad m   a on   a  stdg
enterrs. The biggest subloan US$2.6 milli;o was for the  bilin of a suga mill
"Ingeero Bejamin Zeldn ", which included fte financing of a tan  n and pumping
equipment system, civil worls, agricutul machinery and addiioa spare parts and inputs for
the sugar mill. A total of 21 subloans were for state entepries, 71% of the total lehng amotmnt
and only 9 subloans were for prvate enterpises, which cr d  to 29% of the total lending
amount, idicating that the agreed upon equal access to both the public and prvate sect  may
not have occured. The avea  loan for state entepris was also US$0.9 million.
8.04  Implementtion of the tchna assistance component was limdted in amount and scope.
Of the total estmated technical assistan  resources of US$2.5 million, US$0.8 million was used
and the balnce was reallocated to the credit component. (paW   7.02) The technical asste
resources were used to carry out training cours in Inestment Administti, and Poject
Pation and Supevision in Nicaragua for 77 profesionals from eight financial institu   and
29 from government agencies and private sector enterpres. Additionally, this component
financed the pumchasing of sixteen vdele for the FED to strengthen its appaisa and sprsi
capability.
9.   Sustalnablty
9.01  The prqject was implemented under extremely difficult c n . In the inidal yar
the rolutionary govement was uncle in its own economic poliy and by the middle of the
decade the Sandinistas were preoccupwd wnth the ongoing civil strife and increasingly isolated
interntionally. As a conequence, the likeihood of achieving the objectv  of the project -
recovery of ouput - became incresIly remot
9.02  By the time the loan was canceed in 1987, FNFs capability to mobiize foreign or local
eources had long since dnied up. rs operatons continued at a very low level, based on



- 10-
relending tfie funds collected from its clients Other sources of financing of the private sctor
activities in Nicaragua also disappeared. On the institutional side, lending to an instutixon that
eventually required coltinuing replenishment of its capital by a government that was unable to
meet its own debt service obligations was not suswinable either.
10.  Bank Performauce
10.01 The Bank demonsated commitment and fexibility throughout the proect cycle. At the
dme of preparation and appraisal of the project, the Bank correctly highlighted the folowing
issues: (i) the need to increase interest rates in the event of negative real ates; (ii) broadening the
definition of eligible enterprises to enable a wider spectrum of firms to utiie Bank funds; (iii)
fte need to adopt more rigorous subproject appraisal; (h) lack of exprience; of te sta-owned
entrpises to resolve any technical and fnancial problems; and (v) definion of the technical
assistance for specific areas.
10.02 The Bank reacted quickly in approving the request of the eecuaing agency FED to
establish a revolving fund to fcilitate disbur     and withdrawal applicatim of the loan. The
man reons for this were the sevre forg echange shortage in the country and the inabilit
of the Central Bank to advance foreign exchange under subloas pending reimburse  by the
Bank from the loan account. lb encourage the use of the loan, the Bank accepted the reallocation
of the r       loan prceeds. About US$1.3 million wer realocated from the tehnica
assistance component, Part 0b), to the credit component Part (a) of the loan (am 7.02).
10.03 The Bank appeared to be strongly committed to assist Nicaragua in developing the
industial sector and strengthening the management and the organizaton of key indusrial sector
institutions. During prepartion and appraisal, the Bank staf worked closely with FED and the
Government on the tengening of FED, and on its policy statment for financia inedion
hat would gde FM's lending through other finncial ntr es. The Bank, MED, FN,
COIP, CORFIN, and the Government maintained good r     and und ng of theissues
concrng some Of the constraints affecting the project.
10.04 Total sup  on resources aocated to the project wee relatively high (110 sws), tugh
the number of Bank staff supervsion missons appears to have bee inadequte, given the
complexity of the project and the ina piae economic conditions. (see Annex 6). Supervision
efforts were sustained   ugh full or partial missions from Project Effectveness to Closing Date.
There were an average of 1.8 missions per year. Bank supevision of the project stard Wight afer
the loan became effecdve (October 1981) and intenisied during the period 1982-84. Begiing
in 1985, when Nicargua was in non-accrual, supevion dropped off markedly. Six of the
project supervision missions were combined with supervision for other Bank projects.
Supervision was dominated by concerns about the Boower's slow disement pace, slow
implementation of the technical assistance component, and the FNrs managnt problems. Also
noted were problems with FNI's quality of supervision such as lack of standardizon of
subproject appraisals and the absence of periodic progress rets. Apart from its small impac
on FNI's capacity to undertake more rigorous subproject appraisals and for estmating fte likely



- 11 -
economic impact of subprojects, it is evident that the Bank's influence on the way FM functioned
was limited. Finally, the Bank's supermision missions did not assess the extent to which the
country's deteriorating economic and financial deveopments might be compro    atnment
of the findamtal objecdve of the loan, i.e. the financing of econondcally viable industrial
projects.
10.05 Nonetheless, the Bank appears to have  erted little inauence on Nicatagua's industrial
sector policies and was unable to achieve the interest rate adjustments that would have been called
for under the amual review clause, prculadrly with significant negatve real intest ates from
1983 onward. This coincided with a diminished Bank role in Nicaragua, parcularly as Niarag
moved to non-accrual stus at the end of 1984. The Bank's supervision efforts also did not assess
fully the issue of private  ctopar ipaon in the project. A mejor concern was to determin
whether private and state industial enterprises would be dealt an an equal basis, and to assess the
extent of private sector demand for financing the rehabilitation of enterpri. On several
ocasions, the Bank exchanged vies with the prvate sector in response to certain accusations,
made by the prite sectr, chargng the FED and particang bank with discrimiton in
granting fincing.
11.   Borwer Performance
11.01 Financial peformance on FNI between 1982-1988 is presmted in Annexes 12 and 13.
Though the end of 1985, FNI maintained a satisfaory finaial position showing small i
in its profits. By 1987, FNIrs financial position had become critical, as a result of excessive loan
and interes obligations. FED improved its overall perfmance and its Industrial Department was
reorpnized to increase its efficiency. FED's management infmation system was not adequate
and needed im vent for procesing subprqect data fwm sveral intediaries. Additional
r    ructuing of its accuting, budgeting and   iation sysm was required to faciltate the
preparaon of forecasts of revenues and expenses. FNI erienced simila problems with its
accounting system and financial capabilities. Thus additio  stgthning was needed, incluing
for lending praces and procedures. FNrs accountng vstem did not rflect propetiy the actual
loan portfolio value and interest accrued.
12.   PojectRelationship
12.01 Over the full period of proect implemenion, FED, FNI, CORFIN, FINAPRI, and the
Bank maintained a  oe relaionship and a good ustanding coning the main con_aints
of project implaton. Botlnecks and conints we  sorted out witot negatve impacts
on the Bank-Borrower rehaonship. Hower, this  ionship was characd by a lack of
continuity of staff and managers working on tie prqject, both in Nicrgua and at the Bank; wich
affected project spersion.
12.02 The Bank's reltion with other national agencies and  g  instuons were also
very cordial. TIe Bank had no problem gaining access to highest levels of Govenment for sector
policy dialoge and rendering prfesonal advice.



- 12-
13.  DocumentatIon ajmd Data
13.01 Project documentation and data included legal documents (a Loan and a Project
Agreement), the staff appraisal report (SAR), the mission back-to-offace reports, supervision
reports, and progress reports provided by the Borrower.
13.02 The Loan and Project Agreements and the SAR were adequately prepared and served
satisfactorily during project implementation. The Borrowee's progre reports were submitted with
some delays and did not reflect a complete picture of the financial situation of the Borrower, nor
of the intermediary banks. Supervision reports provided a comprehensive picture of the technical
aspects of the subprojects, but rarely of the institutional matters conceming the country and/or
the Borrower. The analysis of such aspects improved in later supervson rport. There was a
lack of continuity between several supervision reports, and it is sometimes difficult to get a clear
idea of the evolution of the situation between supervision missions.
13.03 The data required for the preparation of the PCR were not always readily available because
of incomplete files, missing back-t-offce and supervision reports, as well as Borower progres
reports and other project data. Some of these shortcomings are due to poor records' management
at the Bank.
14.  Lessons Learned
14.01 The principal lessons leamned from this project eperience can be summadzed as folows:
(i) This operation was undertaken in a highly uncertain emironment, i.e. soon
after a bitterly contested and only partally resolved civil war. Subsequent to the
design of the project the policy envinment deteriorated and jeopadiazed the
achievement of the project's objectives. In such an eironut the Bank must be
read to be flexible in nroject design and willing to suend commitmentstL if
(ii) Given the state of the Nicaraguan economy in the early 1980s, with an
increasing deficit in well qualified human resources, insidution-building and the
provision of technical assistance were high priority tks.  En atond Br
high  friofr the s      gccess of a prect. technical a ss   shoul   t b d
lined from Bank control, even under the guise of Ufre"   ue
(iii) FED and FNI submission of reports (include audited fintcial statements)
to the Bank were not sent with the agreed periodicity and lacd adequate technical
coverage. 1h an essentially unsae ir =ct
give importanc to frequent and well designed technical,  nomic and financal
g regirmets.



- 13 -
(iv) Coordination between FED, FNI and participating banks was poor.
Participating banks used different criteria for evaluating subprqects. FED and
MNI's management information system was not adequate and needed improvement
for pocsg subprojects data obtained from seeral financial intermediaries.
FNI's accounting system did not reflect properly the actual loan portfolio and
interest accrued. Common. aZepted technical and financial criteria should be
utiliWzd at the  ariciDadng financial intermediaries. Coordinadton podures
shoud be similarly welluderstood.



- 14-
NICARAGUA
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILfTATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028-NI)
PART ITh PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PSPECTIVE
Given the dme apsed since the last disbursement (January 1985) and the fact that many
of the Borrower's staff imvolved in managig the project have  tired or moved to new
assnments, completon of Part It of the PCR by the govemnment was not requested.



s- 1S-
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLElON REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABIUXTATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
PART m BASIC DATA
RELATED BANK LOANS
"kw ~ ~ - 
0~~M R
Credit 965-NI. Urban Reconstruction  To assist the Government in the           1979        Completed in
Project (US$22 million).             rehabilitation of wardamaged cides,                  Setember 1983.
establishing insttional basis for                    PCR 5/1211986.
development. It included &ancing of small
scale enterprise componeot.
Loan 1785-NI and Credit 966-NI.      To assist the Goverment to regain pre-war   1979     Completed in
Agrieltural and Industridal          levels of output, exports, and employment in         May 1983. PCR
Rehabilitation Project (Loan US$20   the agricultur3l and industrl sector, which           12128/1983
milion and Credit US$10 million).    existed before the civil war.
1081-NI. Preinveatment Fund Project    To assist the Goverment in the          1980       Completed In
(US$5 milion).                       establishment of a sound basis for new               lune 1985. PCR
projec identifcatdon and preparadon.                 1/2611990.



- 16-                        Anwx2
NICAAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
PROJECT TETABLE
-IN!             -g D a    _  __11V,   
Identification         May 4, 1980                         May 4, 1980
Prparation             July 2, 1980                        July 2, 1980
Appraisal           September 22, 1980        -        September 22, 1980
Post-Apprisal        March 17, 1980           -          March 17, 1980
Negoaions             May 19, 1981            -           May 19, 1981
Board Approval        June 25, 1981           -           June 25, 1981
Loan Sinature         July 15, 1981           -           July 15, 1981
Loan Effectiveness    October 10, 1981        -         October 15, 1981
Loan Closing         March 31, 1984                    December 31, 1984
Last Disbursement    Mrch 31, 1984                       January 18, 1985
On April 24, 1987, the Bank cancelled US$22,284.26 equivalent.



-17 -
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECr
(Loan 2028 - NJ)
CUMUIATIVE ESTIMTED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEM?NT
(US$ milion)
Appraisal Estimate         10.0     25.0       30.0      30.0   30.0
Actual                     2.5       4.8       23.3      23.4   29.9*
Actaas % of Estimate    25           19        77        77      100
US$22,284 was cancelled  ...........
aUS$10.0 mUlion was appled as payment to debt sefvice of the Mank
ii,10~~~~~~~.. -.0.-.....
S.
U$422,284 was carncelled from the original loan amount of US$30 million.
OUS8I10.0 million was applied as payment to debt service of the Bank.



-18.-                      Amx 4
MCARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTI}AL REHABILrrATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(USS million equivalents)
Total Cost           17.0    26.0   43.0      31.7    33.9    65.6
*working capital     14.0     6.5   20.5      10.2    11.3    21.5
*fixed capital        2.0    18.0   20.0    21.4    21.9    43.3
*technical assistance  1.0    1.5    2.5       0.1      0.7     0.8
Fiuncing Pla         17.0    26.0   43.0    33.0    32.6    65.6
*Bank                 4.0    26.0   30.0       4.0    26.0   30.0*
*FED/Intermediaries   8.6       -    8.6       5.6      6.6    12.2
*Project Sponsors     4.4       -    4.4    23.4          -    23.4
TOTAL                17.0    26.0   43.0    33.0    32.6    65.6



-19 -                    ~~ANN  5
Page I of 3
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2028-ND
,~~~~~~IItOOeUib .ophe .a ~
Sectioa 3.01 (a) (i)        Eofnd shall: ( maintain separate                  Complie
accounts and a consolidated Projwet
Account on its records in such separate
accounts all receipts and payments under
each Catgory of the table set forth in
paraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loa
Agrment adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consstntly maintand
appropriate accounting practices.
Qi)                (i(i) tae al steps necessay to ensuo
that for each Ivestmnt Project the                Complied
responsible Participating Banks maintain
Sub-loan Accont adequate to
demonstrat the use of the proceeds of
the Loan in the execution of each such
Inve*stmet Proect.
Section 3.01 (b)            Have the accoun refrred to in
paragraph (a) hereof and its finacial            Complied
statements for each fsca year audited,
in accordace  t appropriate ading
princple consisey applie, by
independen auditors acceptable to th
Bank.
Section 3.01 (c)  t)        Shall firnish to the Borrower and the
Bank at the end of the fisa year. ()          Partil compliance
cerified copies of its finaal
statements, and financial statements with
respect to the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) heof for such year as so
audited, and
(ii)           (ih) the report of such audit by said          Ptial compliance
auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank sha have reasably
reudd.



-20 -
Annex $
Page 2 of 3
Secton 3.01 (d)             kautezo cocerng the acounts and         Complied but not timely
ncial satemeats with respect to the
Project and Eggn&2 and the audit
thereof, as the Borrom  and the Bank
may from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02 (a) (1)       Egnm: (i) shall establish and maintain,        CompW
and cause die Participating Bank to
establish and maintain procedures
adoqut to monitor and record the
progress of tho Proect, including the
costs of the Project inputs and activities,
and value of output., such procdur  to
permit identificaion of goods and
ervices fiace out of the proceeds of
the Lan and disclosue of dthir use in
the Projt and the nvesmen Projects;
() dsall enable, and cause the
(i)            Particiating Banks to facilites and             Complied
consrucion sites included in the
Ptoject, the Investment Proiect and to
examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevwant
records and documents; and
(ii) sall funish, and caus the
(ii)            Participating Banks to furnsh, tbrough          CompiL;d
E2a4u to the Bank, at regular intervals,
all such infonnation as the Bank shall
reasonably request conceraing Part A of
the Project and the Investment Projects,
including, inter    the expendiure of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Subdiary
Loans and the Sub-Loans, the goods and
servic  financed out of such proceeds,
and the admnisraton, operations and
finacial conditions of Fondo. the
Participating Bank and FINAPRL



- 21 .                              SuA ex S
Page 3 of 3
I'~~~,   ..           .                 '                  ,     *-           ....... 
Section 3.02 (b)           Wt  six month folawig the last        Rlot was rpo      y completd
withdrawal fiom the Loa Account,     but could not be loated by the
Fgond sh  prepareo ad fish to the    PCR prepmtioa tam.
Bak a report, of sucb scope and in
sucb dei as th Back shl reasonably
request, on the execution and iital
opeation of the lnvestmn Projects,
their coss and beneft deived and to
be derived from them, the performance
by the Bank, !9of, tkho Prciatng
Banks, thwInestme  Entpriss and
FINAM  of tir respective oblgation
under thi Agremen t  Subsiy
Loan Arement, die Technical
A_bsa A_mb th Subw
Loan Agreements, the articipatin
Bank Subsidiary Lon Ageements and
the Sub-loan Cotracts, and fte
accmplisment of th purpos of the
=*                    ~~~Lo



-22 
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
NUSTRLAL REHABIIlTATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Staff Inputs
Through Appraisal                             n.a.             71.9
Board Approval through Effectiveness   n.a.                    31.7
Supervision                                  na.               110.8
TOTAL                                         B.a.             214.4
Missions
Idspdfloetn    05a10/0      2             2              FNA.BCN         -
Apprai__      09/1980       2             3             FNA, -CN           -
1 stAppraio t  03/1981      4              1            FNACN,OTH                     
SupeavisIon   12/1981       2             2             FNAIOTIH        _              n.
Supevisos     01/1982        1             1            TRO                            M
suavision*    06/1982       4             2             FNA.CN,OH  Ia.e                MF
Supervision'    07/1982     2             2             PNA.OTH          n.e. MNP
SupesionU      81982        3             3             FNAXCN,lH    n.               I KP
Sup in        12/1982        1            2              PNA             2             U.S.
Suprvo        11/1963        1            2             FNA              3             M,F
Suprvision*    12/1983      4             2              PNABCO,OTH  !.n.              MYF
SUPervin      06/1984       1             2             FNA              2             MFP
SUrvWO40      07/1984       3             2             PNA.CO,OaTH    2               M,P,P
Superisit   10/19U        2             2              PNAC0         | 2             M,F,P
Supco         06/1986        1             I            FNA            |n8.            MAFIP
Saperidon     061O87         I             I             PNA             n.
. . . . .      :  1A-F=n=aU: AMYUW;4 fC-noono RGl-Ttaiq Wmo  ulH=Umjw
Type of Pobimm  F- Oncnid; T3taohaio  M-manal Pwpoltsk n/snspeoli
* Iou sup4 vision far othr  pc4j



-23 -                                   Annex 7
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
INDUSTRI REHABIATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - NI)
LUst of Subprojects Apprd
(USS mlion)
Mis Bonaa                                      2.51
Memnat                                         0.54
COPESCOSA                                      6.61
Mima Poaco Mean                                3.44
Nicargua Suga SW".                             2.28
ICICASA                                        2.20
15p-Top                                        4.45
IDg. Bajaminf Zded6a                          17.71
L.bomorios Salk                                1.46
GCus y Ahla                                    4.28
Avicola La BOW&                                1.71
Mina LaLbatad                                  1.76
CECALSA                                        0.76
EmpCa Cocatora                                 5.89
Mango S.A.                                     2.05
CIDESA                                         1.00
FgPica Naeional do Fdsfobro                    0.07
MUDESA                                         0.30
Polm  do iWagua                                1.67
Jadua CQrvema Ta                               0.93
AGROSA                                         0.75
Cano"                                          0.25
IUCASA                                         0.57
Sitleciadora ConmWl S.A                        0.2
AlionsAlmy                                     0.49
Ifidaa Malr                                    0.08
1MPLAGSA                                       0.76
Induutris Edison                               0.12
PROCON                                         0.14
TOTAL                               65.60



-24-
Annex 8
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSIRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2028 - Ni)
Subprojects by Sectors
(US$ million)
Food and Beverages                 11       37          42.18   64
Textile, Lether Products             1       3           0.64     1
Wood and Furnire                     2       7           2.33    4
Paper and Pinting Activities         1       3           0.57     1
Chemical and Rubber Products        4       13          6.75    10
Non-Metal Minerals                   1       6           0.37     1
Metal Products and Electric
Equipments                          4       13           1.68    2
Others                              3       10           0.88     1
Mining                              3       11          10.49   16
TOTAL                         30      100         65.69   100



.3 -
co  e1n1
.   |  :   0  R  @       |                   {              W~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



26-tex 10
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLEnON REPORT
INDUSTRiAL REABXATION CREDiT PROJECT
a.oan 2028 - Ni)
Subloam by Size of Euteprise
(US$ thouand)
US$  100 to  500            6     20          2.43      1         0.40
US$ SOOto 1,000             3      10         2.24      1         0.74
US$1,000to 2,000            4      13         6.36      3         1.59
US$ 2,000 to 5,000          8     27         29.98    15          3.48
US$5,000 and Jp             9     30         160.17    80        32.12
TOTAL                 30    100        201.18   100         6.70



*                                               Annex  11
PROJECT COMPLElON REPORT
NDUSTRiAL RE4ABIuxrATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Loa. 2028 - NI)
I3st of Subprojects by Source of Jnanchug
(US$ milLion)
Mina Bonarma                      1.5      -             -         0.7                  2.2
Merinsa                          0.2       -           0.1                              0.4
COPESCOSA                         0.8    0.3             -         4.4       0.4        6.0
Mine Francisco Meza               1.4    0.2           0.4                   4.5        6.7
Nicarwua Sugar Sats               1.6      -           0.2         0.4                  2.2
ICICASA                           1.5                    -         0.7                  2.2
Tip-Top                             -    2.9             -         5.3         -        8.3
l;n. BenJamIn Zeleddn            2.6    7.1            0.8            -        -       10.5
Laboratorios Sodka                1.0    0.1           0.9         0.3         -        2.4
Grasas y Aceites                  1.0                    -         3.1         -        4.1
Avicola La EsueIla               0.9                 . 0.1         0.2                  1.3
Mina La Libenad                          0.1           0.7         0.1       0.4        1.4
CECALSA                          0.4       *           0.1         0.1         -        0.6
Empress Cocotera                  1.9    0.4             -           -       1.7        4.0
Mangos S.A.                      0.2    0.1            0.5         1.7         -        2.9
CIDENSA                          0.2       *           0.6         1.1                  2.1
Fabrca Nacional de Fdsforos      0.1       -           0.1           -                  0.2
MUDESA                              -    0.1             -           -                  0.1
Polymer de Nicaragua              0.1    0.2             -         0.1       1.2        1.6
Industria Cenreceras Tofla       0.5       -             -         0.5         -        1.0
AGROSA                           0.3       -           0.2         0.7                  1.2
Canteras                         0.1       -           0.1         0.2                  0.4
SILCASA                           1.3      -           0.3         1.3         *        3.1
Almidones Almy                   0.1    0.1            0.1         0.3         -        0.7
Hielers Polar                    0.1       -                         -         -        0.1
IMPLAGSA                         0.1       -           0.3         0.2       0.2        0.8
industrias Edison                0.1       -             -           -         -        0.1
PROCON                            0.1      -             -                              0.1
TOTAL                           17.9*   12.2           6.6        21.3       8.        65.6
T1e difleence betwoen total loan dIsbursernents U29.9 aS  total disburd tor suprojct ina   ws appied
to the pagment of public debt.



Anntx 12
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2028O
PONDO NICARAGUENSE DB 11VBERSONBS
INCOMB SrATEMEW
INCOME:
nterutandconumissafiloam                   0.12      44.28       9.10      34.39     28.44       11.77      9.29
Teebwuid sais o iwo                        Q0.00      0.19       0.04       0.03      0.36       0.60       0.19
Odier iucme                                0.02       1.40       0.29      0.16       050        0.49       0.15
TOWal luoe                                  0.14      45.87       9.43      34.S8      29.30      12.16      9.63   *
Interest and comiioo                       2.59     138.61      32.40      14.47      0.00       6.17       4.84
Gonrand 0aduuminishtWo expeos              0.34      39.45       8.86      17.26      6.64       0.00       3.02
Povislons for npormuing loons             43.83      31.14       7.06      0.00       o.ao       0.00       0.00
hclieugflucluutiosofac cmo                 0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
roedvable                                 0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Tot  pe...                                 46.76     209.20      48.33      31.73     20.71       6.17       7.78
1wom befotre tame                           0.00    (163.33)    (38.89)      2.85      8.53       8.53       1.84
Invome taxes                               0.00       0.00       0.00      2.2S       4.52       4.52       0.00
Bp     oraw coectwa.                      46.77       0.00       0.00      2.71       1.52       t.52       0.00
Net income_                                 0.15    (163.33)    (36.89)      3.30       S.53       5.53      1.84



Annex 13
NICARAGUA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL REHABIUTATION PROJECT
(Loan 2028-NI)
Balanee Sheet
(U8$ WMlUm
AS                     1988       1987         6       198       184        18           8
Cash md bank deposs                   1.72     154.12     28.24     103.79      16.68     33.20      21.20
LOsm reeivl                          39.40   1,586.03    416.58     360.67     139.31     148.02    U13.79
Oter "sts                             0.34     239.14     32.22      58.68      14.81      14.32     13.03
Net fixed MsU                         0;16       1.9S      0.48       0.65       0.50      1.10       0.53             2
Dof"nud chages                        0.00       0.72      0.26       0.23       0.17      0.53       0.59
Guarundeposits                        0.00       0.12      0.00       0.01       0.01      0.03       0.01
Toall Assfts                         41.62   1,982.08    477.79     524.04     171.46     197.20    149.17
LIAUJl1IS AND EQUITY
n-term losW payable                  38.44   1,961.29    426.13     344.00      86.37    115.37      87.00
futnt and commissio payable           2.56      78.38     21.30      10.71      6.36       5.58       1.83
AdmistrtiveDaepens                   0.04      28.54      2.08       8.66      5.33       9.17       5.92
Acuaumated expese payable             0.01       6.02      2.07       7.10       1.62      0.25       1.35
Fracial assite from the Cent          0.27       0.00      0.00       1.02      0.92       0.82       0.03
Rink of Niagua                       0.00       0.01      0.01       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.08
0.00                           0.03       0.04       0.13      0.16
Totl Liabilitis                      41.32    2,074.25    451.59    371.53     100.63    131.31      96.29
Totd Ekpqty                           0.29     -9216        26.2   1S2.51      70.84      65.89      5287
TotaloIabilis and Equity             41.62    1,982.08    477.79    524.04     171.46    197.20     149.17



