Document of
The World Bank                        FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3089-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
June 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cordoba (¢)
US$1.00        =  010.00
US$0.10        =  01.00
US$100,000     =  0 million
UNITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAMER     =  Bank of America
(Banco de America)
BANIC     =  Bank of Nicaragua
(Banco de Nicaragua)
BCN       =  Central Bank of Nicaragua
(Banco Central de Nicaragua)
BIN       =  Real Estate Bank
(Banco Immobiliario)
BND       =  National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
BNN       =  National Bank of Nicaragua
(Banco Nacional de Nicaragua)
BP        =  Peoples Bank
(Banco Popular)
CABEI     =  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
COIP      =  People's Industrial Corporation
(Corporacion Industrial del Pueblo)
CONDEMINA =  Nicaraguan Mining Development Corporation
(Corporacion Nicaraguense de Desarrollo Minero)
CORFIN    =  National Finance Corporation
(Corporacion Financiera de Nicaragua)
ENIPREX   =  Nicaraguan Export Promotion Agency
(Empresa Nicaraguense de Promociones de Exportacion)
FED       =  Special Development Fund
(Fondo Especial de Desarrollo)
FINAPRI   =  Preinvestment Fund
(Financiera de Preinversion)
FIR       =  International Reconstruction Fund
(Fondo Internacional para la Reconstrucion)
IDB       =  Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INAA      =  Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
INAP      =  Nicaraguan Institute of Public Administration
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Administracion Publica)
INFONAC   =  National Development Institute
(Instituto de Fomento Nacional)
MIND      =  Ministry of Industry
(Ministerio de Industria)
PME       =  Public Manufacturing Enterprise
USAID     =  US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Nicaragua
Beneficiary:           Corporacion Financiera (CORFIN) through the
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED) 1/
Amount:                US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                 20 years including 5 years of grace at 9.6%
interest per annum.
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be
onlent on the following terms:
Interest              Including
Per Annum   Terms       Grace
in %     (Years)    (Years)
Government to FED           9.6            20          5
(through CORFIN)
FED to Participating
Banks                     14 (12)2/      same as sub-
loans to final
beneficiary
Participating Banks to
enterprises for:
working capital           17 (15)2/       5        up to 3
repairs and
equipment                 17 (15)2/      15        up to 3
The proceeds of the proposed loan for technical assistance
would be onlent to FED through CORFIN on the same terms
as the proposed Bank loan. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
1/   FED would be the actual executing entity for the proposed project.  Since
FED under Nicaraguan Law, is represented by CORFIN, the draft Loan
Documents show CORFIN as the intermediary for channeling the proposed
Bank loan to FED who will, in turn, carry out the project.
2/   The lower rates are for subprojects of industrial enterprises which
export at least 1/3 of their output after completion of the subproject.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
ot their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Description:      The proposed project would assist industries which suffered
physical and financial damage in the 1979 civil war to
regain pre-war levels of output, exports and employment.
Technical assistance would be provided to: (i) FED and the
financial intermediaries to help improve their appraisal
and supervision capacity; (ii) assist the Corporacion
Industrial del Pueblo (COIP) and the Corporacion Nicaraguense
de Desarrollo Minero (CONDEMINA) to resolve technical and/or
financial problems of the final beneficiaries; (iii) help
the Instituto Nicaraguense de Administraccion Publica
(INAP) develop an accounting system for the public
enterprises; (iv) assist the Empresa Nicaraguense de
Promociones de Exportacion (ENIPREX) in promoting exports
of industrial enterprises; and (v) provide scholarships to
train public sector enterprise personnel. US$27.5 million
of the proposed loan would be allocated to industrial and
mining enterprises and US$2.5 million to technical assistance.
There are risks associated with lending to a sector which
has been adversely affected by the civil war and in which
the role of the State has been expanded greatly, a process
which requires new organization and management structures.
These risks are reduced by lending through relatively
experienced institutions (which will also receive technical
assistance under the project). There also remains the
risk that the private sector will not participate fully in
the investment program; however,the Governments declared
intentions of operating a mixed economy should minimize
the risk.
Estimated Costs:
…JUs$ million ------
Local    Foreign   Total
Working Capital             14.0      6.5       20.5
Fixed Capital                2.0     18.0       20.0
Technical Assistance         1.0      1.5        2.5
Total            17.0      26.0      43.0
Financing Plan:
…---- US$ million ------
Local    Foreign   Total
IBRD                      4.0      26.0       30.0
FED/Intermediaries        8.6        -         8.6
Subloan Beneficiaries    4.4         -        4.4
Total           17.0       26.0      43.0



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
…- US$ million --------
Bank FY 1982      1983    1984
Annual                          10.0        15.0     5.0
Cumulative                      10.0        25.0    30.0
Economic Pate
of Return:           Not applicable
Appraisal Report:      3364a-NI dated May 29, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$30 million to the Republic of Nicaragua for
an Industrial Rehabilitation Credit Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace with an interest rate of 9.6% per annum.
The loan would be channelled through the Corporacion Financiera de Nicaragua
(CORFIN) representing Pondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED). The Republic of
Nicaragua would assume the foreign exchange risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last Bank economic report, "Memorandum on Recent Economic
Developments and Prospects of Nicaragua" (2061-NI), was circulated to the
Board in June 1978. One loan and two credits were presented to the Board in
December 1979, a credit for a preinvestment fund in December 1980 and a loan
for a water supply engineering project in April 1981. The documents for these
emergency loans and credits contained brief analyses of the conditions that
Nicaragua faced after the July 1979 revolution and an appraisal of subsequent
economic performance and prospects for the short and long term following
visits by Bank staff. An economic mission visited Nicaragua in November 1980.
Its preliminary conclusions--which are reflected in this President's Report
and Annexes--were discussed with Government officials extensively in February
1981. The discussion of the completed draft report is scheduled for late June;
circulation to the Board is likely during the summer. Country data sheets
are attached as Annex I.
3.        Nicaragua is a country rich in land resources.  Agriculture represents
about one-quarter of GDP, employs nearly half of the labor force and generates
about 70% of merchandise exports. The country is divided into three distinct
agricultural areas. The Pacific Zone, where about 60% of the nation's 2.5
million people live, is characterized by two types of farming--a great number
of small farms grow basic grains with traditional technology, while a few
large plantations use modern technology and specialize in cotton and sugarcane;
the mountainous Central District is devoted primarily to the production of
coffee and livestock; and the extensive, underpopulated Atlantic plain holds
a largely unutilized potential for forestry, tree crops and livestock.
4.        The small, open economy has had a record of high economic growth
(nearly 6% per year in the three decades prior to 1975) and very low rates of
inflation prior to 1972. Population has been increasing at an annual rate of
about 3%. Income growth has basically been the result of the expansion and
the adoption of modern methods of production for commodity exports--primarily
1/   Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for
the Managua Water Supply Engineering Project (P-3026-NI of April 14, 1981),
which was approved by the Board on April 30, 1981.



coffee, cotton, beef, sugar, and shrimp. Industry has been growing in importance;
before the recent war the industrial sector represented approximately 25% of
GDP. Exports of manufactured goods, mainly to the Central American Common
Market, were about a quarter of total exports.
5.        This substantial growth was not accompanied by parallel social
development. Life expectancy and adult literacy rates were among the lowest
in Central and South America. The limited availability of key public services,
such as education and health, reflected in part budgetary stringency dictated
by insufficient revenues.
6.        The armed struggle that preceded the establishment of the Government
of National Reconstruction in July 1979, was extremely costly. More than
30,000 people lost their lives, and many more fled the country. While many
have returned, some highly skilled people have remained abroad. In addition,
the war seriously damaged the nation's industrial productive capacity and had
disastrous effects on the financial system. The direct damage to physical
structures, equipment and inventories was estimated at more than US$250 million.
The flight of capital prior to and during the conflict exceeded half a billion
dollars, and many banks and industrial and commercial enterprises became
insolvent.
7.        The new Government embarked simultaneously on the tasks of economic
recovery and social transformation. The reorganized government bureaucracy,
although largely inexperienced, is committed to improving the living condi-
tions of the population and to increasing production. The new regime has
indicated that it will maintain a mixed economy in which the public sector
will not only be directly involved in the regulation of the economic process
and exert a sizeable degree of control over the allocation of investment,
but will also assume responsibility for many directly productive activities.
In addition to confiscating land holdings and industrial and commercial enter-
prises, mainly those of the Somoza family, the Government has nationalized
the banking system, the insurance companies, foreign trade, and the mining
sector. The public sector's direct participation in agricultural production
is about 18%, in manufacturing 31%, and in the service sectors more than 50%.
The total share of the public sector in the country's GDP has risen from 15 to
40%.
8.        The government machinery has been extensively reorganized:  a number
of new ministries have been created, new institutions have been developed; and
practically all government and autonomous public agencies have undergone
reorganization. In particular, the financial system has been totally restruc-
tured and ministries have been established to handle the nationalized portions
of the agricultural, industrial and trade sectors. The Government is now headed
by a three member Junta of National Reconstruction that is backed by the
Directorate of the Sandinista Front of National Liberation. There is also a
Council of State, where business and professional groups have some represen-
tation. Efforts have been made to strengthen the planning process, and the
planning council has been raised to the ministerial level. An emergency program
was adopted as soon as the war ended; a formal program of economic reactivation
was drafted for 1980; and an economic plan of "austerity and efficiency" was
prepared for the year 1981.



The Nicaraguan Economy During the First Year and a Half of the New Regime
9.        The struggle which culminated in the toppling of the Somoza regime
left Nicaragua with a highly damaged productive apparatus. Manufacturing
production declined by nearly one-third in 1979 as a result of the destruction
of factories and inventories and the loss of managerial personnel; during the
first half of the year, private investment shrank to a minimum, and construc-
tion nearly stopped. Agricultural production was also seriously affected.
The slaughter of immature beef cattle and the smuggling of herds out of the
country severely compromised beef production for the coming years. Urban
unemployment and underemployment reached alarming levels (the combined rate
was more than 30%). Real GDP dropped by more than 25% in 1979, in addition
to the decline of 7% it had suffered in 1978. The cumulative income forgone
from 1977 through 1980 surpassed two billion dollars when measured against an
historic trend line.
10.       The drop in exports was most significant.  Exports constitute
one-third of GDP, and are the chief driving force of the Nicaraguan economy.
Although export revenues derived from the 1978/79 crop were fairly high, much
of the receipts left the country as capital flight. The 1979/80 agricultural
season was disrupted by the war. Farmers failed to plant cotton, and produc-
tion and exports of basic grains, coffee, sugar and beef dropped substantially
as well. Although high international prices of sugar and cotton offset
some of the losses in export volume, total export receipts from goods and
services decreased by US$220 million between 1978 and 1980--in real terms a
drop of about 48%.
11.       Given the drastic drop in domestic supply and conditions of financial
insolvency, both on the national and international fronts, the new Government
faced a very difficult recovery period. Efforts were made to increase domestic
supply, but an expansionary monetary and fiscal policy contributed to the
creation of excess demand. Much of the shortfall in production was compensated
for through an increase in imports which, along with price controls, kept
inflation from being explosive. The GDP deflator rose only 35 percent in 1980,
compared to 70 percent in 1979. In 1981 it is expected to rise by 25 percent.
12.       The rise in imports was made possible by a draw down of reserves and
by a generous inflow of external financing. During the first year and a half
following the war, international organizations and a number of individual
countries provided Nicaragua with substantial amounts of external assistance.
Total commitments of loans, trade credits and grants amounted to about US$950
million; total disbursements from these and prior loans were US$650 million.
The Rank Group committed US$57 million in new loans (of which US$37 million
was IDA), the IDB committed US$193 million, and AID US$88 million. Because of
prior, large commercial borrowings and the recent diversity of aid sources,
the Bank Group's exposure is low; by the end of 1979 the Bank Group was owed
just under 10 percent of the public, disbursed external debt. Donations in
cash and goods over the first year and a half amounted to about US$200 million
(excluding considerable direct technical assistance).



-4-
13.       During 1980, fiscal revenues were very high, mainly as a result of
new taxes and more efficient collection. Nevertheless, overall fiscal policy
was expansionary. Although capital expenditures were lower than budgeted,
current expenditures amounted to 2.8 times those of 1978, greatly surpassing
current revenues. The overall deficit of the Central Government rose from
US$105 million in 1979 to more than US$250 million in 1980, about 65% of total
revenues and 12% of GDP. Less than half of this deficit was covered by
external financing. Bank credit expansion in 1980 was substantial. Most of
the private sector credit was channelled towards short-term loans, but more
than two-thirds of the expanded credit was for the public sector.
14.       Following the typical pattern of small, open economies, this large
increase in both Government deficit and domestic credit quickly leaked out
into imports, particularly from Central America. Contrary to Government
expectations, import growth has not resulted from the demand for inputs for
increased production, but from the rapid recovery of consumption and the
rebuilding of stocks. Capital goods imports had not quite recovered to 1978
levels; on the other hand imports of consumer goods were 35% higher. The
resource gap was US$458 million, a total that represents over one fifth of GDP
and was almost equal to the total exports of goods and services. In spite of
the strong inflow of grants and long-term external financing, net reserves
dropped by almost US$200 million in 1980 to about minus US$400 million. At the
end of the year gross reserves were about US$80 million, less than one month's
import bill.
15.       In sum, the policy followed in practice has been one of satisfying
the basic needs of the population, trying to restore real consumption levels
which had dropped sharply in 1979, restocking inventories and providing
employment, or at least marginal work, for the urban unemployed through the
rapid expansion of credit and the government sector. The course chosen has
given the Government, and the country itself, a breathing spell following a
very trying war. Had imports been restrained, domestic scarcities would have
been more apparent and inflation would probably have accelerated. There has,
however, been a high cost associated with this less painful transition,
namely, the build up of a large trade deficit.
Prospects for 1981
16.       Basic grain production has increased substantially in the 1980/81
crop year, and there is a good possibility that domestic consumption needs
will be satisfied to a large degree. The prospects for agricultural commodity
exports are moderately good. The value of total goods exports in real terms
for 1981 is projected to be more than one-quarter higher than in 1980. However,
they are expected to be about 10 percent below the record exports of 1978.
The 1980/81 coffee crop will probably be about 10% below the record 1978/79
crop and a drop in world coffee prices would further reduce coffee export
earnings. Sugar exports are favored by high world prices. Beef production
and exports, however, are greatly depressed. The cotton area planted, a
crucial variable in the country's economic recovery process, was approximately
140,000 manzanas, including 21,000 now owned by the Government. Although this
represents nearly a tripling of the area planted in 1979, it is less than half
of the peak area planted before the war. The private sector is hesitant to
expand cotton production, particularly in the lower-yield lands, as labor



- 5 -
shortages during harvest season have caused losses in terms of output and
product quality. The Government plans to limit the future area under cotton
to approximately 200,000 manzanas.
17.       The prospects for the industrial sector in 1981 are only fair.
Although it is expected that production in most of the plants under Government
control will surpass 1978 levels, the recovery of private industry continues
to be slow, and exports to Central America have halved. Confidence appears
insufficient to encourage some large and medium size private entrepreneurs to
expand production. Prospects for the mining sector--now nationalized--are,
however, very promising. Gold is becoming a major export commodity for
Nicaragua. Its value may exceed US$35 million in 1981.
18.       Because of the untenability of the 1980 balance of payments deficits,
a stronger effort has been made to cut imports. The expected cuts will come
in food and other nondurable consumer goods, and possibly in intermediate goods
where the restocking needs of 1980 will not be required. On the other hand,
-imports of fuel and particularly of capital goods will probably increase.
Nevertheless, even if the potential for export recovery is fully realized,
the balance of payments picture will continue to be delicate for some time.
As production recovers, imports of capital goods should rise sharply. The
required net external capital flows of medium and long term loans during the
next few years will continue to be high--over a quarter of a billion dollars
per year. Two important determinants of the future net flow of capital will
be the final arrangements reached by the Government with respect to the full
rescheduling of external debt and the aid programs of major donors. During
1981 Nicaragua has continued to receive substantial external aid from bilateral
donors on concessional terms. This has eased the binding foreign exchange
constraint.
Longer-Term Prospects
19.       Nicaragua is favored by a number of conditions conducive to a high
rate of economic growth: the country has a low population density; the
available land resources are of good quality and plentiful--in fact, there
exists much undeveloped frontier land; the core of the transport infrastructure
network is well established; and commodity exports have been more diversified
than those of most of the other Central American countries. In addition,
the Government is giving high priority to productive sectors and to projects
that will generate foreign exchange. It also strongly favors rural development,
and the successful nationwide literacy program is expected to broaden the
long-term development potential of the country.
20.       At the same time there are a number of obstacles to the attainment
of a higher growth path. First and foremost, there is the havoc caused by the
war. Its consequences will linger for a number of years. The tabulated
foreign debt inherited from the last administration is large; at the end of
1979 total long and medium term public debt was US$1.1 billion (not including
debt arrears), or twice the level of exports--about 80% of GDP. Debt service
in 1981 will be about 27 percent of export earnings in spite of a favorable
rescheduling of much commercial debt that defers amortization and some interest
obligations. One of the more serious obstacles to Nicaragua's rapid and
sustained economic growth is the prevailing, and anticipated, low rate of



- 6-
fixed capital formation. l/ A high rate of GDP growth was possible in 1980
and will probably be repeated in 1981, only because production was recovering
from the low level at which it had fallen at the end of thc civil war. In
subsequent years, however, it will be necessary to raise both the share of
total investment to GDP as well as that pertaining to investment in directly
productive activities. Much of the problem lies in the low rate of private
investment. Public investment is already high, more than 10 percent of GDP.
Private investment must at least equal this level if satisfactory growth rates
of GDP are to be attained. Another challenge is the energy sector. The country
will depend for a number of years on costly, imported fossil fuel as a principal
source of electrical energy. Petroleum imports now represent about one-fifth
of total goods imports. Hydroelectric power development has lagged in Nicaragua;
geothermal exploitation is just beginning, and the biomass potential has not
yet been ascertained.
21.       Perhaps the greatest challenge will be the ability of the Government
to lead the country through the prolonged, difficult recovery period. The
policy of restoring past levels of real consumption through monetary and
fiscal expansion and deficits in the current account must be substituted by
one of growing public and private investment, increased revenues from public
enterprises, high productivity, and all this within the framework of social
transformation to which the Government is committed. In the longer term, with
good economic management, Nicaragua could attain the rapid growth rates it has
reached in the past and at the same time gradually succeed in achieving its
more pressing social goals.
22.       As a consequence of the civil war, Nicaragua's per capita income
has dropped below the IDA eligibility threshold. The country has, and is
likely to have for a number of years, serious balance of payments problems.
Until now it has confronted social, economic, and financial challenges in
a pragmatic manner. As noted, the Bank is about to discuss a draft economic
report with the Nicaraguan authorities. The report, while acknowledging
the progress made since the civil war ended, stresses some crucial and
difficult economic policy problems. The balance of payments projections
attached to this President's Report are predicated on a continued effort
to promote exports, restraint in domestic expenditure growth, and a further
revitalization of the productive sectors of the economy. Even so, Nicaragua
will continue for a number of years to require large inflows of concessional
funds from bilateral as well as multilateral sources, to finance the current
account deficit as well as external debt amortization obligations. Recent
indications of the Government's economic policy are positive: fiscal revenues
are expected to be high in 1981; credit expansion has decelerated; restrictions
are being placed on luxury goods imports. Furthermore, the Government has
taken a responsible attitude with respect to its public external debt and is
meeting IBRD/IDA debt service. It has successfully rescheduled its past
public debt with private foreign banks and is presently negotiating the
debt of the recently nationalized banks and public enterprises, as well as
debts with some bilateral donors. It is in light of these actions and of
1/   Annex I, page 4 shows gross investment at 20% of GDP for 1980.  This,
however, is caused by a major restocking of inventories which accounts
for about 4.4% of GDP.



the Government stated intention to follow adequate policies that Nicaragua
is considered creditworthy for the amounts of IBRD lending proposed, although
most lending should continue to be on concessional terms. Indeed, concessionary
assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of individual projects
will be needed to ease the transition period until the economy has recovered
fully from the civil war and the productivity of its capital stock has regained
normal levels.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
23.       Nicaragua to date has received twenty-six Bank loans and five IDA
credits for a total of US$245.6 million. Of these five were for agriculture,
five for transportation, nine for electric power, five for water supply
including one for sewerage, two for education, four to finance earthquake and
civil war reconstruction and one to finance preinvestment studies. So far
twenty-three projects have been completed. Performance audit reports have
been issued for a port project, for an agricultural credit project and for the
second Managua Water Supply Project. The report on the water supply project
(Ln. 808-NI and Cr. 389-NI) indicates that these two projects were successfully
completed and that their principal objectives were met in spite of very
difficult circumstances arising from the earthquake of 1972. The audit report
for the port project (Ln. 879-NI and 879-1-NI) indicates that the project was
successfully implemented, but with substantial modifications, a two-year delay
and a cost increase of about 260%. The project's justification was largely
unaffected, because of an increase in traffic and greater than expected unit
benefits. The audit on the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 943-NI) reports
that while disbursements under this loan moved slowly at first, funds were
committed and disbursed on schedule. Project objectives were generally
achieved, inter alia, the project helped increase meat production. The report
also points out however that the beneficiaries of the subloans were generally
much larger than had been planned. Annex II contains a summary statement on
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981 and a note
on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Because of major fiscal difficulties during 1978 and the disruptive
effects of the revolutionary war in the latter part of 1978 and in most of
1979, the Bank did not lend to Nicaragua between early 1978 and the end of
1979. In mid 1979 it was concluded that meaningful project activities and
adequate supervision of ongoing projects were no longer possible. Therefore,
the Board was informed on July 16 (A 79-192) that no further disbursements
on existing loans and credits would be made. The Government of Nicaragua
was subsequently replaced by a Junta of National Reconstruction. The Junta
requested emergency assistance from the international community to facilitate
recovery from the economic disaster caused by the war as well as by large
11   The text of Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the
President's Report for the Managua Water Supply Engineering Project
(P-3026-NI of April 14, 1981), approved by the Board on April 30, 1981.



- 8 -
outflows of capital. The Bank responded to this Government request by restruc-
turing projects on which substantial balances remained undisbursed and by
making them more responsive to emergency needs. Also an emergency loan/credit
package was extended for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation and for
urban reconstruction. The restructuring of projects was completed in October
1979, at which time the suspension of disbursements was rescinded. The
emergency operations were signed in January 1980. As described in Annex II,
except for some problems with the Ninth Power Project implementation of the
restructured and emergency projects is progressing well.
25.       In the past, the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts;
(b) to help build viable institutions in key sectors, such as water supply
and electric power; and (c) to help spread the benefit of growth to more
people through lending for projects such as education, rural sanitation,
agriculture and water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the recon-
struction effort following the devastating earthquake of 1972.
26.       Because of the Government's continuing preoccupation with emergency
reconstruction requirements, it has not yet been possible to develop a long-
term lending program for the Bank Group. However, a new investment program
for the expanded public sector was recently completed. The Bank was invited
for programming discussions in August of last year. The objective of these
discussions was to develop a tentative program of assistance for the next
three years. This program is summarized in para. 27 below. Its composition
and priorities were confirmed by the investment program completed in early
1981. In support of this program the Bank Group lending activities to
Nicaragua are being closely coordinated with donors such as IDB, CABEI,
USAID and other bilateral agencies.
27.       In view of the disruptions created by the revolutionary war, one
of the most urgent requirements of the Nicaraguan economy has been the estab-
lishment of a mechanism to generate well designed, high priority projects.
The Preinvestment Fund Project, signed December 18, 1980, is assisting in
meeting this requirement. The Managua Water Supply Engineering Project
approved on April 30, 1981 will also help in the preparation of a high
priority infrastructure project. The UNDP/Bank agricultural project pre-
paration office is expected to provide assistance in the identification and
preparation of rural development projects in Central America and Panama.
The Government has also requested assistance for the following additional
projects: (a) infrastructure development projects for water supply and
electric power (geothermal), where the Bank has worked in the past; (b) urban
projects to upgrade low-income neighborhoods in Managua and to finance
municipal improvement elsewhere; (c) agricultural, credit and the development
of tree crops (oil and coco palm); and (d) education.
28.        IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY68 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY74 to local shareholders. In FY76 IFC agreed to provide US$6.5
million in long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to
help expand its production capacity and develop new cane fields. Due to



- 9 -
subsequent cancellations of part of the project by Nicaragua Sugar Estates
Ltd., that commitment wag subsequently reduced to US$4 million. Also in FY76
IFC made a loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respec-
tively, to help finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. Of the
projects financed by IFC, three suffered some damage, but were not destroyed
during the civil,war. Four IFC missions visited Nicaragua during 1980.
Arrangements for rescheduling IFC's loans are still being discussed and are
expected to be completed shortly.
PART III - THE INDTJSTRIAL SECTOR
29.       Over the last 25 years, Nicaragua's industrial sector, including
processed agricultural goods (beef, shrimp, sugar, etc.) and construction
and mining has become increasingly important to the economy. In 1980 it
produced about 30% of GDP, employed 16% of the labor force and generated 43%
of Nicaragua's exports. Manufacturing growth was facilitated by two distinct
developments, both export related. One was the strong expansion of exports of
processed agricultural products, of which sugar, cotton and beef were the most
important. The second was the creation of the Central American Common Market
(CACM) which offered opportunities for substituting imports within the region,
particularly in the production of intermediate goods such as chemicals,
pharmaceutical and metal products. Exports of manufactured products increased
from US$11.5 million in 1960 to US$274.1 million in 1978 or over 19% per year.
Annual export growth rates in excess of 25% were achieved in eight of the 18
years in this period. Since the rate of inflation was modest over the period,
the reported growth rate in exports is nearly in real terms. The structure of
manufactured exports, defined broadly to include processed agricultural goods,
also became more diversified. In 1960 processed food represented 70% of the
total, with wood products providing most of the remaining 30%. By 1978
processed food was still the largest export subsector (60%), but wood products
accounted for only 5%. Others such as chemicals (16%), textiles (6%) and
metal products (4%) also contributed to exports. Within the processed food
subsector, sugar and meat constituted nearly 60% of total exports. Other
important items were frozen shrimp, milk products, and cotton seed oil. The
most important chemical exports were insecticides, caustic soda and poly-
vinylchloride; exports of textiles involved mostly cotton cloth; most wood
products exports were in the form of sawn wood and their manufacturing value
added content was low.
30.       The civil war which ended in July 1979 left a major impact on
Nicaragua's industrial sector. The table below shows industrial activities
in the context of GDP prior, during and after the civil war. Performance was
good up to 1977, but then deteriorated substantially. In 1980 a substantial
recovery was recorded but it was below Government targets.



- 10 -
NICARAGUA: Industrial and Mining Output
(in millions of Cordobas-1958 prices)
1970     1975      1977      1978      1979     1980
GDP (market prices)  4664.3   6112.7   6428.2   5982.5   4470.3   4915.8
(% change per year)    -         5.6%      2.6%    -6.0%   -25.3%    10.8%
Agriculture            1073.1   1427.9   1499.1   1593.6   1351.6   1213.6
(% change per year)    -         5.9%      2.5%      6.3%   -15.2%   -10.2%
Industry (total)      1261.6   1756.6   2023.1   1864.1   1266.1   1486.9
(% change per year)    -         6.8%      7.3%    -7.9%   -32.1%    17.4%
Manufacturing          1071.0   1426.6   1635.1   1638.8   1190.7   1348.9
Construction            158.3    304.2    340.5    188.9       51.0    101.6
Mining                   32.3     25.8      47.5      36.4      24.4     36.4
Industrial production virtually ceased for almost two months in 1979, and
domestic demand was substantial reduced.  War damage was most severe in
Managua, where about 60% of Nicaragua's industrial output is produced.
A number of plants in Managua were completely destroyed, and many others
suffered major damage. The replacement cost of the damaged industrial facili-
ties was estimated at over US$50 million, or about 5-10% of the book value of
fixed assets for the entire sector. Many plants which did not suffer physical
damage experienced widespread stock losses, as a result of looting. The value
of inventory losses thus sustained was of the order of US$60 million.
31.       The new Government, which took over on July 19, 1979, issued a decree
on July 29, 1979, authorizing the expropriation of all the assets of former
President Somoza, his family and associates. Thus, by 1980, 20% 1/ of the
manufacturing sector which had hitherto been completely in private hands was
taken over by the state. The public ownership of the construction industry
increased from 40% to 75% and the whole mining sector passed from private to
public ownership. The state also effectively controls the wood processing and
the metal-mechanics industries; it has important holdings in textiles, chemicals
and agroindustry (particularly meat packing, cotton ginning, sugar refining
and milling of basic grains). Nevertheless, the private sector in terms of
its share of output and as an employer remains very important to the recovery
of Nicaragua's industrial sector.
1/   Including only enterprises in which the Government has a majority holding.



- 11 -
32.       In its immediate reconstruction efforts, the new Government established
three main objectives for the production sectors: (i) to restore production,
particularly of foodstuffs; (ii) to generate employment; and (iii) to promote
exports. Given the gradual restoration of the transportation, communications
and construction sectors, improved administration and the availability of
international financial assistance, it was hoped that industrial output in
1980 would reach about 85% of the 1978 level. Actual 1980 data show that
only 78% of the 1978 level was achieved. Particularly disappointing was the
performance of manufactured exports which in 1980 reached only 62% of their
1978 level. It is interesting to note that the volume of imports by the
industrial sector was almost the same as that of the last pre-war year.
NICARAGUA: Survey of 163 Manufacturing Enterprises (1980)
Gross
Value
No. of  % of    of       % of              % of  Employment  % of
Entp.  Total  Produc.  Total  Exports   Total   Dec/80    Total
(¢m)      ~      ~(FM)
100% state owned   62      38      1538       21       704      42     16153      41
50-99% state
owned            22     13       796      11         76       5      5790      15
1-49% state owned  19      12      1218       16       305      18      4061      10
100% privately
owned            60     37      3908      52        581      35     13445      34
Total         163    100      7459     100       1666    100      39449    100
33.       The sharp rise in the international price of gold has more
than quintupled export receipts of this metal since 1979. In 1980 exports
of gold were about US$33 million. The exports of minerals amounted to about
8% of total commodity exports.
34.       As output dropped in 1979, unemployment in industry rose sharply.
Although many workers were being used in emergency repair or maintenance
activities, it was estimated that, by the end of 1979, one quarter of the
economically active population in manufacturing was without work. Many
enterprises kept workers on the payroll by working short shifts or using them
on alternating days.  The decline, therefore, in the level of employment was
less than that of output. The sector also experienced serious losses of
managerial and technical personnel. During the period of intense fighting,
many trained professionals and technicians left Nicaragua. While some have
returned, many top managers have not. Although the country still has a fairly
sizeable pool of executives, personnel losses have led to problems in restoring
output in key subsectors.



- 12 -
35.       The relatively modest pace of the post war industrial reactivation
process was accompanied by a significant fall in labor productivity, due
chiefly to frequent work stoppages, low capacity utilization (in 1980, state
manufacturing enterprises, for example, operated only at an average 65%
capacity), occasional shortages of imported inputs, slow revival of the
construction sector and low investments. Many enterpreneurs did not invest
or increase production because of an uncertain economic outlook and because
of a perceived uncertain political future. The Government has made efforts to
encourage investments in the private sector. Nearly half of the disbursements
under the industrial component of the first rehabilitation project went to
the private sector. Under the proposed project, private and public sector
companies will again have access to its proceeds on an equal basis.
36.       The Government faced a major problem in having to organize the
administration and management of a large number of enterprises. This task
included the establishment of sectoral and subsectoral objectives and priori-
ties, coordination both between and within subsectors and management of
-individual enterprises. Its task was further complicated by the fact that
many of the enterprises concerned were the ones most affected by the civil
war, not only physically and through looting, but also by decapitalization
and destruction of records (particularly financial information). Consequently,
the Government had to focus first on the establishment of a structure to
manage and administer state enterprises. By mid-1980, this structure was
largely in place, so that more effort could be devoted in the second half of
1980 to operational matters and to the restoration of the productive capacity
of individual enterprises.
37.       According to the 1980-81 emergency and recovery program the principal
objectives of the public manufacturing enterprises are to: (i) improve income
distribution, (ii) increase the supply of basic consumption goods, (iii)
generate employment, (iv) regulate prices on the national market, (v) generate
surpluses to allow for self-financing, (vi) increase the role of planning and
(vii) introduce direct worker participation. The 1981 Plan supports these
objectives in general terms. The 1980-81 emergency and recovery program lists
the following industrial subsectors in which public manufacturing enterprises
are expected to play a crucial role: food, textiles, garments, footwear,
drugs, veterinary products, construction materials, articles for education
(paper and printing), machinery and transport equipment, and basic manufactur-
ing inputs (chemical, rubber, petroleum products).
The Banking System
38.       Prior to the war, Nicaragua had a mixture of public and private
commercial banks and specialized financial institutions regulated by the
Central Bank (BCN) and monitored by a Superintendent of Banks. Government
institutions, accounting for 53% of the financial system's total assets in
1976, included the National Bank of Nicaragua (BNN), the country's largest
commercial bank; the National Development Institute (INFONAC); the Banco de



- 13 -
la Vivienda, a public housing bank; and two institutions specializing in
small-scale loans. Private institutions included seven commercial banks, 1!
six finance companies and six financial warehouses, which together accounted
for 43% of total assets. 2/ Despite the diversity of institutions, two
competing private groups controlled approximately three-fourths of the total
assets of the private financial institutions.
39.       The largest and most important financial institutions were multi-
purpose intermediaries; however, a certain degree of specialization by sector
was reflected in their loan portfolios. BNN concentrated on agriculture and
livestock loans, private banks on commercial and industrial loans, and INFONAC
and the finance companies on industry. INFONAC has been the major lender of
medium and long-term funds for industry and agriculture; however, since 1972
the banking system has been able to draw on the FED, administered by the
Central Bank, for such lending (see para. 50).
40.       After a long period of monetary stability, the financial sector
-had come to share many of the characteristics of more developed financial
systems, and the banking system had expanded to include 227 branches and
agencies located throughout the country. While some of the public financial
intermediaries were poorly run, Nicaragua's private banks enjoyed the public's
confidence and were generally considered to be sound and well-managed insti-
tutions.
41.        The situation of the country's financial intermediaries began to
deteriorate after 1977 and worsened substantially during the subsequent two
years. Commercial bank deposits fell between March 1977 and mid-1979 by 23%
while total loans outstanding increased by one-third. Interest and principal
arrears accumulated to about 30% of total loan portfolios. The resulting
drain of resources was financed through increased borrowings from foreign
sources and the Central Bank. Foreign currency borrowings during the period
rose by 150% while borrowings from the Central Bank increased by 230%. The
devaluation of the Cordoba by 43% in April 1979 increased the liabilities
of the banking system as most of its foreign loans had been lent in local
currency.
42.       The Government nationalized private domestic financial institutions,
named new managers to replace those who had left the country and provided
some liquidity support through BCN to keep these institutions in operation to
prevent a total collapse of the system. The banking Superintendent ordered
detailed internal audits of all institutions, including an assessment of the
quality of all outstanding loans. This effort was complicated by the expansion
of the public sector, since many new state-owned firms owed large sums to
1/   Including three branches of foreign banks.
2/   In addition, the financial system included insurance companies,
warrants companies, and savings and loans associations which did
not come under the supervision of the Banking Superintendent and
represented 4% of total financial system assets.



- 14 -
state-owned banks which, in turn, owed large sums to foreign creditors. In
late 1979, BCN undertook studies of how the banking system could be restruc-
tured and recapitalized and began to introduce a number of changes.
43.       On June 17, 1980, a complete reorganization of the structure of
the banking system was announced. The total number of financial institutions
was reduced through a series of mergers to 5: Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
(BND); Banco de America (BAMER); Banco de Nicaragua (BANIC); Banco Popular
(BP); and Banco Inmobiliario (BIN).  The Government's objective in creating
the new structure was (a) to minimize the cost of maintaining separate institu-
tions servicing the same clientele, (b) pursue a policy of decentralization
which would do away with the clustering of branches in major urban areas,
(c) enable better coordination at the national level of institutions with
clearly separate objectives and, (d) increase public confidence in the banking
system by limiting it to a few well-established institutions fully backed by
the Government. The entire system was placed under the direction of the
newly-created Corporacion Financiera (CORFIN), which acts as a holding company
for the five banks, providing overall direction in the implementation of the
Government's monetary policy and ensuring overall consistency of banking
practices throughout the system.
44.      *The Government has been pursuing a monetary policy based upon
interest rates and credit controls. Interest ceilings were reimposed, and on
January 30, 1980, a new rate structure was adopted, based on the priority
ranking of the activity to be financed. Depending upon end-use, rates of
14-17% were applicable to short-term loans and 12-15% for long-term loans
(over 18 months). Enterprises which had suffered losses during the civil war
of more than 35% of total assets (less liquid assets) could receive loans of
up to 10 years; enterprises that had not, were limited to a 6-year term.
45.       During the first six months of 1980, outstanding credit increased
by 25%, 31% of the increase was on short-term, while long-term credit
increased by 17%. Due to the critical need much of the incremental credit
resources were directed to finance the 1980-81 crop year and to provide
operating capital for several of the state-owned enterprises. On April 1,
1981, the Government increased interest rates for the industrial and mining
sectors except a 12% rate for lending to small scale enterprises; the rates
were raised generally from 12 to 17% for medium and long term lending and from
14 to 18% for short term lending. Rates for eligible export promotion projects
were set at 15%. The Government will review the interest rate structure at
least once a year and will consult with the Bank on its adequacy for subloans,
under the project. It plans to achieve a positive interest rate structure
over the life of subprojects.
46.       The major issue facing the banking system in 1981 is the lack of
credit availability. The capacity of the banking system to mobilize additional
domestic savings is limited and the Government, which recently negotiated a
rescheduling of its entire foreign liabilities, has been unable to obtain new
foreign credits. Unless adequate external support is provided by foreign
institutional lenders, the Government has little choice other than to impose
severe credit rationing.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
47.       The Government of Nicaragua gives highest priority to productive
projects, especially those with foreign exchange and employment generating
potential. In July 1980, the Government submitted to the Bank for possible
financing a request for a second industrial rehabilitation credit project. A
report entitled Nicaragua-Staff Appraisal Report on an Industrial Rehabilita-
tion Credit Project (no. 3364a-NI, dated May 29, 1981) is being distributed
separately. The project was first appraised in September 1980 and again
in March 1981. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing
the proposed project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington,
D.C. from May 19 to May 22, 1981. The Nicaraguan delegation was led by
Mr. Bernardo Chamorro, Vice Minister of the Fondo Internacional para la
Reconstrucion (FIR).
Objectives and Project Description
48.       The proposed project would be a follow-up project to the industrial
component of the Agriculture and Industrial Rehabilitation Project (Ln.
1785-NI and Cr. 966-NI). Its objective would be to assist the Government in
its efforts to regain pre-war levels of output, exports and employment in the
industrial sector. This project would help rehabilitate industrial and mining
enterprises which suffered damage attributable to the civil war. Priority in
credit allocation would be given to enterprises whose rehabilitation would
result in increased exports. Loan proceeds would be used to finance raw
materials, parts, machinery replacements, balancing equipment and related
civil works and services enabling industrial and mining enterprises in the
public and private sectors to restore lost productive capacity. The FED, the
beneficiary of the loan would channel rehabilitation subloans to industrial
firms through five intermediary institutions. The project would also include
technical assistance and training components to: (a) assist FED and the
financial intermediaries to upgrade their project preparation, appraisal and
supervision capability; (b) assist state industrial and mining corporations to
strengthen their capability to administer enterprises under their control and
to help resolve specific technical and accounting problems at the enterprise
level; (c) assist the Fmpresa Nicaraguense de Promocion de Exportacion (ENIPREX)
to promote exports; and (d) assist the Nicaraguan Institute for Public Adminis-
tration (INAP) to develop accounting systems for public enterprises. The FED
would make available the proceeds of the technical assistance portion of the
loan to beneficiaries, with FINAPRI providing assistance in the preparation
of work programs, terms of reference and the selection and supervision of
consultants (see Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       FED's 1981-82 project pipeline indicates a need for foreign
exchange financing for rehabilitation of about US$50 million. Except
for a possible US$16.5 million loan from IDB for financing agroindustrial



- 16 -
subprojects which is not included in the above estimate, no other external
resources are expected to be available for the rehabilitation of the industrial
sector. Given Nicaragua's critical foreign exchange situation, the most
urgent rehabilitation needs are for enterprises capable of generating export
earnings. These are mainly in the subsectors of mining, textiles, sugar
refining, metal products and chemical-pharmaceutical production. The pro-
posed project would, therefore, give priority to the financing of such enter-
prises. The proceeds of the loan would be allocated as follows: (a) US$27.5
million to provide credit mainly to export oriented enterprises (US$15 million
of this amount would be explicitly reserved for enterprises that export at
least 1/3 of their output); and (b) US$2.5 million to help provide technical
assistance (see Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.        Institutional Structure.  The FED, which will be responsible for carry-
ing out the project making the subloans, was created by Decree No. 323 of April 12,
1972 as a Government-owned fund administered by BCN as the Government's fiduciary
agent. After the civil war, control of the FED was shifted from BCN to the newly
-established BND. Following the reorganization of the financial system in
June 1980, the representation of FED was given to the newly established CORFIN
(see para. 43). The FED's main objectives are to channel long-term resources
from multilateral and bilateral financial institutions through financial inter-
mediaries to technically and economically sound investment projects. The Govern-
ment through CORFIN provides FED with counterpart funds through equity contri-
butions and loans.
51.       The FED's lending operations commenced in 1973 with three programs:
crop and livestock development (partially financed under Loan 943-NI); agro-
industrial development (largely financed by IDB); and construction and building
materials (also IDB financed). A small-scale enterprise program was established
at the end of 1975. FED's operating capabilities were not materially affected
by the revolution, and under the Bank's first Agricultural and Industrial
Rehabilitation Project, FED was given responsibility for implementation and
supervision of the project. FED is headed by an executive director who is
assisted by three directors in charge of three lending departments, the
agricultural department, the industrial department, and small-scale enterprise
department. As of November 1980, FED's agricultural program, accounted for
54% of total cumulative loan commitments. Industrial lending, which accounted
for 29% of the total, has been concentrated on agro-industry, construction,
construction materials, and tourism as well as on financing preinvestment
studies. Small-scale enterprise financing has grown to represent about 17%
of the FED's total lending.
52.       Although many FED employees remained after the war, FED has had to
strengthen the staff in order to deal with the requirements of the rehabilita-
tion effort. While the Industrial Department's present staff of five pro-
fessionals has been generally adequate in both numbers and quality for the
ongoing operations, the planned increases in the volume of operations will
require additional staff. During negotiations it was agreed that by
September 30, 1981, FED would hire one financial analyst and one deputy
director to strengthen the Industrial Department (see Section 2.02 of the
draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
53.       Appraisal and Supervision.  In view of the increased volume of
activities under the proposed loan, FED and the intermediary banks would need
to strengthen their capabilities in the preparation and review of subproject
appraisals. As under the previous project, appraisals of subprojects would
continue to evaluate fully the technical and managerial feasibility of rehabil-
itating an enterprise. However under the proposed project a more thorough
analysis of the future prospects of each individual firm would also be required.
This analysis would take into account, inter alia, marketing prospects for the
increased output, ability to service debt, and the procurement procedures to
be followed. Financial intermediaries would work closely with potential
beneficiaries in the preparation of appraisals and ongoing supervision of
subprojects, and would bear the credit risk. The FED would have ultimate
responsibility for the quality of appraisals and the effectiveness of super-
vision. During negotiations, agreement was reached that any changes in the
guidelines for appraisal and supervision would require Bank approval (see
Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement) and that subsidiary loan agreements
between the FED and participating institutions would be satisfactory to the
-Bank (see Section 2.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). A training program
would be provided under the project to enable FED and the financial intermediary
staff to carry out a substantially expanded role in subproject appraisal and
supervision. Project beneficiaries would also be invited to participate in
the training courses. During negotiations, agreement was reached with FED
that the content and timing of the proposed training program would have to
be satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Operating Policies.  The policies and procedures which govern FED's
utilization of the proposed Bank loan are set forth in FED's revised Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures for Industrial Lending. It specifies,
among other things: (i) FED's objectives in financing industrial investment
projects; (ii) the types of projects that FED would finance; (iii) the terms
and limits of financing; (iv) criteria for project approval; (v) the responsi-
bilities of intermediaries receiving financing from FED; and (vi) a restriction
on FED that it would only finance subprojects for which adequate alternative
sources of financing are not available. The policy statement as presently
drafted, would form a satisfactory basis for FED's channeling of Bank funds
for productive sector lending under the proposed project. FED has formally
adopted the policy statement, and project appraisal and supervision guidelines
(para. 53). Any subsequent modification of the statement would require prior
Bank approval (see Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
55.       Financial Position.  FED's consolidated historial balance sheets
show rapid loan portfolio growth in nominal terms from US$657,000 in 1973 to
about US$73 million in 1980. Loan repayments by financial intermediaries must
be made regardless of whether payments by the ultimate beneficiaries have been
received, through the intermediaries' clearing accounts with BCN. Except for
1978, the FED's financial spreads did not fully compensate for its operating
costs, and through 1979, it incurred cumulative losses of US$1.8 million,
mainly in connection with administration of its agricultural portfolio. These



- 18 -
losses were more than compensated for by BCN contributions of US$2.1 million
to cover administrative expenses. Most of FED's initial resources were granted
on concessional terms, and BCN's policy was that the cost of administering
these funds should not be passed on to the ultimate beneficiary and that
FED should be supported with contributions to income which, in effect, amounted
to a subsidy. The spread of 2.4%, for major export subprojects, or 4.4% for
other subprojects, to be received by FED under the proposed project, is
estimated to be sufficient to enable FED to more than fully recover its
operating expenses connected with the project.  The Government has indicated
that any excess revenues will be added to FED's capital.
56.       Project Operations.  The FED's industrial pipeline for 1981-82
contains more than 70 rehabilitation subprojects for the industrial sector
with total investment costs of US$68 million equivalent. The FED expects to
finance US$50 million, or about 75% of the total cost. The participating
financial intermediaries and final borrowers would provide the balance. While
some of these projects may be dropped or delayed, the existing project pipeline
can be expected to be expanded significantly during the implementation period
of the proposed loan. Thus, the FED's total lending program to the manufac-
turing sector in 1981-82 is expected to require at least US$50 million in
external financing. The proposed Bank loan, which would be directed primarily
to financing export oriented subprojects, would help provide part of the
resources required. Since public enterprises must publish their investment
needs as part of the Government's annual investment plan, the FED "pipeline"
is presently weighted towards public sector subprojects, which account for
about 70% of the total number of subprojects and about 70% of the total FED
financing requested. However, as most new subprojects entering the "pipeline"
are expected to be from the private sector, this trend should be reversed in
the coming months. In line with Government plans for a mixed economy and to
encourage investments in the private sector, the Government will ensure access
on an equal basis to proceeds of the proposed loan for private and public
sector enterprises (see Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Participating Intermediaries.  Following the reorganization of the
banking system, 'only five banking institutions (i.e., BND, BANIC, BAMER, BP
and BIN), now participate in FED's lending program. The five banks continue
to have specialized units to handle FED operations. It is expected that
they would all participate as financial intermediaries in channeling the
credit portion of the proposed loan. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
(see Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The technical assistance
component of the proposed loan would be administered by FED with assistance
from FINAPRI. Technical assistance agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be signed between FED, FINAPRI and the intermediary institutions (see Section 2.03
of the draft Project Agreement). It would be a condition of disbursement for
each technical assistance subcomponent, that the respective technical assistance
agreement (see Schedule 1 3(v) of the draft Loan Agreement) had been signed
and was satisfactory to the Bank.
58.       The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to FED under
an agreement satisfactory to the Bank the signing of which would be a condition
of effectiveness (see Section 3.01(b) and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The loan proceeds would be allocated as follows:



- 19 -
(a) US$27.5 million for subprojects which are likely to have
a substantial balance of payments impact, carried out by
industrial 1/ and mining enterprises. The former to include
primary processing of agriculture, livestock and forestry pro-
duction and construction materials and the latter to include both
metals and non-metallic minerals.  US$15 million of this amount
would be earmarked for enterprises which can demonstrate that
at least one-third of total output would be exported should the
proposed rehabilitation take place (see Schedule 2, Part A(1)
of the draft Loan Agreement and Part IIA l(c) of the Schedule
to the draft Project Agreement).
(b) US$2.5 million of the proposed loan would be utilized for
technical assistance as follows: (i) US$50,000 for consulting
services to help FED, the financial intermediaries and ultimate
beneficiaries upgrade their capability to prepare, appraise
and supervise subproject; (ii) US$1,265,000 to assist CONDEMINA by
providing consulting services to operate the major mines under
its jurisdiction, to conduct a mineral inventory, and to provide
scholarships in mining to CONDEMINA trainees; (iii) US$970,000
to COIP to upgrade the performance of firms in the metal-mechanics,
food processing and pharmaceutical sectors, and to provide scholar-
ships in food technology; (iv) US$115,000 to help INAP develop an
accounting system for public enterprises, and scholarships for
public officials in public administration; and (v) US$100,000 to
assist ENIPREX promote exports of industrial enterprises (see
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total cost of the project is expected to amount to US$43 million.
The Bank would provide US$30 million or about 70% of total cost, which includes
its foreign exchange costs, estimated at US$26 million, and a portion of its
local costs. This is justified in view of the extreme scarcity of credit
resources available in Nicaragua in relation to the needs of the economy in
general and the project in particular. Project sponsors would be required to
provide a minimum 10% of the total project cost, and financial intermediaries
would provide the balance needed to complete the financial plan (on average
about 20% of total project cost).
Relending Terms and Conditions
60.       Terms and conditions of subloans (see Schedule to the draft Project
Agreement) would be for up to 5 years for working capital loans and up to 15
years for repair, replacement and or modification of fixed assets and related
services, required for a rehabilitation subproject. A grace period in either
case of up to 3 years would be permitted. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk but would onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to
1/   One exception would be the textile subsector, in which the results
of an ongoing study of the reorganization of the subsector would determine
whether or not Bank funds could be used for financing textile rehabilita-
tion projects (see para. 3(iv) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
FED on IBRD terms. The FED would lend to financial intermediaries at 14%, or
12% for special program subloans and the latter would relend to ultimate
beneficiaries at 17% or for special program subloans at 15% (See Schedules
to the draft Project Agreement). The adequacy of the rates would be reviewed
annually by the Government, who would consult with the Bank on the conclusions
of the review; the first such consultation is to take place not later than
March 31, 1982. In the event that the Bank should not agree to the rate
charged for subloans subsequent to a review it would have the right to stop
further commitments under the project (see Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The FED, which would share responsibility for subproject appraisal
and supervision with the commercial banks, would thus receive a spread of 4.4%
or 2.4% while participating Banks would receive a spread of 3%. The above
conditions would be reflected in the agreements between the Government
and CORFIN acting for FED and between FED and the financial intermediaries.
61.       The FED would review all subproject appraisals submitted by the
financial intermediaries, and all subloans above US$500,000 as well as the
-first three subprojects from each of the mining, chemical, pharmaceutical and
sugar industries (regardless of subloan amount), would be subject to the
Bank's prior approval. This procedure is expected to result in a review by
the Bank of some 30-35 subprojects covering about 75% of the subproject
financing being provided under the proposed loan. The maximum amount of Bank
funds that could be relent to a single enterprise would be US$3 million. As
under the first loan, amounts repaid to the FED in excess of amounts needed to
service the FED's debt to the Government would be used for additional lending
in line with the provision of FED's charter (see Section 2.12 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Procurement
62.       The loan funds would finance the foreign exchange costs of imported
and locally procured equipment, materials, civil works and services as well as
a portion of the local costs involved. Consulting services for training and
technical assistance would be open to international recruitment. The estimated
man-month cost of such assistance is US$9,800. Procurement would be carried
out in accordance with FED guidelines which have been approved by the Bank.
Participating intermediaries would satisfy themselves that procurement items
are suitable for the respective investment projects, that they are reasonably
priced and that the beneficiaries have canvassed the main sources of supply
and that they are purchased from the most advantageous source. All subproject
appraisal reports would be required to include a full discussion of the
procurement procedures used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria
established for selection of suppliers.
Disbursements
63.       The Bank would disburse against an approved subproject and list of
goods and services, subject to the total cost of such goods and services not
to exceed 70% of the total cost of the rehabilitation subproject of the borrow-
ing enterprise. For items on the approved list of goods and services the Bank
would disburse against 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports and 100%
of expenditures for locally procured goods and services. The Bank would also
disburse for 100% of consulting services and scholarships. Disbursements
would be made for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to receipt by the
Bank of subloan requests, in lieu of the normal 90 day limit due to the longer



- 21 -
processing needs of a two tier relending system.  The final date for submission
of subprojects would be March 31, 1983, and the closing date for disbursements
would be March 31, 1984. Disbursements would be fully documented. To prevent
a sharp decline in output at three major gold mines, FED had to provide bridge
financing for certain items of mining equipment, last February. Retroactive
financing, to reimburse FED up to the equivalent of US$1.6 million, is,
therefore, proposed for financing of expenditures incurred after February 1,
1981, for mining equipment.
Accounting and Auditing
64.       FED would maintain separate project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied. The project accounts and
related annual financial statements, would be audited annually in accordance
with generally accepted auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited, annual, comparative financial state-
ments would include a balance sheet, a statement of income and expenses, a
-statement of source and application of funds. Supplementary data on operations,
financial position, quality of portfolio and scope of work carried out by the
auditors and such other additional information as the Bank might from time to
time reasonably request would be provided. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that FED would employ auditors satisfactory to the Bank and that all
annual audit reports and financial statements would be submitted to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year (see Section 3.01(b) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       A large portion of the task of industrial rehabilitation in Nicaragua
remains to be achieved. The proposed project would focus on areas in which
the effects of rehabilitation would have the most immediate impact of meeting
priority needs of the economy. Most of the loan proceeds would be channeled
to firms with export potential, whose rehabilitation would result in signifi-
cant foreign exchange earnings, such as processed sugar, refined gold and
silver, chemicals, plastics, metal and wood products. For example, the
rehabilitation of Nicaragua's major gold mines could result in incremental
annual exports of up to 20,000 ounces of gold per year; restoring the lost
output of five state-owned sugar mills would result in increasing sugar
exports by over 100,000 metric tons.
66.       The project is expected to result in the recovery of a substantial
number of jobs lost as a result of the decline in industrial production
following the civil war; it is estimated that about 5,000 jobs would be
restored by the project. In addition, a substantial indirect employment
effect is expected due to backward linkages of the agro-industrial subprojects.
The impact on Nicaragua's balance of payments should also be substantial,
since the bulk of the loan proceeds is expected to finance industrial export
enterprises.
67.       The proposed project would also assist in strengthening the capabil-
ity of the FED, financial intermediaries, state corporations and private
industrialists to base lending decisions on sound technical and financial



- 22 -
criteria, through improving their capacity to prepare, appraise and supervise
subprojects. In addition, the project would provide key technical assistance,
which would strengthen the state enterprises which are most involved in the
rehabilitation of industry and mining.
68.       Lending to a sector which has been affected by a civil war, and
large parts of which have become part of the public sector requiring new
organization and management structures, involves risks. Bank funds would be
made available only to enterprises considered capable of recovering productive
capacity. The availability of technical assistance in project preparation,
appraisal and supervision should give additional assurances that the subprojects
financed are technically and financially viable, and that beneficiaries have
reasonable prospects for marketing their products. The technical assistance
and training component which is designed both to strengthen FED and to help
major state industrial and mining corporations to upgrade their operating
efficiency, should also contribute to reducing risks. There remains the risk
that the private sector may not fully participate in the investment program.
In view of the Government's stated intentions of operating a mixed economy
prospect for increased private sector participation are good. Based on FED's
present pipeline of subprojects, the Government estimates that about a third
of the funds under the loan will be utilized by private sector companies. The
Government expects that additional private sector subprojects will be presented
during project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Government of Nicaragua
and the Bank, and the Draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CORFIN,
and the Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The most important features and special conditions
of the draft Loan Agreement have been included in Part IV and are summa-
rized in Section III of Annex III of the report. It would be an additional
condition of effectiveness that the subsidiary agreements satisfactory to
the Bank between FED and the participating institutions, has been signed.
It would be a condition of disbursement for each technical assistance subcom-
ponent that the Bank has received and approved the respective technical
assistance agreement.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -
Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            130.0
AGRICULTURAL      48.9                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIHATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 260.0       480.0      660.0               1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     174.0       418.0     517.0                1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.4         1.9       2.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.4        47.2       52.1                 63.4                     53.'9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. MOS.                      11.0        15.0      19.0                  28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     30.0        39.0      51.0                  01.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.8        48.6      48.1                  41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                         49.7        49.0      49.4                  54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5         2.4       2.5                   3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.9       3.3                   2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              4.2         4.2       4.6                   4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        45.0      45.0                  34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0        15.0       13.0                  8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3         3.3        3.3                  2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        10.1       15.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       19.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          88.0       100.0     102.0                 106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  104.0       109.0     109.0                 107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.0        74.0      70.0                  65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       37.0        42.0      42.0                  33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     30.0          ..       17.0                  8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.0         50.4      55.0                  63. 1                    67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       122.0                            66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                               ..          ..       70.0                 65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      100. 0                80. 4
RURAL                               ..          ..       34.0                 44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                  62. 3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  79.4
RURAL                               ..         8.0      24. 0                 29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2739.0      1999.Ojc  1666.0                1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       751.0     800.0                1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            431.0       422.0     484.0                 480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..       222.0     285.0
RURAL                               ..      2170.0    1963.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                   ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              6. 1/d       ..
URBAN                              5.BLd        ..
RURAL                              6.3/d        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2. 8/d      2.9
URBAN                              2.2/d        ..
RURAL                              3. 2/d       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IDELLINGS)
TOTAL                             33.0        41.0
URBAN                             71. 0       76.7
RURAL                              4.0         7.0



ANNEX I
- 24 -
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGhTED AVEPAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT              IIIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUTPOPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         83.0       92.0                  99.7                    105.9
MALE                  65.0         82.0        ..                 101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                66.0        84.0         ..                  99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   7.0        18.0       29.0                  34.4                     64.0
MALE                   9.0         19.0        ..                  33.5                      71. 1
FEMALE                 6.0        17.0         ..                  34. 7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1% OF SECONDARY)  24.0          9.0        9.0                  38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0         39.0         ..                  30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0        26.0         ..                  14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        53.0       57.0                  76. 3
CONSUISPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         17.0       16.0                  43.0                     84. 6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOVSAND
POpULATION                         51.0         55.0     157. 0                 245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         28.0       38.0                  84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        28.0       26.0                  63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5. 0           ..         ..                    ..                      5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       445.0        550.0      735.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.1         20.3       22.0                  22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.3        51.0       44.0                  37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 16.0         15.0       15.0                  23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.0        30.0       29.8                  31.5                     40.9
MALE                                  51. 7       48.4       47.3                  48.9                     55.9
PEMALE                                10. 5       12.0       12. 6                 14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 6        1. 7       1. 7                  1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS       ..        42.4/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          65.4/e
LCWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          3. IL       *
toWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         8. 7        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      262.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      183.0                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      319.0                 474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      155.0                 332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       21.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       :9.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatiso-weighted arithmetic rneans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet-een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betwen 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d 1963;  /e Rural population only.
Most recent estimates of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-25-                                                         AN~~~~NEX I
Paee 3 Qf 5
DEFINlITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
None-   Although the dotsare drawn from- source  genralyjd."ged the   . m ost huthoritative an  relabe,t  hould olsohe noted chat they nay not he Iate-
ntOnal    -opara.beI becus  o      . nb  ak Ofstaaditad defintion a.cI.d concpts used bydeffret  ou Irte  in  -o1-etelg the date.  The dgts are,noe
thls,usflt  dscniba order  ot  ieitd . tdt-attIeda  sod  ca                       --etsetin salo  differences   t..  -    t..
The  esmoegoy  and ii) the san  cu ~cupo 1ibe subjec  county en  (2) gc-onncy gon o. itb somehat highei overge  ocome than the country group
ofitesbet001cmcotfe"al                          upu   u E.oprer'  grupebre'fdieb eorh fcasdMdddeI East" ie  hosn. ecus  of mtrnger
IaIn-rui.. nal ..e fitticis     O ntetrec    ru   a tth  aeig-               r  ppuato   suitdartbelcinae  c Nd!ea   otso   n   hstol  hne
besanhalf  f thecoustiesieruo      a  dotsI fo   hat iot ean   lioc Plbs oti-ag  ofKh. ho.ces             jb    hnireoadi-erd  on the ev.i,ain   of .
Ifnenictnaah..ontecutnadIeeec                                    ru.
ATAI%-,(thonseod sq.Itut.d   torlt ton -neet T'b...i  -.&.   .  .ou .ao  diynd.d byl noier -                                                         ios pothctugply
Toal- Totasufcaracansglndre   adInlt   ases                                           InIfo  qulIie  frm    medical. sopool at u hniner blty ise            f
dnantculduf.l - aifa.      o  agiutrlea           Is temoarl  oryraety                     Prlna   e    usa   aao-Pplno   ile   ynme   fpinc
-for- crops, -t  patre.iuhtan   iths--d-ao  n   i  flow    97taa.hisad  ege-rdut   ora,  rctclyuaa,sd  slfatanea
T- PE  AIT  -159)-  -iPprcPlita- esiae  a   urn  sem    rie,oi                           nh      n  ruegi.divded1y ibdr-r-pedive  umbby           o  hominp  beds
197,  od199 an.                                                                    bebtinslyreuers Ifoei..ahle  apeesabis-meee  peagosipsng e
-~~g         elp         "     -    -tIY        P.P.I.~~~by  t leas  sue pbyecie.    PIstablibeeo    pei vid b.ing .I peiopall   rsodi,
GNPfER1 CAITiAfli  PIt~.  CAP ITA  pt.k.tuacosminofoecia  enrg  (coal                         rare are non inlued  Ruraltt. hospitals, bo -oer  inid  health. end  eira
trnty)11.. to- b -ogVa  of- coa  eqiaio   pard c.:Apils;. iB1971,7 and.) 1960               naee  siwife, etc d.) whithoferlin-anie                - orodnof   endit pbsdm
dens,   dI                                                                                   bignite  rang  ofli medica  failitie.    Pote-    steist-icald purpists rhenhasp-
ne itts uld   ,fPs principa  gator1  en.  d sclihetd hPita-ls, and eeId
amengroioonilrtas   91 91  aol199 dtaaAerae7it IT   g- tehld (rarsn                                                                    i ir hou behobd   I onl. ren,i ndmaa1
tota  poplavrn b  eg  andseaend  heirmaralit  an  feriliy  raes. the  -anar  ofo aldcatint   IIra1 porposces.-..    Tloh.pi
dece.   gdfml  naopcoc   nalilga   75yas    h  pnOe-                                  Adoeli-ogE  reHspacivel.dh iTo-Ing -b-- tdntpruottstductuegan
feclm   grrigicbco  loladpatfml p...in p.foranc.tAoes  noh.et dicidco                                              t (r heoo  ofb dnlina -I oa,ura,addua
"Each countryin tb t -Ige   coo           ff-las  o.ce   ...hlueiton  of metltdooouolbl lg   iheet  ut   cliutqotr   spretg
the  iot  can  isIqueHnod..dathnet, an  elo thegetrururee-                           IfJClSd
ta the  ea P 1A-10.1i,ban  ta  otL o  de leof etlity  rat f:tolt relc-yasbsajae   o   ifro egh   fpiay   tbedu iatiad; for
manlvl,jt.     -    -         -1'd-.                    O   t 1 1                         counrie  wit  unInrl rI     - c        nren   a   nndSf   eon
year sationry conlati  h is  aced-im    eowe   tcinn    ocein                        sic   oeppl  aebinc   hv  the hf-irta  sho l .     ege.t
Per en                                                                                   b-  rdco   ouatnrrsuaekl  ae   11hrae)o   povides-I g Ise. cocauona,  or1 neb ch   treon   imrotoefo1oi
fnl, area.          I,11   I'   h.   .-..-I  dci.j                                    usuolyg ..112.. tri-o  peur  n   ge; corepodec  coure  are. geer lipo
Peean. Am.agiutdural l-en 1-1oputd a..t above            P .. tur agricultural  land.ec-ude.. --
anly.      hlcaniono  erroleeOf thncest fiseureary) - ocatioal igettuviny
Paaltlon..    rnthO1       I fee(pret), - . tonal P-  tinua  gothe rate  of gtotal mId       prmrpedIeadrIevl   iie  by i-mer  ofnetb-                        pn
penn paulatire fry  951-hi,ighI-O, and  970-7L                                  c        -rbsurnn  laol.d  11d.l.I        Pt.
Prlthan blretb M  ael  frarceot)h  d-uhen-gtuad g1-eth' raes rt urt-                 EDpa- AduTIOtN   c   ue(etn              ieaeaut   aben  odeAste
laiou   fo--5-60,i I960-70, ad  .1970-       t., f.,   ,tt.dOi.t                       A.tdE -0ocn1       no  nnlnutppuoinae   5  er   n   o
poplen-a;i-ebO, 1970  and 197t  etut.ptCig0-00pTIh-...hn
Crude  eath  ate ier tbustnd    - Aeee  denapn  hngdofadyar                       Psegr  asleroon                 tohulstio( -I Pasegs -etens       . tofpl ag
Crossierrder.thon   b.e-veeei.      ma  of:t   daughters e woma  ailS bsan .in                                                       IYiiclnsenhidehilen6.1
her h  Y noral 0epederiv  periodif  dheapaIencee-iit  tt prset  g -spslf t en-         naileeer(rohnsdcrucir-Alnyaofeciasorud
tily  ate; unaly fns-eeraveage  eningSn  hf,197, ad 177.           brod cst bto general. pubicfperthousand  oe po ~ynao; du-tides unI-
Fail  Pe    -1n-cti-Ir. catol.c. (tosnds -  Anua h  nambeci_of accep.tors          c.ne.e..    vr I  ish    ..ru.s  o ...In. peers.. the  reitrto   of radi-ot
obirt-onto.       eIe   ae   upcso  oston              amlyptenngprgrm.                as  So effect; d ta for       - oe -n pecemy  th  e compare hi mItrms
Papilo  Clnongfsestprvodn mrnedese)    .erenae  f  ar.d.outie.aoisedlcesig
wome  of chid-hern,      ge-   5I ol.o  Peae   h   s   it-ono  dvrsn ,Rcies(c qbo-eakdlporuietiv) -hTItreceivers  or rod-s  I-Poc                                      I
11, o      o 2 te   17dYn yeeohargranatod-T    --nsas  Itosfft.11
Pre.rio  f  l  Iu  cuI.odiie. Productio  encud-   seed end.t. feed ad                     lstc deodprstpccac -rig  eerlnes   I   s  ueiIa
tee nee          ,Il enlaed.   ggagta   orduno  of eac -ootrg.ofI based 00Popn   oddaignh   er                                lig   disOnat   ec-niee
nanrol  veag  podce  prrmnaebe;191-5,197,  ndStf  un.               cdmoile. tconine.1idh
eoo 6,an  change  in7 earth.Isnaple   ol              nmlfed   ed,                  amdfre   r  uspoyd  u  noodio    osete,  tdnt,ec
quanni Se   sdtIodpoaei~ d                  bssI   iteheo.Rqir-                        lfttrt    ncrin  catLee ey                 tt cEpareie; hiO, pt 197f so
newts2! Geare  Re~Itan   byYardase  o                                                                                  ofal-ogralnee- ir  ureltiti-109 dta
f-abl   en;itiI   91   t  197I 17 dana.                                         fihn   npcOnIg fttllbr  oc;1 ,17  end.  I9 detal.di
neiupy  ffn  prdy   ltspl Gi fsdhi  defntdaahoo.-R--so  el- Pdliny   ea  and gas                                            d. at percntag   of to lbrfot;  9f
quire1nt                60or al   .cnra.dcbihdb  lO    rvd  for7minImum                   197  end. 1979 date.,1-
allowanceIt vi IIaeao  ttlpra    a   s   o  20.ra..ofanial-ndAarIcirtl_   ate  rcet      ntl   nt  adfml-arIiaian
cu.laiO p 1onni     9        197 sar --1  Iram   shul  he th Pnea  pronel.d mofatd-y.    aciiyroe   r  cos                lte pa totl,  teo. sod female laor fOrcea
7r0aelwrE Ithseo     .5gaao   oa   roenad2   rn   f                           pecnee   ftnl   ge  o   eaepplto  o   lngsepcter
F-ilrPI  Iron avfnaln and":Y pule   in   . gram   pot day; 19t6-R51970,and 1977.dt.     Eooi  eednyhr'-Rtot   ouaioudr1  o   Sedse
Chl  (aes.-). otait           -1t (prth-.a. d,) - Annual death  pe  chiptns end'o nothe  otafleby- frdb
irlee data derived icca life tablee; 1911. 1970 and 1907 data.     Incoen rgvvgnIfL'td                            It
L.if                       ipar  -Avrgen.hn  iper  of  pjlife nenaisiug                      ci hdonanholds..
Iayooff hnl= -nteiong    huad       uca   etso   n ante) under one yeerd   Intcc  ScofTJtOP
acraoonntoie Aeter (rerven  ofpoultio) h -. tonal, curban, ad-i. rua   t.           Abln  p         d..i incom  level Is-- tha  Inom  level -belo  ohiob a mimt
oserupl  (Scun   reelatoe taun   nrae  hut tSroaio-ed                               i -ord be.iil   I
eae Iscdato    icn    Pv.rdbrhoe,srne   n  snlr    el)                             EtmedImPathve...rn  TeVeeel(1  tar-t fucie  b-duba   adpne
prneeage  v  thirrnaeccoecoultine.lnauranseapahictuaf  cltiv   pvernoIncmelevl  e  on--brd  i  vergetenonft
1dr  - v ooldaec pe-d   ai.  di, Cprootionaled7,: pat..  I_oday Scfon hc.int ten  ruca,P               - Perhno            . porl tti)uh - and rual  shy. are  'absolte    n
horsacto  ncc  lsoa O 1d.nretc    dculco                        P_.-Icradlly nrb....Oe...aud 
dmosI a   ered   ae!o,heceseIbePcuaioa.d   -d Eacrana                 d dus                                          ncot nn-  and-p  tona  lae  ii
pos    cicue  t   ola Colonaddtispoal  nu    reihutrenet                                                  tooityapi  anddOProjectIon          teai=en
i..t..d of -,.Y~~~~~~~~~)  Id.                                                                           :f I":             illl p.b-~~Ornbas199
ofbumntntrlaehweshsesne   Oyacc-vrmssia otrcheecme of..                                                                                  O       ~    . ...d..
pnt privIes evds teller losesllanivns.'!  AtIOd.o. p



- 26 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
NICARAGUA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.453,952
GNP Per Capita:  (1979) US$660
Amount                 Average Annual Increase (%)                    Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$                (at constant 1980 prices)                           (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 P/              lQ61-7nl    1970-75    1975-80                  TQA5           1970          1975          1980 P/
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product  a/                      2133.9                 4.4            5.9       -6.2
Agriculture                                    490.4                 2.7            5.8       -2.7                  25.1         . 24.9         22.5          23.0
Industry                                       653.3                 7.1            7.3       -4.2                  23.7          25.7          29.4          30.6
Services                                       990.2                 3.7            5.1       -8.1                  51.2          49.3          48.1          46.4
Consumption                                     2161.4                  3.4           5.9       -2.8                   82.0          83.9          87.5         101.3
Gross investment                                  431.0                 1,3           9.3      -13.4                   20.9          18.6          21.4          20.2
Exports of goods and NFS                          507.7                 3.2           7.8       -9.3                   30.3          26.7          28.0          23.8
Imports of goods and NFS                          966.2               -0.1           10.2       -4.7                   33.3          29.2          36.9          45.3
Gross national savings                             17.3                 3.0          -2.1      -13.0                   16.8          13.7           9.8           0.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(at current prices)
1970          1975       1980  P/
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports
Primary                                                             72.6          69.5        77.5
M.anufactures                                                       27.4          30.5        22.4
Merchandise imports
Food                                                                  5.1           4.0        10.3
Other consumer goods                                                 23.9          19.6        18.7
Fuel                                                                  5.7          14.1       19.6
Intermediate                                                        34.7           33.8       39.5
Capiral                                                              In R          7R.5       11 A
1976          1977          1978          1979          1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                      46.4          52.9          54.2          74.2         100
Exchange rate , average                                            7.0           7.0           7.0           9.1          10.0
Export price index                                                45.2          55.9          52.6          73.4         100
Import price index                                                44.6          46.9          49.6          74.7         100
Terms of trade index                                             101.3         119.2         106.0          98.2         100
As x GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975       1980  P /
PUBLIC FINANCE  b/
Current revenue                                                        10.3          11.7       18.8
Current expenditure                                                     8.8           9.7       22.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                            +1.5          + 2.0       -3.6
Capital expenditure                                                     3.0           8.0         7.9
Foreign financing                                                       1.1           3.3        5.1
1965-70         1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (% yearly)                                                      4.4              5.9          -6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (X yearly)                                           1.4              2.5          -9.0
Energy consumption growth rate (X yearly)                                      16.1              9.6          12.3
ICOR                                                                            4.82             3.84         -3.58
Marginal savings rate                                                            0.24            0.04          0.34
Import elasticity                                                              -0.02             1.73          0.76
a/ Market Prices                                                                                                                                      April 10. 1981
I/ Central Government
.L' Preliminary



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
NICARAGUA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current pres)
Population:  2,453.952
GNP Per Capita: (1979) US$660
Actual                                                             Projected
1975      1976       1977      1978         1979        1980 P/         1981       1982         1983       1984        1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and NFS                                   446.0      609.7     713.8      726.9       677.7       507.7           668.4      823.1       1032.4      1264.6     1516.4
Goods F.0.B.                                             375.2     541.9      636.8     646.0        616.6       449.2           579.8      708.6        893.9      1100.2     1324.1
toc-factor nervices                                       70.8      67.8       82.0       80.9        61.1        58.5            88.6       114.5       138.4       164.4      192.1
Impoern of figd. and NFS                                   587.5     588.4      838.3     690.5        424.8       966.2           888.2     1063.5       1250.5      1457.7     1671.2
Goods C.I.F.                                             516.9     532.1      761.9      593.9       360.2       885.0           808.0      959.8       1120.1      1296.3     1488.7
Non-fact-or nrvice-                                       70.6      56.3       76.4       96.6        64.6        81.2            80.1      103.7        130.4       161.4      182.5
Net enp-rte of goods and NFS                              -141.5       21.3    -119.5       36.4       252.9    --458.5           -219.8     -240.4       -218.1      -193.1     -154.9
Net factor iocone                                          -59.0     -70.1      -73.0      -98.7      -110.2       -78.2          -134.1     -133.3       -160.1      -173.3     -182.1
Net transfern                                               16.7       10.2      11.2        9.4        91.6       123.0            35.0       28.0         31.1        34.4       38.0
Ctrret accoant balance                                    -183.8     -38.6    -181.3      -52.9        234.3      _413.7          -318.9     -345.7       -347.2      -332.1     -299.1
Direct pri-ate investment (set)                             11.0       12.9      10.0        7.0         0           0             288.1       352.0       344.1       405.7      458.9
-78.9     -131.0        -88.9      -105.8     -122.0
SiLT 1oans (net)                                           139.7       55.8     205.7      92.5         98.0       270.4           208.2      221.0        255.2       294.9      336.9
Diuhorsennntn                                            160.0      90.8      256.3     142.4        112.4       332.6             -          -            -           -          -
Anorttizatio                                             -20.3     -35.0      -50.6     -49.9        -14.4       -62.2             -          -            -           -          -
Other capital                                                1.4        9.6     -91.0    -270.9       -307.3        50.8           116.7      159.6        137.7        91.2       24.0
Chaoge io net rncervns (- a increane)                       51.7     -39.7       56.6      224.3       -25.0       194.1            -6.0      -34.9        -45.7       -54.0      -61.8
International renerven, greoe  1/                          135.7     158.5      164.8      81.0        148.3        80.8            86.8      121.7        167.4       221.4      283.2
Re-ecveus0 macnthu of inporto  2/                            2.5        2.8       2.1        1.2          3.2        0.9             1.0         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.8
1970     1975      1976     1977      1978     1979
GROSS OSBURSEtMENTS
Official grants                                                                           -       16.7      10.0     11.2      9.4      91.6
Grouc dinburnements of MLT loans                                                        44.5    160.0      90.8    256.3    142.4    112.4
Conoecsional                                                                            23.1      30.1      25.2     37.2      38.0     38.2
xilateral                                                                             18.6      13.7     10.5      14.8     21.8      11.3
IDA                                                                                    -         1.6      5.8       3.1      0.8       0.2
Octher nultloteral                                                                     4.5      10.9      8.9      19.2      15.4      26.9
Non-concess ional                                                                       21.4    129.9      65.6    219.2    104.3       74.2
Offiolal eoport reedits                                                                 2.0      2.2      22.7     78.3      50.4     21.4
1BRD                                                                                   5.9      13.9     13.4      13.9      7.0       7.9
Other  ultilateral                                                                      1.6      6.5       7.4     17.4      12.8     44.9
Private                                                                               11.9    107.4      22.1    109.7      34.1       -
EXTERNAL DEBT
'ebt outtanding and diubrured                                                           155.3    589.4    655.4    864.0    961.4  1,100.7
Official                                                                             110.0    252.6    313.9    447.9    545.3    6087.3
IBRD                                                                                26.6      52.3     63.8      75.2     80.2      84.6
IDA                                                                                  3.0      13.4     19.2      22.3     23.1      23.2
Other                                                                               80.4    186.9    230.9    350.4    442.0    579.5
Private                                                                               45.3    345.8    341.5    416.1    416.1    413.4
Undinburued Debt                                                                         67.0    222.9    305.6    237.8    240.4    303.3
DEBT SERVICE
Pubilc debt nervice paynects                                                             24.1     56.2      76.1    102.3      98.4     55.6
Interest                                                                                7.2     35.9      41.2     51.7      48.4     41.2
Paynents an 2 esporttGNFS                                                                11.6     12.6      12.5     14.2      13.5      8.2
Pay.mentn a     GNP                                                                       3.2      3.7       4.3      5.0       5.1       3.7
Average iotere-t rate on sew loans (5)
Official                                                                                5.5      4.9       6.1      6.9       5.3      6.6
PrIvate                                                                                 8.6      9.7       8.:1)    8.2      10.6
Average maturity of nnv loans (yearu)
Official                                                                               27.8     28.8      18.8     17.6      20.7     22.6
Private                                                                                 7.0      7.1       6.7      6.6       4.7      -
BANC GROUP EXPOSURE
IBBRD WD/total DOD                                                                       17.1      8.7       9.7      8.7       8.3       7.7
IBRD disuhrsements/total gross dibhuruemest.                                             13.2      8.7      14.8      5.4       4.9       7.0
IBRD debt nevrvie/total debt servioe                                                     12.4      9.6       8.1       7.2      7.1      14.4
IDA DOD/total DOE                                                                         1.9      2.2       2.9       2.6      2.4       2.1
IDA dinbsr.eeenso/total gross disburserentn                                               0        3.5       6.4      1.2       0.6      0.2
IDA debt service/total debt service                                                       0        0.2       0.3      0.2       0.1       0.2
An Z of Debt Outstanding
at End of Mont Re-ect
Yenr (1979)
IEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity ecroctore of debt aututandig (Z)
Maturities due within S year                                                                              31.4
Matoritoes due  ithin 10 years                                                                            44.9
Interest structure of debt oatnta-dinf (2)
Icterect dun withis first year                                                                             7.4
Pt/ Prelinicery
1/  After 1980 the net ohange in reserves is aesumed to be added to the groen  reserve level.                                                                           June 3, 1981
2/  Impnrtn include geed and eervien.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
1/
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS   (As of March 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                               US$ Millions
Credit                                                        Amount (Net of Cancellations)
No.      Year         Borrower            Purpose           Total    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty Loans and Three Credits fully Disbursed                115.2    33.6
1244       1976      Government         Education              11.0       -        5.8
1402       1977      ENALUF (now INE)  Power                   22.0       -       10.1
1495       1978      Government         Rural Sanitation        3.0       -        2.4
1496       1978      Empresa Aguadora  Water Supply
de Managua                             10.1       -         2.6
(now INAA)
1785       1980      Government         Agro-Industry
Rehabilitation      20.0       -        5.7
965       1980      Government         Urban Reconstr.                22.0       12.2
1081       1981      Government         Pre-investment Fund             5.0        5.0
Total                                                   181.3 /2 60.6
of which has been repaid                               46.7      0.3
Total now outstanding                                   134.6    60.3
Amounts sold                         5.6
of which has been repaid           5.6                   -        -
Total held by Bank and IDA                              134.6    60.3
Total Undisbursed                                                            43.8
1/   Includes exchange adjustments
2/   Does not include US$3.7 million loan for Managua Water Supply Engineering
Project approved on April 30, 1981.



-29-                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1981)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
---(US$  Millions)---
1968     Textiles Fabricato de         Textile Mill          1.00     1.07    2.07
Nicaragua, S.A.
(FABRITEX)
1976     Nicaragua Sugar               Sugar Mill            6.50        -    6.50
Estates Limited (NSEL)
1976     Posada del Sol                Hotel                0.70      0.20    0.90
Total Gross Committed                                     8.20      1.27    9.47
Less Cancellations, Repayments and Sales                  4.33      1.07      5.40
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          3.87     0.20      4.07
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION  I/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln  1244        Second Education Project:  US$ 11.0 Million of June 15, 1976:
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
About 164 out of the 222 rural primary schools and all secondary
schools included under the project are under construction and
are about 50% complete. Forty other rural schools were tendered,
but no bids were received due to difficult accessibility of the
project sites. The Government has recommended deletion of the
remaining 18 rural schools, which were to be built in an area
to which there is no access at this time. Construction of the
rest of the rural schools is recommended through force account.
In place of the deleted rural schools, the Government has
requested construction of three additional secondary schools
in regions with greatest need. Equipment and furniture have
been tendered, and contracts will be approved by June 1981.
The teacher training and fellowship programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Estimated total project cost overruns are
now down to about 5% (against 10% estimated in the last
quarter). This reflects savings due to participation of the
communities in construction. Disbursement is about 50% of
the loan proceeds. The performance of the project unit has
been satisfactory. The project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Ln. 1402        Ninth Power Project:  US$22.0 Million of April 22. 1977;
Effective Date:  October 27, 1977; Closing Date:  June 3o0  1982.
The project was significantly delayed because of delays in
hiring consultants, difficulties in awarding supplier contracts
and engaging contractors and because of ENALUF's (now INE)
increasingly tight financial situation. These earlier diffi-
culties were partly a consequence of the political disturbances
which ended with a change of Government in July 1979. The cost
of the project, originally appraised at US$32.3 million, is now
estimated to be US$45.7 million. After the civil war, modifica-
tions in the project were agreed with the new Government and
INE. They consisted of a reduction in the Bank share of some
parts of the project (financing for which was assumed by CABEI)
to allow the Bank to finance a portion of the local and foreign
costs of reconstruction of installations damaged during the
war, and finance replenishment of INE's inventory of distribution
equipment and local costs of some original project components.
Since the end of the war, procurement activities under the
project have continued to be slow except that the tariff and
sector organization studies which were to be financed have not
been restarted. Because of reduced sales and increased operational
expenses, largely due to increased fuel cost and hiring of
additional personnel, INE continues to face serious financial
problems. Collection performance which was very poor during
and immediately after the war has improved much more slowly
than expected. Effective January 1981 electricity tariffs were
increased, on average they are now about US$0.108 per kw/h.
This rate is considered satisfactory. Tariff subsidies to the
productive sectors have been substantially eliminated as of
January 1981.
Ln. 1495        Rural Sanitation Project:  US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Following the civil war and in view of the changed responsibili-
ties of the Ministry of Health and INAA, the Government presented
to the Bank a detailed proposal for the modification of the
project scope and the institutional arrangements required for
the Project. Meanwhile, the subprojects already started are
being completed. The proposed amendments for the project have
been put into effect.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Ln. 1496        Managua Water Supply III Project:  US$10.1 Million of
January 30, 1978; Effective Date:  May 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was restructured in October 1979, eliminating some
components which were not of high priority under current circum-
stances, using the resulting savings to finance replacement
of equipment destroyed during the war, and to increase the
financing of local costs and interest during construction.
Although. the executing agency (INAA) has endured a very critical
financial position, the company is now in the process of
recovery. Bank recommendations have been, or are, in the
process of being implemented, and the project is expected to be
completed six months after the original closing date of June 30,
1981 i.e. December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1785        Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project:  Loan US$20.0
Cr.  966        Million, Credit US$ 10.0 Million of January 4, 1980; Effective
Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
One half of the Loan/Credit was allocated to replanting of
expropriated farmland, war damaged private farms and to a
coffee renovation project. Disbursements under the agricul-
tural component were much faster than expected, while utiliza-
tion of funds earmarked for industry was slower. To satisfy
the urgent demand for funds in agriculture, US$7 million of the
US$15 million industrial allocation was reallocated to the
agricultural component.
The balance of the Loan/Credit was allocated for the rehab-
ilitation of industrial enterprises to enable them to regain
prewar levels of employment, output and exports through
restoring current production and the repair or replacement of
fixed installations. All funds under this loan/credit have
been committed.
Cr. 965         Urban Reconstruction Project:  US$ 22.0 Million of January 4,
1980; Effective Date: Januarv 25, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The Municipal Reconstruction Component (US$6.8 million) is
proceeding on schedule; most repair works on streets, public
spaces and utilities have been completed. Major reconstruc-
tion of markets and other municipal buildings are under
construction due in large part to the quality of the technical
teams of the Ministry and Municipalities. The Small Scale
Enterprise Component is now completely disbursed (US$3.2 million),
the FED has made about 3,200 loans including numerous small
enterprise loans handled by the Banco Popular and BND. Progress



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
on the Urban Transport Component (US$ 12.0 million) is also
satisfactory; the bus route paving improvement program is
completed, delivery of buses has started and technical
assistance to the bus company is in place. Tendering for
procurement of buses and maintenance equipment was approved by
the Bank in July and contracts were signed in mid September
1980. Total disbursements are at present near appraisal
estimates. All civil works and procurement are expected to be
completed by the end of June 1981. However, the technical
assistance elements may extend beyond the December 31, 1980
closing date.
Cr. 1081        Preinvestment Fund Project:  US$ 5.0 million of December 18,
.1980; Effective Date: March 18, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Disbursements are expected to start shortly.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
NICARAGUA
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Timetable to prepare project:                7 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                         FED/IBRD
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              July 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:              September 22, 1980
March 17, 1981 (2nd)
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                  May 22, 1981
(f)  Planned Deadline for Effectiveness:          October 10, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Data
None
Section III: Special Bank Conditions
(a)  It would be an additional condition of effectiveness that
subsidiary agreements between the Government and FED, And
FED and participating institutions be signed (para. 57 and 58).
(b)  It has been agreed that the adequacy of the interest rate to
the ultimate beneficiary be reviewed by the Borrower
in consultation with the Bank on an annual basis; the first
review to take place no later than March 31, 1982 (para. 60).
(c)  It has been agreed that FED would not change its statement
of operating policies and appraisal and supervision guide-
lines without prior Bank approval (para. 54).
(d)  It would be a condition of disbursement for each technical
assistance subcomponent, that the Bank has received and
approved respective technical assistance agreements (para. 57)






W ; S ,l     d      E     ;; f ii             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G N4n n nil,ii0
;iSS  -OEYro*T; = C1ffiK- 5-S>s3a<==~~~~~,jrl,ep=g, AN  -;=,  , M 
m    @      =                                              JvA/A->-X?\  TuorXq,rogavogx    S?~~~~W_ N;
::~~ ~~~~~~~~~~N             N   }"   F   :E=sf~ :;, ; 2:'i; .===;=  r:;   ;    
,4mt   <Co
;   J^,  #, . , ; =. >.,,o /agoonTv
[+;                                          J'  g gP ,-//                    x-R S~~~~~NRI 
q              g/,                                   ,,         k   ,,  P4kftrollqio1~Ai5 N
Fa ~      al                                                         S-se i  Pd, dL  N.,,il12
t *  :    ::      RIVAS    ; D:       L  : : f  ^L  N ... lo
1  >  =          SokiJ45a4   >,beCaW     2r,S",,,^gEX, ii,iSGt... d
tCorstbssh                             t4<4         L a>.igS,i<A<= C.                                          A          1Z
5+e  ,                                     f                                            rr  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAD



