Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Mv Z9Zy -cM4.t
Report No. 6986-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1988
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Th  document has a restricted dsrbution an may be used by recpienSt only in the perfomance of
eiwr offidal duties. Its contens may no oeDrwise be discosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY ZO'UIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00      - Y 3.7
Y 1.00       ^  US$0.27
(As of December, 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)     - 2.47 acres
1 p               - 0.067 ha
1 toui ft)           1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
1 kg               - 2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
BAP           - Bureau of Aquatic Products
BOF           - Bureau of Finance
BWR           - Bureau of Water Resources
CEROILS       -China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and
Export Corporation
CMIEC         - China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
CPO           - County Project Office
DC            - Development Corporation
FTB           - Foreign Trade Bureau
FTC           - Foreign Trade Corporation
GAIC          - General Administration of Industry and Commerce
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
ILS           - International and Local Shopping
LCB           - Local Competitive Bidding
NAAF          - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husibandry and Fishery
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MOFERT        - Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
MPO           - Municipal Project Office
PCC           - Provincial Coordinating Committee
PPO           - Provincial Project Office
SPC           - State Planning Commission



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
CHUTA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
LoanlCredit and Project SuMMsrv
Borrower              People's Republic of China
-ngfls1arlaa:         Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provincial Governments
hmg:                  Bank Loan:  US$40 million equivalent
IDA Credit: SDR 44 million (US$60 million equivalent)
ZgEa:                aBnk Loan:  Twenty years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's stadadrd variable
interest rate.
IDA Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Ralending Terms       From Government to Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces: 15
years, including five years grace, vith Interest at
4.5%. The provinces would bear the full foreign exchange
risk. End users would pay interest at the Agricultural
Bank of China's prevailing rates for similar loans for
similar purposes, currently ranging between 7.2% and
10.86.
Project Obiectives
and DassrSition:    The main objective of the project would be to increase
and diversify production and incomes of farm families by
assisting Jiangsu and Zhejiang provincial governments to
develop coastal lowlands, mudflats and shoals for culture
fisheries. The project would allow coastal dwellers to
switch to culture fisheries from the over-exploited
offshore fishing industry and to supplement their
earnings with livestock and horticultural activities.
The project would (a) develop mariculture by constructing
or improving about 10,100 ha of ponds for shrimp, eels
and laver (edible seaweed); (b) support animal husbandry
by providing breeding stock and on-farm improvements; (c)
promote agriculture by establishing fruit and nut
produetion bases; and (d) further the adoption of
technological advances by constructing pilot plants to
test new approaches in various fields of production and
processing. The project would Include support
facilities, such as feed sills, cold stores, processing
plants and brainlng centers, and local and overseas
training for technical and managerial staff and farmers.
eefits and Risks:  At full development, annual incremental production would
include 14,900 t of shrik-, 4,800 t of eels, 410 t of
dried laver, 130,000 minks, 1 million each of goats and
rabbits, 460,000 ducks and 1,2)0 t of fish, 43,000 t of
fruit and 18,200 t of nuts. Annual incremental output
from the project investment would be about Y550 zillion
(US$ 148 million). Earnings from project activities
would increase the per capita incomes of some 115,000
families by 15-35 percent. No major risks are
anticipated.
This document has a sicted distibution and may be usod by rcipients only in the performance
of thdr oMcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wodd lank authoritlon.



v ii 
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
A.  Production and Processing  .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,33
B. Marketing for Export . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
C.    Markets  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .37
D.  Prices .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . 40
E. Farm Budgets .. . ....  .  ..... .          .41
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
A.  Production and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
B.  Employment and Incones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
C.  Economic and Financial Analyses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
D. Risks  . . . . . . . . . . ..                              . . 43
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION  . . . . ..  . . . . . . . .45
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Summary of Main Project Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
3.2 Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
3.3 Procurement Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              24
5.1 Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
6.1 Summary of Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses . . . . . .44
1. Background Data
Project Sites
Climate
2. Agriculture Technology Development Ccmponent
3. Cost Data
Cost Summaries
Expenditure Schedule
Expected Price Increases
Disbursement Schedule
Detailed Cost Estimates
4. List of Major Inputs
5. Training and Technical Assistance
6. Production Techniques
7. Financial and Economic Analyses
Farm-gate Prices for Major Products and Inputs
Selected Conversion Factors
Typical Farm Budgets
8. Operating Guidelines for Ji&ngsu and Zhejiang Development Corporations
9. Key Monitoring Indicators
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF CHARTS
1. Organization Chart for Jiangsu Province
2. Organization Chart for Zhejiang Province
3. Flow of Funds
LIST OF FIGURES                                       LIST OF rAPS
1. Implementation Schedule         IBRD 20260 Project Locations in Jiangsu
IBRD 20261 Project Locations in Zhejiang



CHIN
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  BACKGROUND. . . . .                         . .. . .  . . . . .   . 1
A.    Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
B.  The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
C.  The Fisheries Subsector  . . . . . . . . .         .    ..  . . . 2
D.  Coastal Land Development ... ... .    . 2
E.  Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending . . . . . . . . .          3
F.  Project Formulation and Rationale  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
II. IHE PROJECT AREAS  ......  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .   . 5
A. Location ....... .. .. ..                                        5
B. Climate ..... . .. . . ..                                        5
C. Coastal Topography and Soils ....   .      . .5
D.  Infrastructure ......  .  ..  .  .   .    . .7
E.  Status of Mariculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
F. Training, Research and Extension ....  .    .   .                8
III. THE PROJECT ..... .... 9
A.  Project Objectives and Relation to Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . 9
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
C. Project Features in Jiangsu         .     .    .     ...... . 11
D. Project Features in Zhejiang .       .     .............. . 18
E.  Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
F.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
G. Cost Estimates . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
H.    Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .22
I.    Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .23
J.    Disbursements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
K.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
L.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
A. Project Organization . .         . . . . . . . . . .  .       . 27
B.  Provincial Coordinating Committees and Project Offices . . . . .27
C.  Development Corporations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
D.  Management of Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
E.  Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
F. Execution of Project Works .      .................. . 31
G.  Project Launch Workshop  .....  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .  .   . 31
H. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . .32
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to China in
February 1987 and an appraisal mission in June 1987. Members of the
preappraisal mission were N. Hill, J. Doolette, B. Ophuis, E. Zuckerman
(Bank/IDA), L.C. Chen, J. Cowley and D. Messersmith (Consultants). The
appraisal mission comprised N. Hill (IBRD/IDA), L.C. Chen, J. Clemmensen,
J. Cowley, N. Glem-Hansen, and S. van Eys (Consultants). E. Chobanian and
H. Eisa partiepated in report writing.



ii X
Estimated costs:                          Local        Foreign        T-otal
- - - - - (US$.million) - - - - -
Jiangsu
Nariculture                       58.2          40.5          98.7
Agriculture                        6.3           5.8          12.1
Animal Husbandry                   8.3          15.4          23.7
Agriculture Technology            4.0            4.9           8.2
Base Cost                      76.8           66.6         143.4
PhysiLal Contingencies          6.9            5.6          12.5
Price Contginencies             1.5            1.3           2.8
Total                          85.2           73.5         158.7
Zhejiang
Nariculture                       27.2          26.1          53.3
Physical Contingencies          1.9            1.8           3.7
Price Contingencies             0.7            0.6           1.3
Total                          29.8           28.5          58.3
Grand Total                             115.0         102.0         217.0
Financing Plan:
Jiangsu  Bank                                            27.6          27.6
IDA                                             41.4          41.4
Jiangsu Provincial Government                   -&,I ,.5
85.2          73.5         158.7
Zhejiang
Bank                                            12.4          12.4
IDA                               2.5           16.1          18.6
Zhejiang Provincial Government  27.3             _27.3
29.8          28.5          58.3
,Total                          115.0          12.0          2X17.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDAJF        1982       1990 F219                         122k
Annual            19.0       19.5        28.0       24.5        9.0
Cumulative        19.0       38.5        66.5       91.0      100.0
Economic Rate of Return:    32%
Maps:  IBRD 20260 and 20261



COASTAL LANDS DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introutio
1.1      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing development of coastal lands in Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces.
The main component of the proposed project would be development of
mariculture--shrimp, eel and laver (an edible seaweed)--on coastal
lowlands, mudflats and shoals and provision of support facilities, such as
feed mills, cold stores, and technical service centers. The project would
also include in Jiangsu Province small components for expansion of
livestock and horticultural production in the coastal region,
agroprocessing plants, and adoption of technological innovations in
agriculture, mariculture and livestock. The project covers three
municipalities, administratively responsible for 17 counties, in Jiangsu
and 18 counties in Zhejiang. The initial proposal, presentedt by the State
Planning Commission (SPC) in August 1986, was confined to Jiangsu
Province. The project scope was subsequently expanded to include
developing coastal lands for mariculture in Zhajiang Province. The
project areas were visited by a Preappraisal Mission in March 19F7 and the
project was appraised in June 1987.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2      Agriculture in China provides sustenance to over one billion
people and is an important source of income for some 190 million farm
families and accounts for about 35% of the country's GDP. Only about 137
million ha of China's land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming
systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic
fertilizers, and water. Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated.
Foodgrains occupy about 70% of the cropland and account for about
one-third of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food
production allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the
world's arable land.
1.3      Major reforms in farm policies since 1979, especially a shift
from collective to household farming and increases in farm prices, have
led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural production. This
shift has given farmers more flexibility in determining what crops to
grow, how wuch to produce, and where to market their output. Results have
been dramatic: production increased by about 10% per year over the period
1980-85 in comparison with an average of 3% per year in the preceding 23
years. Grain output reached a record 407 million t in 1984, 34% greater
than in 1978, despite a reduction in the area sown with grains. In 1985,
the Government began a new phase of reform, replacing compulsory
procurement quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices,
and greatly enlarging the role of the market. These measures contributed
to a decline in grain and cotton area and output as farmers increasingly
shifted production into livestock, aquaculture and industrial crops. As



- 2 -
the current reforms are extended, the challenge to China's agriculture
will be to maintain an adequate growth rate while continuing to provide
both basic grain security and diversified consumption patterns. In terms
of the average Chinese diet, Chinese planners project a rapid increase in
the demand for fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, fish and dairy products
with a corresponding decrease in the share of direct grain consumption.
C. The Fisheries Subsector
1.4      China's fisheries subsector, including culture and capture
production from marine and freshwater sources, accounts for about 1.5% of
the gross value of agricultural output (GVAO). Total fisheries production
increased from 5.3 million t in 1983 to 8.0 million t in 1986, an increase
of 50%. The output of capture fisheries has reached a plateau of about
3.5 million t per year and is expected to remain at this level through the
year 2000, since both coastal and inland waters are being fully
exploited. Government policy since the early 1980s has aimed toward
shifting the production structure from capture to culture fisheries to
achieve growth in output. China has some 5 million ha of freshwater
bodies and 1.3 million ha of coastal waters which are suitable for
aquaculture, of which about 3 million ha (60%) and 293,000 ha (220),
respectively, are at present being used. The existence of extensive
unutilized areas suitable for culture fisheries and the fact that
significant increases in yields may be realized through application of new
technology and management methods led the Government to adopt in the early
1980s an ambitious program to expand annual fisheries production to 11
million t by the year 2000; current production levels confirm that this
target is attainable.
D. Coastal Land Development
1.5      Geographically, Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces are ideally
situated to develop their coastal lands for intensive fish culture: they
have a combined shoreline of more than 3,000 km; both provinces have rich
natural resources of eel fry and brood shrimp; water quality is good; and
considerable local experience has been gained over the last five years in
fishery technology, particularly in shrimp production techniques. Jiangsu
has the unique topographic feature of an expanding coastline, formed from
silt carried by the river flow to the mouth of the Yangtze River, then
picked up and driven north by tidal currents. Local governments have
periodically constructed embankments for the purpose of extending the
cultivable area and affording it flood protection from monsoon storms.
Zhejiang, which has an irregular, mountainous coastline, carries out land
reclamation by erecting dikes to connect adjacent promontories at their
bases. In both provinces, most of the coastal land development schemes
have focussed on expansion of culture fisheries for both marine and
freshwater aquatic products. However, the local governments have faced
financial and technological constraints which resulted in the land being
used for low-yielding extensive cultivation. Ponds are shallow ard
irregularly shaped, water control facilities are crude, and the degrue of
mechanization is low. Production is limited by lack of quality formulated
feed and farmers' access to fry, and output value is diminished by
inadequate freezing and preservation capacity and crude processing
technology.



. 3 -
E. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending
1.6      The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
are (a) to increase the production of food, feed and industrial crops to
meet requirements created by population and income growth, and (b) to
raise incomes and employment opportunities 'n rural areas. Given China's
shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners have
focussed on the need to increase the productivity of existing cropped
areas and to develop efficiently the few remaining areas of unutilized
land. Steps are also being taken to stabilize food grain output at the
1983 level, increase production and quality of animal feed, livestock,
fruit, fish, and industrial crops, and expand agro-processing &.; 'vities
so as to raise the value-added in the farm sector. Improved prc.ucer
incentives include (a) contract systems which permit household-level
management within both collective and state-owned farm sectors; (b)
continued expansion of the market; (c) adjustment of producer prices; and
(d) establishment of private, public and mixed enterprises in rural
agro-processing, transport and commerce. For the fisheries sector, rne
Government's objectives are to increase production for domestic
consumption, provide additional income sources for the rural populationL,
and gain foreign exchange earnings from the export of high-valued aquatic
products such as shrimp, eel and laver /1. The development strategy
emphasizes establishment of fish culture systems on land unsuitable for
crop cultivation--freshwater culture on swamps, marshes and poorly drained
interior land and marine culture on coastal lowlands, shoals and mudflats.
1.7      The Bank's lending to China's agricultural sector has supported
the Government efforts to raise and diversify agricultural production
through more efficient: use of land, water and labor resources and through
improvement of support ax-vices such as credit, research and agricultural
education.  Past lending to .he sector has focussed on land reclamation
and development--North China Plain (Cr. 1261-CHA) and Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation (Ln. 2261-CHA)-- mad strengthening agricultural support
services--Agriculture Lhut-.Won and Research (Cr. 1297-CHA), the Second
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-CHA), three rural credit projects
(Cr. 1462-CHA, Cr. 1642-CHA, and Cr. 1871-CHA) and the Seeds Project (Cr.
1577-CHA). Projects of the specialized product subsector type include the
Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), the Freshwater Fisheries
Project (Cr. 1689-CHA), and the Rubber Development Project (Cr.
1417-CHA/SF 5-CHA).  The area development approach, which generally
targets difficult development problems, combines in a single project
assistance to land development and support services previously the subject
of separate projects. It takes advantage of the close integration of
governmental functions at the local level in China, which facilitates
inter-agency cooperation. The Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Projecc
(Ln. 2479/Cr. 1606-CHA) was the first of this type, followed by Red Soils
Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-CHA), the Xinjiang Area Development
/1 Laver is a seaweed product, widely known by its Japanese name "nori".
It is used as a wrapping for sushi and is a popular soup ingredient in
Oriental cuisine.



- 4 -
Project (Cr. 1764-CHA) and the Gansu Area Development Project
(Cr. 1793-CHA). Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group-financed
projects in the agriculture sector is on schedule. Notable features of
all the projects are the high standard of management at the central,
provincial and county levels and the enthusiastic participation of the
collectives and farmers.
F. Project Formulation and Rationale
1.8      The SPC has proposed the Coastal Lands Development Project for
Bank financing. As part of the Government's efforts toward
decentralization, this project would be implemented by the two provinces
without direct involvement of line ministries at the central level. Both
provinces have primarily focussed on aquaculture activities which
represent the most economically and financially attractive uses of coastal
lowlands and shallow waters, e.g., shrimp, eel and lav%1r production. To
diversify production, Jiangsu has also selected specialized horticultural
and livestock activities which take best advantage of available natural
resources in the coastal regions and, in some cases, are complementary to
mariculture. Moreover, to streamline research, development and commercial
application of innovative technological advances, the project will provide
funding in Jiangsu Province for an agricultural technology development
component. The component consists of eight subprojects for
commercialization of technological developments in production, processing
and utilization of mariculture, mink, field and vegetable crops. The
project would support the Government's overall objectives for the
agricultural sector and the fisheries subsector. It would serve as a
model for future development of similar land areas within the two
provinces and in other provinces bordering the sea. The Bank Group's
primary contribution to the project involves drawing on the experience of
its staff and consultants to improve the technology, design, organization
and implementation of the project.  This includes provision of assistance
during and after project preparation to insure appropriate selection of
sites and technology based on technical, financial and economic
considerations; coordinated planning of aquatic production, animal
husbandry and agro-processing components; assessment of local and export
market potential for the main aquatic products; and access to advanced
technology.



- 5 -
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. L*eati&n
2.1      The proposed project would be carried out in the coastal regions
of Jiangsu and Zhejiang, which are neighboring provinces lying immediately
to the north and south, respectively, of Shanghai. The Jiangsu component
would be located in 17 counties and districts under the jurisdiction of
the coastal municipalities of Lianyungang, Nantong, and Yancheng; the
project area includes 73 townships and 970 villages, with a total
population of 1.4 million. Even though the major emphasis of tha project
would be mariculture (shrimp, eel and laver production), many of the
participating counties would be involved in more than one production
activity. For example, Yancheng would also include animal husbandry and
orchard development and Lianyungang, fruit and nut production. The
Zhejiang component would involve shrimp and eel production and would be
located in 18 counties and four small- to medium-size cities, including an
island county about 65 km offshore. The population in the project areas
totals 2.2 million. Project locations are shown in IBRD Maps 20260 and
20261.
B. Climate
2.2      Located between 30 and 35 degrees north latitude, Jiangsu lies at
the transition point between temperate and subtropical climates. Aver%ge
daily temperatures range from a January low of 2 degrees C. to a high of
29 degrees C. in July and August. Rainfall averages between 1,000 and
1,100 mm per year, with about two-thirds occurring in the May-September
period. The frost-free period ranges from 200 to 240 days per year and
evaporation is between 1,400 to 1,600 mm per annum. Wind speeds are
generally low except during typhoons which affect the areas for about 7-20
days annually; during these periods, winds exceed 17 m/sec.
2.3      Zhejiang, situated between 27 and 31 degrees north latitude, has
a somewhat milder climate than Jiangsu with average daily temperatures
ranging from 5 degrees C. in January to 28 degrees C. in July and August.
Rainfall averages 1,000 to 1,600 mm per year. The frost-free period
ranges from 250 to 310 days per year and evaporation is 1,200 to 1,600 mm
per year.
2.4      Since shrimp culture in seawater would be the main project
activity and since shrimp growth is limited to conditions of 15 to 30
degrees C, seawater temperature is a critical factor in production.
Seawater temperatures in Jiangsu, ranging from 4 to 27 degrees C., allow a
five-month growing period from late May to late October. The growing
period is about two weeks longer in Zhejiang.
C. CoastAl TgoograDhy and Soils
2.5      The coastal area of Jiangsu is profoundly influenced by the
Yellow and Yangtze Rivers. The Yangtze River brings vast quantities of
sediment into the coastal zone and deposition of this sediment has an
ongoing influence on the coastline. £he Yellow Sea, sheltered in the east
and northeast by Korea and Japan, receives the dominant part of its wave



6-
energy from the southeast. Littoral drift of sediment, under the
influence of wave action and tidal currents, is principally northward
along the Jiangsu coast. These processes result in high silt
concentrations in the coastal waters and accretion of as much as 200-300 m
per year in some locations. A thousand-year-old coastal embankment,
built to protect lowlands from flooding during storm tides, is now 50 km
inland from the shore. In the last three decades, new embankments have
been built for flood protection every ten years or so, and land inside has
become a base for production of cotton and grain. The land to be
developed for shrimp production under the project is within tta protection
of existing sea dikes on the most recently reclaimed land. Because of the
character of the landforms, topographic relief is no more than a few
meters. The shoreline slope is very flat; at low tide the water line in
some areas is 10 km offshore. Marine satling directions warn shipping of
hazards from migrating shoals within 80 km of the coast.
2.6      In historic times, the Yellow River invaded the Huai River and
for about 700 years formed an outlet through Jiangsu creating a delta
between Lianyungang and Yancheng. In the mid 18009, the river resumed its
earlier course, leaving the land referred to as the "Old Yellow River Bed"
as one of the distinctive features of the province. This area would be
developed to orchards and vineyards under the proposed project.
2.7      Soils in the Jiangsu coastal areas consist of various fine sands,
silts and clays. Groundwater and soil salinity at the toe of the sea dike
(on the sea side) are about 1  and 2-4%, respectively.  Behind the sea
dike, soil salinity gradually declines and organic content increases as
the land becomes colonized by salt tolerant vegetation. The land to be
developed for shrimp farming, located immediately inside the most recent
sea dikes, is for the most part unused and currently unsuitable for crop
cultivation. In some areas, shallow evaporation ponds for recovering salt
from seawater are in use. The development of shrimp ponds is seen as a
step in a progression of land usAs leading to freshwater aquaculture and
eventually to desalination of the soil and diverse agricultural
activities. Land to be used for laver cultivation is in the intertidal
zone outside the embankments where the only alternative commercial
activity would be harvesting of shellfish. Eel farms are built on
low-value land with suitable water supplies; some sites are on coastal
land adjacent to shrimp or laver cultivation sites and some are inland.
Animal husbandry would be practiced on land of low productivity adjacent
to the coastal zone.
2.8      In Zhejiang, a mountainous province, the coastal region features
a rocky shoreline with numerous islands and small bays. Some areas of low
land in Hangzhou Bay are affected by progressive accretion, but most of
the coastline is neither accreting nor eroding at a significant rate. The
lands which would be reclaimed are tidal flats in coves and between
islands along the rocky coastline. The soil on these tidal flats is soft
marine clay with a very high water content. In some areas, the bearing
strength is less than one ton/sq m. Provincial engineers are experienced
in the special problems involved in excavating this marine clay and
building safe structures on such foundations. Eel culture would generally
be located inland on coastal wasteland and other low-lying land.



-7-
D. Infrastructure
Irrigation and Drainage Works
2.9      The coastal regions of Jiangsu province are equipped with an
extensive network of irrigation, drainage and transportation canals linked
to the Yangtze River. Numerous gate structures control water movements
and the release of drainage water to the sea through the sea dikes. Most
of the proposed shrimp farms lie adjacent to irrigated areas and,
therefore, would have access to supplies of fresh water as well as sea
water.
2.10     Although Zhejiang province is mountainous, water resources in the
valleys and on the small coastal planes are highly developed with
extensive networks of irrigation and transportation canals.
Transportation from sites of shrimp pond development would be via seaports
with easy access to several major cities.
Power and Transport
2.11     Rural electrification in both provinces is extensive.  In
Jiangsu, water pumping in existing projects is powered electrically,
though electricity shortages are common in the province. In the long
range plans for Jiangsu province, top priority--ahead of either
agriculture or transport--is being given to expansion of electricity
supply. The three coastal cities all have new generating stations under
construction which will double or triple their existing capacities.
Lianyungang is expanding an existing coal-fired plant, Nantong is
increasing the capacity of the Tianshengang station, and Yancheng is
installing a new 125 MW unit to supplement the existing 68 NW plant. The
magnitude of the project needs is, relatively speaking, not large, and in
the agricultural season, even cities shed electrical load to permit an
adequate supply for key activities. The Planning and Economic Commission
of Jiangsu has stated that electricity supply for the project will be
guaranteed.
2.12     In Zhejiang, all project sites are accessible to the provincial
power grid.  Little pumping of seawater would be required for shrimp
cultivation, givea the high tidal range. Some pumping of drainage flows
would, however, be required and both electric and diesel power pumps would
be included in the project.
2 13     The improvement of transportation infrastructure is one of the
top three priorities of the Government's strategy for development in
Jiangsu. However, the existing system, while congested, will not be a
limiting factor in the success of the project. All project sites are
accessible by road. Generally, roads along the sea dikes have become
principal regional access routes. Heavy goods are carried mainly by
barges on the canals. In Zhejiang, the coastal areas are served by an
adequate road network. A considerable amount of highway construction,
including tunnelling to bypass some of the steepest mountain passes, is
under way along the access routes to the project areas. The population
density and character of the terrain suggest that congested road
conditions can be expected for many years. However, an alternative



. 8 -
exists in the form of sea transport which is used to carry goods to and
from other regions and also locally, for example, within a construction
site. The project areas utilize sea, rail or road routes to major cities,
and hence to the export markets abroad. Lianyungang in Jiangsu and Ningbo
and Hangzhou in Zhejiang have regularly scheduled air service to Shanghai,
an international airport.
E. Status of Mariculture
2.14     Jiangsu's fisheries output in 1986 of 805,000 tons ranked fifth
among Chiua's provinces. This output was composed mostly of freshwater
fisheries (67%) and capture sea fishing (30%). Nariculture (cultivation
of marine species) amounted to only 3% of output. Jiangsu has only one
shrimp hatchery, in Lianyungang, but its capacity of tour billion seeds
per year is adequate to supply project needs. P:ovincial production of
eel fry, which exreds 10 t per year, is the greatest in China.
Zhejiang's fisheries output in 1986 was 1.2 million t. Its capture sea
production of 850,000 t, mostly from the fertile Zhoushan Archipelago,
placed it first in China. However, capture fishing faces problems of
depletion and unreliable yields. Therefore, both project provinces are
developing higher-yielding mariculture along their newly reclaimed coastal
land and on intertidal mudflats.
F. Training. Research and Extension
2.15     Both provinces have well-established institutional structures for
research, extension and training, some of which will be strengthened under
the project to cope with the expanded production facilities. Foremost
among the provincial aquaculture training centers in Jiangsu is the
Lianyungang Aquaculture School, renowned nationally for its three-year
secondary-level technical school which produces some 200 graduates each
year. Two facilities--the Nanjing Agricultural Institute and the Suzhou
Silk Institute--offer four-y'ear univerAity level aquaculture training and
have some 150-200 graduates annually. In addition, the Nanjing
Aquaculture Staff Academy offers six-month and one-year continuing
education programs. The Zhejiang Fishery College, with branches in Ningbo,
Xiaoshan and Zhoushan, is the main higher-level education facility in
Zhejiang province.  The Zhejiang Marine Fishery Research Institute in
Zhoushan, the Niw;bo Municipal Fishery Research Institute, and the
Zhejiang Fishery College have ongoing research programs in shrimp feed
formulation and will be contracted under the proposed project to develop
feed formulations for specific areas.



III. THE PROJECT
A.  Prolect Objectives and Relation to Sector
3.1     The main objective of the proposed project would be to ass:.st the
Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provincial Governments to develop coastal lowlands,
mudflats and shoals for culture fisheries. The project would allow
coastal dwellers to switch from the already over-exploited offshore
fishing industry to mariculture and to supplement their earnings with
livestock and specialized agricultural activities. This objective is in
line with the Central Government's objective to expand fisheries
production and increase rural incomes, mainly through the development of
culture fisheries on agriculturally unproductive land. The development of
shrimp ponds in the Jiangsu coastal areas is expected to be a step in a
progression of land uses leading later to freshwater aquaculture and
eventually to desalination of the soil and diversification of agricultural
activities as the coastline builds up and present sites become further
inland.
B. Prolect Descrigtion
3.2     The proposed project would develop coastal land in Jiangsu and
Zhejiang provinces, mainly for cultivation of shrimp, eel and laver.  In
addition to the core mariculture activities, it would include components
for animal husbandry and horticulture, each with associated
agro-processing facilities (Table 3.1), and a component for adoption of
newly developed technological advances aimed at providing solutions to
existing production problems in the project areas and elsewhere in China.
3.3     In Jiangsu, t i proposed project would be carried out in 17
counties under the administrative jurisdiction of three coastal cities:
Lianyungang, Nantong and Yancheng. To diversify production and provide
additional income to farm families, Jiangsu has selected specialized
agricultural and livestock production for development as sideline
activities. These include production of fruits adapted to the coastal
climate and suitable for growing on the adjacent hilly terrain, small
ruminants to take advantage of the abundance of wild grasses growing near
the sea, ducks and fish to maximize utilization of pond areas, and mink to
utilize byproducts from meat processing and trash fish from the coastal
fishery industry. The main features of the project are:
(a) Nariculture - construction or improvement of about 8,260 ha
of ponds for shrimp, 33 ha of open ponds and 87,000 sq m of
sheltered ponds for eels, establishment of about 275 ha of
laver fields, and provision of supporting facilities (nine
hatcheries, three technical service centers, 13 feed mills,
14 cold stores and laver processing equipment) and production
materials; site locations are listed in Annex 1, Table 1;
(b) Animal husbandr - provision of breeding stock and on-farm
improvements for development of goat, duck, rabbit and mink
production; construction and equipping of six agro-processing
plants, three feed mills, and one training center;



- 10 -
Table 3.1 - SUMNARY OF MAIN PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Location               Shrimp ponds      Eel ponds   Laver   Sideline
New Improved     Lnc.  Open fields   Activities
------(ha)....   (m2)   (ha)   (ha)
JIANGSU PROVINCE       3,958    4,303   87,000   32.7   273
Lianyungang            1,397    1,560        0    2.0      0
Lianyungang District            200
Yuntai District        227
Ganyu County           370      873                          Hawthorn
Guanyun County         133      487
L. Salt Corp.          667
Donghai County                                  2.0          Grape,Chestnut
Pixian County                                                Gingko
Nantong Municipality   1,048      523   43,500   17.7   273
Qidong County          115      223    9,000           107
Rudong County          733            20,000   4.0    100
Haimen County           67             2,000    2.0    67
Nantong County                         2,500    5.0
Haian County                          10,000    6.7
Nantong Salt Corp.     133      300
Yancheng Municipality  1,514    2,220  43,500   13.0       0
Xiangshui County       167      633                          Rabbit,Goat
Binhai County          400      267   11,500                 Apple,Peach,Pear
Rabbit,Goat
Sheyang County         400      400    6,000    1.7          Rabbit,Goat,Duck
Dafeng County          247      720   12,000                 Rabbit,Goat
Dongtai County         300      200    7,000    3.3          Rabbit,Goat,Mink
Yancheng District                      7,000    8.0          Rabbit,Goat
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE      1,382        0  150,000    118      0
Damutu                   611
Kaomen                   200
Newly Enc. Tidelands     571
Wumen (Yuhuan Cty)    188
Shepan                262
Dingshan              122
Eel sites                              150,000    118
TOTAL BOTH PROVINCES   5,341   4,303  237,000    151   273



v 11 -
(c)  Agriclitu   - establishment of fruit and nut production bases
on about 7,600 ha; provision of planting material for
upgrading or intercropping on 12,100 ha; construction and
equipping of two agro-processing plants and three cold
stores; and
(d) Agriculture Technology Development - establishment of three
feed mills, four processing plants for rapeseed, sesbania,
asparagus and barley malt, a facility to produce serology
test kits, and 18,000 ha of field and vegetable crops.
3.4     In Zhejiang, the proposed project would include shrimp and eel
production in areas administered by a number of local governments, but
under the umbrella of a provincial bureau. Five sites would be developed
for shrimp and 18 for eel. The main features of the project in Zhejiang
province are:
Mariculture - construction of about 1,380 ha of ponds for
shrimp and 118 ha of open ponds and 150,000 sq m of sheltered
ponds for eels; provision of supporting facilities (three
hatcheries, five cold stores, seven feed mills, two training
centers, and processing facilities for eel), vehicles and
construction equipment.
3.5     In addition, the project would include for both provinces vehicles
and equipment and local and overseas training and study tours.
C. Project Features in Jiangsu
Maricul=ur
3.6     Shrtm:  The proposed project would involve construction of about
3,960 ha of new ponds and improvement of about 4,300 ha of existing ponds
and would include water supply and drainage systems, power supplies,
access roads, farm buildings and offices. Criteria for site selection
were: 1) location within an existing sea dike (for flood protection), 2)
topography suitable for economical construction, 3) minimal requirements
for additional roads and power connections, 4) ability of the local
government to contribute to the proposed investment, and 5) willingness of
local farmers to participate in the project. Recent experience in the
province has shown that shrimp ponds with e water surface area of 2.4 to
2.7 ha, a water depth of about 2 m, and flushing rates to allow daily
replacement of about 10 percent of water volume are conditions for
efficient management and improved yields. Water temperature is also
critical as growth occurs only between 15 and 30 degrees C, and depth has
been recognized as a very important factor in stabilizing water
temperature. Ponds built to the above standards have realized higher
yields due to better water quality and an extended growing period in the
autumn without the growth cessation and mortality associated with ahigh
summer temperatures.  Existing ponds, typically about 1 m deep and up to
25 ha in *irea, would be improved by reducing the size, increasing the
depth and upgrading water supply facilities to facilitate better pond
management and control of water quality and temperature.



- 12 -
3.7    Ponds would be manually excavated, with earth placed around the
perimeter to form dikes. Dike sideslopes would be generally 2.5-3.0
horizontal to 1 vertical.  Freeboard of about 0.7 to 1.0 m above the
nominal full water level would be provided. Dike stability would be
enhanced in many designs by providing a ledge about 4 m wide on the inside
of the dike at a height of about 1 m above the floor of the pond. Surface
protection against water erosion is not generally necessary, but the
project would make provision for stone armour protection at problem areas.
3.8    For new sites, the project would include pumping stations, main
and branch canals providing direct supply to each pond, inlet and outlet
gates, and complementary drainage systems. For sites to be improved, it
would include additional pumping capacity, upgraded inlet and outlet gates
and culverts, and in some cases, new sea dike gates and sea canals.
Control gates in the sea dikes would adjust sea water inflow at high tide
and outflow at low tide. Since the slope of the shore is very flat, some
sites would require excavation of a sea canal to convey water across the
tidal flats toward the sea gates. In Nantong and Yancheng, sea water
would flow through the sea gates into a forebay and then be pumped into
canals for gravity distribution to ponds. The forebay would act as a
reservoir for water to be used during low tide hours and also permit a
degree of desilting. Commonly, the forebays must be dredged every few
years. In Lianyungang, water would be lifted into the project canals at
pumping stations situated in the sea dikes. Drainage to the sea at low
tide would be achieved by gravity flow. Drainage water would not be
allowed to mix with inflowing water. Some project sites would also
provide for freshwater from adjacent irrigation systems to adjust the
salinity of the pond water (salinity of about 20% is considered optimum)
or to insure continuity of supply on occasions when pumping is
interrupted.
3.9    About 280 km of electrical transmission lines and 63 substations
would be provided to connect with the rural electrificat'on system already
in place in the project areas. About 140 km of simple roads would be
constructed to connect the farms to existing county and provincial road
systems. These would generally be 1 - 2 km long and 4 m wide with a
gravel surface. About 53,000 sq m of dormitories, offices and workshops
would be constructed on the farms.
3.10    Five new feed mills, each with a capacity of 1,000-3,000 t/year,
would be established and seven existing mills would be renovated. The
feed mills would be equipped with separate units for grinding, mixing,
pelleting and crumbling, and the pellet mill would be installed with a
steam conditioner and a mixer for adding fat, oil or other binders to
produce a durable pellet. Adequate storage would be provided at each mill
for ingredients to be procured in the off-production season and for
stocking production early in the season to meet higher demands later. At
full development, the total feed requirement for about 8,260 ha of new and
rehabilitated ponds is estimated to be 67,000 t per season, based on a
shrimp yield of 1,950 kg/ha and a feed conversion factor of 4.15. Feed
requirements would be met by the new mills (12,000 t), mills to be
improved under the project (13,000 t) and existing mills in the project
area in satisfactory condition (20,000 t), with the remaining 22,000 t to
be made up by additional investment or to be eliminated by improvements in
the feed conversion factor. Because the shrimp growing season in



- 13 -
Jiangsu is from May through August, only 125 days would be needed for
shrimp feed production; the mills would produce animal or fish feed during
the rest of the year.
3.11    Feed formulation is a major constraint to increased shrimp
yields. The present practice is to feed pellets, produced by on-farm
mills from sun-dried trash fish, shrimp heads, oilseed cake and grain,
supplemented with loose raw or dried fish and molluscs. With the project,
the municipalities would contract with local research institutes to
provide feed formulations taking into account availability of local
materials and eonditions.
3.12    An additional constraint to efficient production of quality Shrimp
in China is inadequate refrigeration after harvesting. The harvested
product is transported, generally with insufficient or no ice, to cold
storage facilities for processing and a 6-14 hour freezing process. The
project would address this shortcoming by providing about 14 cold stores
with block ice plants at locations in the project area where existing
facilities are inadequate. Total capacity would be 5,300 t, ranging from
100 to 3000 t. Modern technology, including contact freezing, would be
introduced to raise product quality and energy efficiency.
3.13    The project would provide for construction and equipping of shrimp
culture training, research and extension centers at Lianyungang, Nantong
and Yancheng. The Lianyungang Center would expand existing facilities at
the Municipal Aquaculture Company's Da Ban Chao Aquaculture Farm;
construction under the project would include 2,600 sq m of buildings, a
hatchery and outdoor experimental ponds. In addition, office and
laboratory equipment would be provided. The Center will make use of
personnel of the Lianyungang Municipal Fishery Research Institute and the
Lianyungang Fishery School to conduct training, technical services and
research in shrimp culture. Special courses will be held for training the
technical staff of project shrimp farms. The Nantong Technical Extension
and Service Center would be established as an additional facility at the
existing Nantong Municipal Fishery Sciences and Technclogy Research
Institute to conduct training and research in laver, eel and shrimp
culture. In Yancheng, the project would provide for construction and
equipping of a municipal-level technical service center at the Xiangshui
County Development Company.
3.14    gkI:   The proposed project would take advantage of the local
supply of elvers (young eel)--Jiangsu has the largest elver supply in
China with annual catches of 10 t--and deep-well warm water sources to
develop 33 ha of open eel ponds and 87,000 sq m of enclosed ponds at 23
sites. About 10 ha of the open ponds would be based on using power plant
cooling water for heated water. Enclosed eel ponds would be used for
nurseries and overwintering in conjunction with open ponds used for
grow-out during warm weather. Enclosed ponds would be constructed as
clusters of reinforced concrete tanks which support superstructures
comprising a light metal framework covered by polyethylene film. Though
the main heat sources would be warm well water and solar energy,
supplementary coal-fired water heating systems would be installed. Since
continuous operation of water pumps and aerators is critically important
in intensive eel culture, standby generators would be provided. Regional
demand for eel feed is currently met by a combination of a small industry



- 14 -
in Shanghai and imports from Japan. The project would provide one 2000-t
capacity feed mill in Nantong. Technical service centers catering to
shrimp production would also be used for eel.
3.15    Laygr:  The proposed project would establish about 275 ha of laver
fields outside the sea dikes in Nantong where sea conditions and tidal
currents are favorable. The production cycle for laver includes seeding
on nets suspended in indoor nursery tanks and grow out on nets mounted
onto bamboo rafts (10-20/raft) anchored in shallow waters in the lower
part of the intertidal mudflat. The project would provide buildings and
tanks for the indoor nursery stage of growth, rafts, nets, poles and
pilings for outdoor growing racks, and automatic drying and packaging
equipment to produce a quality finished product.
Animal Husbandry
3.16    In Yancheng, the project would support the production of goats,
minks, rabbits, ducks and fish, mainly as sideline activities for
households already engaged in agriculture. These activities would utilize
underemployed family labor, crop residues, and naturally occurring
grasses. The project would provide initial breeding stock, on-farm
infrastructure, and veterinary facilities. In addition, it would provide
for construction and equipping of a Municipal Education Center in
Yancheng.
3.17    Goats: Goat production, using the local white breed derived from
the Guizhou white, would be based on availability of some 82,000 ha of
grassland with a wide range of coarse and fibrous plants better utilized
by goats than other ruminants. The project would provide improved
breeding stock (60,000 females and 1,500 males), laboratory and training
equipment and buildings for 35 Artificial Insemination (AI) stations to be
associated with the township livestock/veterinary stations (one for every
two participating townships). The typical Al station would have 80 sq m
of laboratories, 110 sq m of goat pens and 25 sq m of dormitories and
offices. In addition, the project would provide 214,000 sq m of on-farm
goat pens and minor equipment (walking tractors and straw shredding
machines) for each participating township. The goats, grown mainly for
skins, would also provide the fresh meat required by the mink and
accelerate soil rehabilitation of the natural grasslands which would in
future be converted to crop land.
3.18   Mlnk: The project would promote the expansion of mink production
as a sideline activity for farm households by providing improved breeding
stock and upgrading facilities at four existing breeding farms under the
Mink Development Corporation. Some 10,000 disease-free animals (domestic
and foreign) would be purchased for basic breeding stock. The centrally
located breeding farms would receive laboratory and veterinary equipment,
sheds, warehouses and dormitories, and cages. A mobile veterinary station
would be equipped to support high quality production by participating
households. Since all households would be located within a 10-20 km
radius, centralized facilities can readily provide feed, extension, and
veterinary services. The main rationale for including this component in
the project is the availability of suitable feed (trash fish, goat and
rabbit offal) and an existing industry of fairly high standard.



- 15 -
3.19    Rabbits:  Rabbit production has been included in the project
because it offers quick returns on investments, utilizes the abundant
grasses in the coastal region, and does not require specialized labor.
Two existing livestock farms would be modified to include provisions for
foundation breeding stock, minor grass land improvement, and additional
equipment. In addition, the project would provide on-farm works including
pens, hutches and upgrading of forage land. Some 52 townships, each with
about 160 households, would participate in the project. Each township
veterinary station would receive laboratory and veterinary equipment to
support household production facilities.
3.20    Ducks/Fish:  The duck/fish component would include establishment
of a hatchery to provide improved breeds of ducks, 267 ha of pond
construction or rehabilitation, and 20,000 sq m of pens. Ponds would be
0.6 ha and stocked for carp polyculture. The ducks (Cherry Hill breed)
would be grown for meat and down; their manure would fertilize the fish
ponds, reducing the requirements for supplemental fish feed. A Technical
Service Station would be constructed and provided with simple laboratory
equipment to provide extension services to the 400 households
participating in the project.
3.21    Agro-LDocessiLg:  The project would provide the following
processing facilities to meet the needs of the animal husbandry component:
coats ^   establishment of a slaughterhouse with an annual capacity of 1
million animals (located in Dafeng);
- expansion and improvement of an existing tannery, presently
producing pigskin leather, to produce 800,000 goat hides
annually (located in Dongtai);
Ducks -   establishment of a slaughter plant with annual capacity of 2
million birds and auxiliary facilities for production of 36 t/yr
high quality down (located in Sheyang);
-   improvement and expansion of a meat canning factory, including
a can making line, to increase production from 10,000 to 15,000
t canned duck meat (located in Yancheng);
- improvement and expansion of an existing down factory to produce
an additional 50,000 pieces of down garments (located in
Yancheng);
Rabbits-  expansion of a fur factory to increase production from 10,000 to
40,000 rabbit fur garments (located in Dafeng);
Other -   establishment (one) and expansion of an existing (one) feed mill
for producing 40,000 t of feed for various livestock (located
respectively in Sheyang and Xiangshui) and establishment of one
feed mill for producing mink feed (Dongtai).



^ 16 -
3.22    The project would support the expansion of several locally
well-proven fruit and nut crops around the Lianyungang area by financing
initial investments in planting material, fertilizer, labor and other
inputs. Both organic and chemical fertilizers would be used for crop
production. The project would provide for procurement of some 1,000 t of
chemical fertilizers required for crop production during the project
implementation period. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
adequate quantities of chemical fertilizer nutrients would be procured and
made available to farmers and that an annual plan for such provision would
be prepared and submitted to the Bank group for review prior to November 1
of each year.
3.23    Hawthorn:  Considered a health food, hawthorn it a northern crop,
particularly tolerant of poor soils. The proposed project would be
located in a hilly area in western Ganyu county; it would include
substituting an improved variety (Big Golden Star) for old ones on 300 ha
of 4-5 year old plantations and selective replanting (filling in the gaps)
on 3,200 ha. Planting density would be about 750 trees/ha where varieties
are substituted and about 65 trees/ha in the replanted area. Altogether
some 30 village-owned plantations would be involved. The project would
provide fertilizer, labor and seedlings. In addition, township service
stations, which provide extension services and marketing information,
would be constructed and equipped for each of the nine participating
townships.
3.24    Gingkg:  The Gingko nut is a Chinese specialty, believed to have
nutritional and medicinal value. The proposed project would be located in
Pixian County in the northern tip of Jiangsu province. About 540 ha of
plantations would be established with short-stalk, low-crown seedlings at
a density of about 1,600 plants/ha. Grain, mainly barley, would be
intercropped on about 8,830 ha using more mature 3-m high seedlings at a
density of about 90 plants/ha. The project would provide chemical
fertilizer, labor, seedlings, and a l,000-t cold storage facility.
3.25    Chestnuts:  The project would establish about 1,300 ha of
chestnuts in western Donghai County. Planting density would be about
1,650 plants/ha; peanuts would be intercropped for the first four years.
At present, chestnut storage is carried out by burying in sand after the
late autumn harvest and reasonable quality can be maintained until about
January. With the l,000-t cold store to be provided under the project,
storage periods would be extended up to March or April. The project would
also provide chemical fertilizers, labor and seedlings.
3.26    Orchards:  A 2,000 ha fruit tree base, comprising 1,200 ha of
apples, 600 ha of peaches, and 200 ha of pears would be planted in Binhai
County. Fruit varieties have been selected on the basis of trials in an
existing 1,400 ha of orchards in the area, of which 700 ha are already in
production. About 60 participating villages would each develop 30-40 ha
orchards, contracting with specialized households for management of each
0.2-0.5 ha. The project would provide seedlings, labor, chemical
fertilizer, planting material and a fruit storage house.



- 17 -
3.27     Grateg:  About 540 ha of grapes would be established on eight
county-owned plantations in Donghai County. Planting material would be
obtained from the Botanical Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences and the National Grape Research Institute in Shandong. The
project would include completion of minor irrigation works (a nearby
reservoir would be the water source) and provision of labor, seedlings,
fertilizers, and concrete posts and wires to support the vines.
3.28     Agro-Drocessing:  The project would also include construction of
the following processing facilities to meet the needs of the agriculture
component:
Grapes -   construction of a grape juice plant with a capacity of 3,200 t
per year (located in Donghai); and
Hawthorn - construction of a hawthorn processing plant with a capacity of
3,000 t of juice, 200 t jelly and 130 t pcwder.
Agriculture Technology Development
3.29     This component consists of eight subprojects selected by the
Jiangsu Technology Research and Development Institute and aimed at testing
innovative technology approaches in various fields of agricultural
production and processing. It would provide answers vital to
strengthening the linkages between research, development and
commercialization of these approaches not only in Jiangsu Province but
also of great importance to other areas in China. The subprojects are
described in Annex 2 and summarized below:
two shrimp feed mills based on new formulae, one involving
enzymatic digestion of fish and shrimp waste;
a mink feed mill using feed with a primarily vegetable protein
basis in addition to animal protein;
a rapeseed processing plant using newly patented Canadian
technology to detoxify oil and meal and render it useful for
human and animal consumption;
expansion of sesbania planting (a salt-tolerant soil improving
legume) in newly reclaimed tidal lands, not only for land
reclamation but primarily for production of glue from sesbania
seeds, and expansion of an existing gum powder plant;
planting of improved barley varieties suitable for malting and
constructing a malt plant;
production of improved asparagus varieties using modern
biotechnology methods and construction of a processing plant for
fresh (packaged), quick frozen and canned asparagus; and
production of serology test kits for fast and accurate
identification of animal and plant diseases, particularly
viruses.



- 18 -
Vehicles
3.30     The project would provide about 268 vehieles, ranging from 1.75-t
to 8-t capacity, to meet the annual transport volumes of aquatic,
livestock and agricultural production. Specialized vehicles, such as cold
storage trucks and heavy trucks, would be provided to cold stores, feed
mills, technical service centers and agroprocessing plants, and transport
vehicles would be made available to farms. Workboats and small tractors
would be provided to farmers.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.31     Training activities would focus on the mariculture component,
particularly shrimp production, by providing some 2,500 manmonths of local
training for farmer-producers and about 63 manmonths of overseas study
tours for project staff. The project includes about four manmonths of
technical assistance for the agriculture technology development component
and funds for purchase of patent rights. For agricultural and animal
husbandry components, local training for producers would be provided.
During negotiations, the details and schedule of the proposed training
program (Annex 5) were reviewed and an assurance was obtained that the
training component would be carried out in accordance with a schedule
acceptable to the Bank Group.
D. Project FeAtures in Zheiiang
Maricult=X
3.32     Shrimp:  The proposed project in Zhejiang would provide for
construction, completion or upgrading of sea dikes, gates and drainage
channels to enclose and drain 1,840 ha of tidal flats at five different
sites. Three sites--Dingshan, Shepan, and Wumen--are administered by the
Zhejiang Tidal Land Reclamation Corporation and are referred to
collectively as the Newly Enclosed Tidelands (NET); at these areas
construction of the reclamation dikes and gates is ongoing and the project
would provide for completion. The fourth site, Kaomen, located on Daishan
Island, is already fully enclosed, but some additional strengthening of
the dikes would be carried out under the project. The fifth site, Damutu,
would be the only site on which work has not yet begun; the proposed
project would cover Damutu Stage I or about half the area to be eventually
developed.
3.33     Generally, each site would require construction of a considerable
length of dike in shallow water and a short closure dike in an area where
water depths at high tide are up to 7.5 m. The closure dikes must
withstand the high tidal velocities of ebb and flow through a nearly
closed embankment or they may be located in deeper water in an exposed
situation where much more severe wave conditions must be withstood. The
maximum height of a closure dike would be about 12 m. Construction of
dikes on these very soft foundations is challenging; the soil has very low
bearing capacities and under loading exhib.ts very large consolidation.
At some locations, allowances of up to 3 m have been made for settlement
of the dike after construction. The design standard for the proposed



- 19 -
project (for a one in 10- or 20-year storm) is the same as used on
existing reclamation projects and is justified on the basis that even
though there has been damage to existing projects during typhoons, there
has been no breaching of the sea dikes and the damage is slow and
progressive and allows for ample warning. Also, no habitation or
important public services are permitted to be located within the area
protected by the outermost dikes.
3.34     Within the reclaimed areas, 1,382 ha would be developed for
shrimp ponds. Ponds would be supplied with seawater and drained by
separate canal systems. The sea gates for incoming water would be sited
away from harbors and other potential sources of pollution and at some
distance from the outflow gates. The ponds would be equipped for a
flushing rate of 30-50% of their volume per day; these high rates would be
required only on the hottest days and during growth periods. Tidal flows
would provide most of the energy necessary for flushing, but some pumping
would be required during neap tide periods (occurring at the first and
third quarters of the moon). The ponds at the highest elevations would
use pumps for less than 20 days per month, and those lower, even less.
Typically, about one-third of the pond area at a project site can be
flushed without any pumping.
3.35     A typical pond would have a water surface 100 m x 270 m (2.7
ha). It would be enclosed by a 2 m high embankment formed with steep side
slopes of 1.5-2 horizontal to 1 vertical. Water depth would vary from 1.5
to 2 m, except in a 10 m (width) x 1 m (depth) trench located about 10 m
from the dike. The internal geometry and water flushing rates are
different from the Jiangsu project. The greater water exchange capacity
follows from the fact that most of the water flow would be provided by
tidal action at no pumping cost. The higher rates of flushing provide a
means of temperature control making water depth less important and
favoring a simple form of construction which leaves the centers of the
ponds relatively shallow.
3.36     To meet feed requirements, feed mills would be provided at each
of four sites. Total capacity would be about 8,000 t--sufficient to meet
the requirements of the project area. Shrimp farmers in Zhejiang are
presently without adequate supplies of pelletized feed and about 80% of
shrimp feed is trash fish. Considerable amounts of feed are lost through
dissolution resulting in both low feed conversion rates and deterioration
of water quality. With properly formulated pelletized feed, conversion
efficiency would be increased, water pollution would be reduced, and unit
shrimp yield could be increased. Five cold stores, with capacities
ranging from 100 to 500 t, would be provided, one at each site.
3.37     uls:  The project would provide for establishment of 42 ha of
warm flowing-water ponds and 91 ha of cold still-water ponds for eel
cultivation. Warm water systems, using water from wells or industrial
cooling systems, would have flow rates to allow exchange of 100 percent or
more of tLe pond volume per day. Cold water systems, using unheated
surface water and operating seasonally from March to October, would have
water exchange rates of about 33 percent per day in the operating season.
In the cool season, the water depth would be increased and water exchange
minimized. Segregated water inflow and outflow channels would serve each
pond. Ponds would be 600 - 1200 sq m in area and about 0.9 m deep.



- 20 -
Support facilities would include two feed mills, with a total capacity of
3,000 t, and an export holding facility, in which to condition and package
eel for live shipment. In addition, the project would provide a roast eel
plant and a small plant to produce the specialized cartons to be used for
shipping eel overseas.
yehicleas and Eguigment
3.38     The project would provide, in addition to the usual vehicles for
production farm use, construction equipment to carry out nomplete
reclamation of the Damutu site. Requirements in Zhejiang call for about
141 vehicles, to be distributed between farms and support facilities such
as technical service centers, feed mills and cold stores. In addition,
workboats and small garden tractors would be provided to farmers.
Training and Technical Assistane
3.39     The project would provide training to upgrade the skills of local
development corporation and project office personnel end introduce them to
new technology in shrimp production, farm management and processing.  The
project includes 873 manmonths of medium- and long-term training (ranging
from five months to two years) at local colleges, 1,500 manmonths of
training for farmers, and 70 manmonths of overseas study tours and
training. It also includes funds for research contracts on feed
formulation, and production and processing technology (Annex 5). During
negotiations, the details and schedule of the proposed training program
were reviewed and an assurance was obtained that the training component
would be carried out in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank
Group.
E. Status of Proiect Preparation
3.40     In Jiangsu, sites for the fisheries subprojects have been
approved by the provincial Bureau of Aquatic Products (BAP) on the basis
of surveys carried out by the township and county engineers; each county
(BAP or Bureau of Water Resourses) is preparing its final designs.   The
cost estimates are based on model designs for some sites and on prices
from current construction work in the local areas. In Zhejiang, planning
for the reclamation work is well advanced. The Bureau of Water Resources
engineers are experienced in the development of reclamation projects.
Site surveys and foundation investigations have been carried out at all
five sites, with laboratory tests of foundation soil samples included in
feasibility reports. Final design and construction drawings for the first
year's work in both project areas were undertaken between appraisal and
negotiations, and pond. excavation commenced in late 1987. The provincial
project offices have been set up and key staff have been appointed. The
training and technical assistance programs were agreed at negotiations.
F. Imnlementation Schedule
3.41     The Jiangsu component would be implemented over a period of four
years beginning in late 1987 with completion in late 1991. Mariculture,



- 21 -
animal husbandry components, fruit and nut plantation establishment, and
all processing facilities with the exception of the grape juice plant
would be completed in three years. In Zhejiang, the project would take
somewhat longer on account of the construction of sea dikes. Shrimp ponds
and supporting facilities would be carried out in two years following the
initial closure of the reclamation dikes at each site. Except for Damutu,
all subprojects would be completed by the end of 1990; Damutu would be
completed in 1992. A detailed implementation schedule is given in Fig. 1.
G. Cost Esti.tes
3.42     The total project cost in December 1987 prices is estimated at
US$217 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$102 million or 47%
of the total. .The total cost of the Jiangsu component is estimated to be
US$158.7 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$73.5 million
(46% of the total) and the Zhejiang component, US$58.3 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$28.5 million (49% of the total). This
cost includes about US$500,000 in local taxes (at a rate of 10% on Jiangsu
agro-processing facility buildings); imported materials and equipment are
exempt from duties. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from
the designs described in para. 3.41 and unit prices currently prevailing
in the project area. Prices for materials and equipment are based on
suppliers' quotations. Physical contingencies range from 5-15% of civil
works and equal 8% of base uosts. Price escalation for both foreign and
local costs when expressed in US dollars is based on annual international
price escalation rates for all goods and services of 1% in 1988-90 and
3.5% in 1991-93; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price escalation
rates of 6.5% in 1988-90 and 4.5% in 1991-92. Price contingencies would
amount to 2% of total costs expressed in US dollars. Estimated costs are
summarized in Table 3.2 and details are given in Annex 3.



- 22 -
Table 3.2 - PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   For.  Total    Local  For.   Total  FE
(Y million)           (US$ million)      (%)
JIANGSU
Shrimp Development          173.2  118.2  291.4     46.7   31.9   78.6  40
Eel Development              33.2   26.7   59.9      8.9    7.2   16.1  45
Laver Development             9.5    5.2   14.7      2.6    1.4    4.0  35
Agriculture                  23.5   21.3   44.8       6.3    5.8   12.1  48
Animal Husbandry             30.9   57.1   88.0       8.3   15.4   23.7  65
Agriculture Technology       14.9   18.4   33.3      4.0    4.9    8.9  55
Base Cost                   285.2  246.9  532.1     76.8   66.6  143.4  46
Physical Contingencies       24.8   21.4   46.2      6.9    5.6   12.5  46
Price Contingencies          37.6   32.5    7.0.1     1.5  ,3    2.8  46
Subtotal                347.6  300.8  648.4      85.2   73.5  158.7 46
ZHElIANG
Shrimp Development       53.6   67.6  121.2      14.4   18.2   32.6  56
Eel Development          47.5   29.2   76.7      12.8    7.9   20.7  38
Base 'ost                   101.1   96.8  197.9     27.2   26.1   53.3  49
Physical Contingencies        7.0    6.7   13.7      1.9    1.8    3.7  49
Price Contingencies          14.1   13.6   27.7      .7Q  0.6   _L.   49
Subtotal                122.2  117.1  239.3      29.8   28.5   58.3  49
GRAND TOTAL                     469.8   417.9  887.7    115.0  102.0  21L70  47
H. FMig
3.43     Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 44.0 million
(US$60 million equivalent) and a Bank Loan of US$40 million equivalent and
would cover 46% of total project costs. The Government would onlend the
equivalent of SDR 30.4 million (US$41.4 millton) and US$27.6 million to Jiangsu
provincial government and SDR 13.6 million (US$18.6 million) and US$12.4
million to Zhejiang provincial government. The balance of US$117 million
equivalent would be met from the following:
(a) Jiangsu provincial government and the municipalities, counties
and townships under its Jurisdiction - US$89.7 million equivalent;
and
(b) Zhejiang provincial government and the municipalities, counties
and townships under its Jurisdiction - US$27.3 million equivalent.



- 23 -
I.  Prcuewmaent
3.44       Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  Works worth
about US$147.7 million would be required for the project. The Government
policy is to use labor-intensive methods wherever possible. This procedure is
particularly suitable for pond construction, plantation establishment and
on-farm works (US$108.0 million or 73% of total works). Townships would
directly carry out pond construction, contracting with local labor teams.
Townships and villages would contract with local farmers for plantation
establishment, ar4 farmers themselves would carry out the on-farm works under
animal husbandry, .ainly conutruction of animal pens.  Civil works for sea
dikes, cold stores, feed mills, technical service centers, and processing
plants, amounting to US$39.7 million (27%), would be procured through local
competitive bidding (L ') using procedures that have been reviewed and found
acceptable to the Bank    .ace these works are scattered geographically and
spread over time, they would not attract foreign attention.
3.45     Goods worth about US$67.9 million would be required for the project.
Whenever possible, machinery and equipment will be grouped into contracts
valued at US$200,000 or more and procured through ICB according to Bank Group
Guidelines. This will include the main agro-processing machinery (US$15.6
million), construction materials (US$9.9 million), vehicles (US$8.4 million),
feed and fertilizer (US$7.9 millio,.) worth a total of US$41.8 million (628 of
the total value of goods). Qualtfied domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference of 15% of c.i.f. bid price or applicable custom duties, whichever is
less, in bid evaluation. Contracts for goods valued at less than US$200,000
will be purchased through LCB using procedures that have been reviewed and
found acceptable to the Bank; this will include accessory equipment-for feed
mills, cold stores and processing plants, workboats, and small farm equipment
totalling US$12.6 million (19% of goods). Contracts for items of less than
$50,000 and other specified off-the-shelf items, subject to the Bank Group's
approval, would be procured through international and local shopping. This
would include breeding stock (US$2.8 million), fish meal (US$4.8 million),
individual pieces of construction equipment (US$1.0 million), and selected
equipment for the agricultural technology development component and small items
of laboratory and train3ng equipment (US$3.4 million), which would be procured
by directly soliciting bids of all known suppliers, both local and foreign.
However, the breeding stock, fish meal and a majority of the other items are
only available from foreign suppliers.
3.46     Training and technical assistance requiring foreign exchange
($800,000) would be financed by the Bank and subject to the Bank's prior
review. The remaining training requirements would be contracted for locally
and financed by the Goverment.
3.47     Preparation of bid documents would be carried out by the China
National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CMIEC), an agency responsible
for ICB procurement in China and which has carried out this function for
previous Bank group projects. Bid invitation and evaluation and award
recommendations would be the responsibility of CMIEC in consultation with the
provincial authorities.



24 -
Table 3.3 - PROCUREMENT PROFILE
Procurement Method            Total
Project Element         ICB      LCB      ILS      Other     Cost
- - - - - - - (US$ million) - - - - - - -
Works:.
Pond development                                         97.9     97.9
(35.7)   (35.7)
Sea dikes                              10.3                       10.3
( 6.7)                     ( 6.7)
Plantation establishment
and on-farm works                                      10.1     10.1
( 3.7) ( 3.7)
Buildings and roads/a                  29.4                       29.4
( 7.7)                     ( 7.7)
Subtotal Works                      39.7             108.0    147.7
(14.4)            (39.4)   (53.8)
Goodfis:
Processing, laboratory
and training equipment      15.6      9.5      3.4              28.5
(13.0)   ( 2.6)   ( 0.5)            (16.1)
Construction material          9.9                        1.5     11.4
(9.3)                      ( 0.0)   ( 9.3)
Vehicles and construction
equipment                    8.4      3.1      1.0              12.5
( 6.6)   ( 1.7)   ( 0.6)            ( 8.9)
Feod and fertilizer            7.9               4.8              12.7
( 5.9)            ( 4.4)            (10.3)
Breeding stock                                   2.8               2.8
( 0.8)            ( 0.8)
Subtotal Goods              41.8     12.6     12.0      1.5     67.9
(34.8)   ( 4.3)   ( 6.3)   ( 0.0)   (45.4)
Training and Technical
Asuisrtance:                                            1.4      1.4
0.8W)   _0.8)
TOTAL                           41.8    52.3    12.0   110.9   217.0
(34.8)   (18.7)   ( 6.3)   (40.2)  (100.0)
/a For cold storage facilities, feed mills, technical service centers,
processing plants.
Notes:
1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA
Credit and Bank Loan. All amounts include contingencies.
2. A prior Bank review would be required for all ICB packages (estimated
to be about 70% of total value of goods).



- 25-
J.  Diabursoments
3.48     Disbursements for vehicles, processing equipment and machinery,
breeding stock, construction mdaterials, laboratory equipment, fishmeal,
eel feed and fertilizer would be at 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
items and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Disbursements for overseas training and study tours and consultant
services would be 100% of total costs. For the Jiangsu component,
disbursements for pond development, laver establishment, plantation
establishment and on-farm works would be at 37% of total expenditures;
disbursements for roads and buildings would be at 24% of total
expenditures. For the Zhejiang component, disbursements for sea dikes
would be at 65% of total expenditures; pond development at 36% and roads
and buildings at 34%. For expenditures relating to civil works, overseas
training, study tours, and contracts for goods and services costing less
than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursement will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs). SOEs would be supported by progress
reports showing physical quantities and unit prices which would be updated
annually by the Project Offices and reviewed by IDA. Supporting
documentation would be retained by the Project Offices and be made
available to Bank Group supervision missions.
3.49     In order to provide for efficient disbursement, special accounts
would be opened in US dollars in banks acceptable to IDA with initial
deposits of SDR 3.6 million (US$4.9 million) and SDR 1.9 million (US$2.6
million) which represents the average estimated four-month expenditures
for Jiangsu and Zhejiang, respectively. Applications for replenishment of
the special accounts would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special
accounts are drawn down to 50% of their initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
3.50     The project is expected to be completed by end 1992 and the
closing date would be June 30, 1993. The disbursement experience in China
has been very favorable and better than Bank-wide and regional averages.
The project disbursement profile is in line with that for specific
investment loans in China. In order to facilitate startup of the project,
retroactive financing is being provided. This would not exceed SDR 5.1
million (US$6.9 million) for Jiangsu and SDR 2.2 (US$3.1 million) for
Zhejiang and would cover expenditures made between appraisal (June 30,
1987) and signing of the Loan/Credit. Estimated schedules of expenditures
and disbursements are given in Annex 3.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.51     In Jiangsu, records of expenditures on civil works, machinery and
vehicles, construction and electrification materials, and livestock would
be maintained by the project offices in participating counties. These
records would be forwarded to the municipal development corporations,
which would prepare consolidated accounts including their own records of
expenditures on civil works and agroprocessing equipment. The provincial
project office would, in turn, compile a complete report on project
expenditures. In Zhejiang, records of local expenditures would be
maintained by the three participating development corporations (Zhejiang



- 26 -
Land Reclamation Corp., Zhejiang Aquaculture Corp., and the Ningbo-Damutu
Coastal Land Development Corporation) and forwarded to the project offices
in the provincial Water Resources Bureau, Bureau of Aquatic Prodtcts, and
the Ningbo municipal project office, respectively. The municipal project
offices (Jiangsu) and provincial bureau project offices (Zhejiang) would
include their own records of expenditures and forward all material to the
respective provincial project office for compilation of a complete
report. The provincial POs would submit reports to the Bank Group.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the provincial POs would
maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing annually by the State
Audit Agency and that the audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank
Group within six months of the close of each financial year. The audited
accounts would include details of withdrawals from the Loan/Credit account
made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors' opinion as to whether such
withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by the
Bank Group.
L. Environmental lmnact
3.52     In Jiangsu province, large tracts along the coastline have been
converted from beaches and mudflats into agricultural land. The project
areas are all on reclaimed land; hence the project will not infringe on
any natural wetlands. There is a large wintering area for migrating birds
adjoining the proposed project area, however, development activities under
the project would not adversely affect wildlife. The Zhejiang coastal
area, lacking marshes, ponds and extensive mudflats, is unsuitable for
wildfowl. Provision for waste control is being included in the design of
the agroprocessing plans. The inclusion of mink raising in the project
is an important part of waste control; their willingness to eat normally
inedible material makes their producers a significant market for waste
products such as reject eggs, fisheries scraps and packinghouse wastes.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provincial governments
would insure that project activities would conform to appropriate
guidelines on environmental control issued by the provincial governments
and accept.-ble to the Bank Group.



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT
A. Prolect OrganizatioM
4.1         In line with the trend toward decentralization of government
activities, the governments of Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces would be
responsible for overall project implementation. Each province has
established a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) for inter-agency
coordination, a Provincial-level Project Office (PPO) to function as a
secretariat to the PCC and as an administrative organ for obtaining
government approvals, and Development Corporations (DCs), provincial
autonomous entities to serve as implementing agencies for the project.
The Bank Group's legal documents (Loan, Credit and Project Agreements)
distinguish between the two provinces' components by specifying in the
project description Part A those activities carried out in Jiangsu
province and Part B, those in Zhejiang province. The Schedules for
Allocation of the Loan and Credit have specified categories and amounts
for Parts A and B, separately, and there would be two special accounts.
The Government and each province would enter into Subsidiary Loan
Agreements setting out their respective obligations in project
implementation. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements with each of
the provinces, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of Loan and Credit effectiveness. The organizat-ion for project
implementation is shown in Charts 1 and 2 for the respective provinces.
B. Provincial Coordinating Committees and Project Offices
4.2         Each province has set up a PCC chaired by a vice governor and
consisting of representatives from provincial level technical and
financial agencies involved in the project. The PCCs would act as policy,
planning and review boards and serve to enlist the support of the agencies
represented. The PCCs would meet periodically as needed to coordinate the
activities of the agencies involved in project implementation and to make
project-related policy decisions. They would approve the annual work
program and budget and would also serve to keep the provincial governments
apprised of overall progress in project implementation.
4.3         PPOs have been established within the main agencies involved
in planning and preparing the project--the Bureau of Aquatic Products in
Jiangsu and the Planning Commission in Zhejiang. PPOs would be
responsible for submitting annual implementation plans and budgets for the
PCC approval, monitoring physical and financial progress of the project
(including setting up the accounting system, training accountants and
collecting documentation from participating entities for disbursement),
and establishing guidelines for quality control and labor safety. They
would be the coordinators of the various agencies involved in the project
for procurement, training, and supply of government allocated materials.
The PPOs would approve disbursement of Bank Group and provincial
government funds by the provincial Finance Bureaus, and monitor project
execution and repayment of funds by executing agencies. The PPOs would
carry out the compilation of data for Progress Reports submitted to the
PCCs and to the Bank Group and would be the liaison points with the Bank
Group.



- 28 -
4.4         The PPOs have drawn experienced staff from the Bureaus of
Water Resources, Aquatic Products, and Agriculture and from the Planning
Commissions. While the directorships would be part-time positions filled
by senior provincial government officials, deputy directors would be
government officials assigned full-time to the PPO and responsible for the
day-to-day work. Each PPO would have about 10 staff, including civil
engineers, aquaculturists, accountants, statisticians and an interpreter.
4.5         In Jiangsu, a structure of coordinating committees and project
offices similar to that at the provincial level has been established at
the municipal level in Lianyungang, Nantong and Yancheng and in the
participating counties under their jurisdiction. The Municipal-level
Project Offices (MPOs) would monitor physical and financial progress of
the project, provide guidelines on construction standards, and approve
disbursement of funds by the municipal Finance Bureaus to the development
companies within their districts and to the county Finance Bureaus. The
County Project Offices (CPOs) in the 18 participating counties would be
responsible for site selection, development planning, financial analysis,
and coordination of the participating townships. They would prepare
preliminary site surveys and designs, approve construction contracts, and
annual budgets. They would also, with the assistance of the MPO,
supervise construction progress and coordinate loan collection from county
and township farms and enterprises (paras. 4.11-4.12). CPOs would also
approve disbursements to the county-level development companies and the
townships. Both MPOs and CPOs would be staffed with 7-10 qualified
livestock specialists, aquaculturists, agronomists, civil engineers,
economists and accountants.
4.6         In Zhejiang, where the scope of the project is smaller and
organizationally less complex, project offices have been set up in the two
government agencies--the Bureaus of Water Resources and Aquatic
Products--and in Ningbo municipality. The staffing and responsibilities
would be similar to the Jiangsu NPOs. CPOs in the Bureau of Water
Resources and the Bureau of Aquatic Products would be similar to the
Jiangsu CPOs.
C. DLevelopaent Corporations
4.7         DCs are a new form of organization to China and have been
created as a means of separating government's normal administrative and
regulatory functions from developmental and commercial activities. In line
with central government directives, both provinces have designated DCs for
the dual roles of project implementing agencies and financial
intermediaries. In Jiangsu, there are three municipal-level DCs: the
Lianyungang Aquatic Breeding Corporation, the Nantong General Aluatic
Products Corporation and the Yancheng General Development Corporation.
While the project has been the impetus for establishment of the Yancheng
corporation, both Lianyungang and Nantong are utilizing previously
established corporations for the project. In Zhejiang, the Zhejiang Tidal
Land Reclamation Corporation, the Zhejiang Aquaculture Corporation and the
Ningbo-Damutu Coastal Land Development Corporation would serve as agents
of the provincial government in implementing the project. All six



- 29 -
corporations have charters consistent with regulations approved by the
State Council, giving them the status of legal entities. The charters
detail the scope of activities, sources and amount of capital, and
borrowing powers. They describe management structure, including
provision for boards of directors and professional managers. The six
charters have been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank Group. It
was confirmed at negotiations that all six DCs under the project have
secured the necessary approvals, licenses and initial funding from the
appropriate provincial authorities and have been established.
4.8         The DCs have a mandate for a broad range oi. developmental
activities including implementation of the proposed and similar
projects; introduction of foreign capital and technology through joint
ventures and other forms of collaboration; marketing of inputs and
products; and provision of technical assistance. The provincial- and
muncipal-level DCs would implement the project and other activities
through subsidiary companies. These would irnclude county- and
township-level development companies, established with equity provided
by local governments and supervised by the provincial-/municipr;l-level
DCs, and wholly- or jointly-owned subsidiaries, such as new agro-
processing facilities, which would be organized and managed as
independent financial entities. The six DCs would rely on revenue
earning activities, loan financing and service fees for recovery of
development costs including servicing of foreign exchange borrowings;
since the DCs would bear the financial risk of subloans extended for
project activities, they would provide a reserve for bad debts. An
understanding was reached at negotiations on operating guidelines (Annex
8) for DC financial viability, including requirements that the DCs
maintain a debt-equity ratio of not greater than 5:1, that any
additional activities selected for DC investment participation and to be
financed under the project should have financia;L and economic rates of
return of at least 12%, and that sublending by DCs to enterprises and
farms would be at prevailing Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) interest
rates. DCs would pay profit and other taxes to the provincial and
municipal governments and allocate after-tax profits as determined by
the boards of directors.
D. Management of Production
4.9         Whereas the Project Offices would be active in planning and
implementing the project, their responsibilities after the construction
period would be mainly monitoring repayment from the DCs to the
financial bureaus and most of the staff would return to their original
agencies. The DCs would be responsible for overseeing production
activities (fishery, livestock and agricultural products) throughout the
life of the project. The DCs at the relevant level would contract with
county, township and village farms (collectives) for shrimp, eel and
laver production and would insure the availability of necessary
production inputs, including fry, raw materials for feed, and credit for
working capital. Shrimp farms would in turn contract with families or
groups of households under the production responsibility system for
operation of a single pond within the farm, set targets for production,
and recover their investment costs through contract fees. Individual



- 30 -
households would be responsible for meeting production targets and would
receive bonuses for above-target production. Eel farms and laver beds
would generally be organized as township or village enterprises,
operated through contracts (with the local government), which specify
land use rights, tenure and annual production targets. Profits from
above-target production would be shared by the management and workers.
The DCs would contract directly with individual households for livestock
production and with townships and villages for fruit and nut
production. Breeding farms would be managed as township or village
enterprises with permanent employees receiving salaries and bonuses. In
keeping with the ongoing economic reform process in China, in each case
incentives, responsibilities and production risks would be located to
the extent possible with the natural unit of production.
4.10        Agro-processing facilities, including feed mills and cold
stores, would be owned by the DCs, either wholly or as joint-ventures
with local governments, and operated as commercial activities with their
output priced at competitive market levels. Legally, they would have
the status of state-owned enterprises with charters registered with the
General Administration of Industry and Commerce (GAIC) defining the
scope of their activities, sources and amounts of capital, borrowing
powers and management structure. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the agro-processing facilities would be managed by
competent staff with experience and backgrounds relevant to the
respective types of processing.
E. inancial Management
Terms and Conditions
4.11        Proceeds of the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit would be onlent by
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the provincial governments of Jiangsu
and Zhejiang at a 4.5% annual interest rate, with repayment over 15
years including a five-year grace period. The provincial governments
would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Jiangsu provincial government
would onlend to the municipal governments of Lianyungang, Nantong and
Yancheng for the activities under their respective administrations. The
municipal governments would use a portion of the funds directly to cover
the costs of establishing technical centers (Lianyungang and Nantong)
and the remaining funds would be onlent to the municipal or county level
DCs in the form of subloans issued by the municipal governments through
their municipal or county finance bureaus. In Zhejiang, the provincial
government would onlend directly to the Zhejiang Aquatic Products
Corporation and the Land Reclamation Corporation for the activities
under their purview and to Ningbo municipal government, for further
onlending to the Ningbo-Damutu Coastal Land Development Corporation.
Lending to county-level DCs would be carried out with the respective
county as guarantor for repayment. End users--collectives (in the case
of shrimp, eel and laver) and county and township enterprises (for feed
mills, cold stores, and other agro-processing, and animal husbandry and
agricultural activities) would pay interest at prevailing ABC rates,
which currently range between 7.2% and 10.8%.



- 31 -
These rates are positive and are expected to remain positive.
Subbortou.ars would be required to contribute about 30% of total project
costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that project funds
would be onlunt to subborrowers at the same interest rates charged by
ABC on subloans for similar purposes and with similar maturities and
that the interest rate would be subject to periodic review with the Bank
Group. An understanding was reached that the development corporations
would retain sufficient spreads to cover their transaction costs,
including a reasonable provision for bad debts. The flow r V.unds is
shown in Chart 3.
Cost Recover
4.12        Farms and enterprises would repay loans from DCs on
schedules determined by analysis of the investment cash flows. Local
branches of ABC would handle on behalf of the DCs both disbursement and
recovery of funds for a service charge to be agreed between the
parties. DCs would repay the municipalities and provinces, who would in
turn repay MOF for the use of the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit according to
the prescribed schedules. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that the "float", i.e. any net cash accruals by the DCs due to
differences in timing between subloan receipts and repayments to
Government, would be used by the DCs only for financing development
activities similar to those undertaken under the project. Under present
regulations for state enterprises, the DCs would pay taxes at normai
enterprise rates, but would otherwise be allowed to retain net profits.
Cost recovery for extension and training would be effected through
service fees.
P. Execution of Prolect Works
4.13        Within the framework of review artd approvals by the
provincial coordinating committees and project offices and the municipal
and provincial DCs and POs, county or township DCs would be responsible
for executing the project's pond development, land development, crop
establisbment, and animal breeding and production components, including
support facilities. Infrastructure, including water and power supplies,
roads, bridges and culverts, would be carried out by line agencias of
the lccal governments. In Zhejiang, sea dike construction would be
contracted under local competitive bidding procedures. Construction of
ponds would be contracted to construction enterprises and teams of local
farmers, depending on the component and local circumstances. MPOs under
the slpervision of the PPO would directly implement the higher-level
traitting program. The DCs would contract out the construction of
agro-processing facilities.
G. Project Launch Workshop
4.14        To initiate the implementation phase of the proposed
project, Bank and local staff would conduct a project launch workshop in
one of the project areas (to be selected) for staff of the PPOs, MPOs
and DCs who are responsible for carrying out the proposed project. The
purpose of the workshop would be to review the tota?. process of



- 32 -
implementation and to clarify individual tasks and responsibilities at
each level. Topics to be covered wou'd include: procurement and
contracting procedures, project financi.al management, and project
monitoring and evaluation.
H. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.15        The provincial, municipal (Jiangsu) and agency POs
(Zhejiang) would monitor project progress and evaluate the project's
economic benefits and overall impact. In Jiangsu, each township or
village farm and enterprise would provide to the CPO information on the
following: progress in pond (or crop or livestock) development, yields
and production levels, marketing channels and prices, training, contract
terms and conditions, and incomes of project beneficiaries as well as
the extent of their participation in project activities. This
information would be compiled by each county and submitted to the MPO.
The NPO would use this information in preparing a quarterly report of
physical and financial progress, which would also include an account of
its own expenditures. This report would be submitted to the municipal
coordinating committee and to the PP0. The PP0 would review and
evaluate reports from each MPO and on this basis prepare a semi-annual
progress report for submission to the PCC and to the Bank Group.
Reporting on financial progress would include information on actual and
cumulative expenditures using a format similar to the detailed cost
estimates (Annex 3). Monitoring and evaluation by the POs and
coordinating committees at each level would be based on the quarterly
and semi-annual reports. Monitoring and evaluation methodology would be
one of the main topics of discussion at the project launch workshop to
be held at the outset of project implementation (para. 4.14).
4.16        Not later than six months following completion of
Lean/Credit disbursements, the PPOs would prepare for submission to the
Bank Group a Project Completion Report (PCR) in which project results
would be compared with appraisal estimates. The PCR would describe
changes in production technology, changes in prices in real terms,
changes in earnings and incomes of project farmers, changes in permanent
employment resulting from the project, and related cost recovery
issues. The economic and financial rates of return would be
recalculated on the basis of actual costs and re-estimated benefits.



- 33 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRIGES
A. Production and Processinu
5.1      Yields and production in the project areas are summarized in
Table 5.1. Further details of production are given in Annex 6.
Aguaculture
5.2      ShiLp:   Shrimp farms, comprised of 20 to 870 ha aggregations of
2-3.3 ha ponds, would belong to villages, townships or counties. The
farms would be managed by a permanent staff of technicians, accountants,
and other support staff and would contract with households for pond
operation--generally about 1.6 ha to a worker. The techniques of shrimp
production would be similar in both provinces. Growing conditions would
be slightly more favorable in Zhejiang; growth cessation during the
hottest summer months would be less of a problem since water supplies
would be directly from the sea and thus water temperature would be lower,
and the growing season in Zhejiang is about two weeks longer due to its
more southerly location.
5.3      The project would address the main constraints to yield increases
and improved quality of traded produet: pond structure and water control,
nutritionally balanced feed, and proper handling from farm to market.
With the deeper ponds and better water control, the introduction of
controlled feeding practices and pelletized feed, average yields are
expected to increase from about 0.9 t/ha to 1.95 t/ha by the third year of
production. The yield structure in Jiangsu is projected to be about 308
in the 13-16 cm size range, 50% in the 10-13 cm range and 20% in the 8-10
cm range; in Zhejiang, it is projected to be 48% in the 13-16 cm size
range and 52% in the 10-13 cm range--slightly larger on account of the
longer growing season. Total incremental production at full development
would be around 12,200 t in Jiangsu and 2,700 t in Zhejiang. About 70% of
the shrimp are expected to meet the size requirements for export (10.5 cm
in Jiangsu and 12 cm in Zhejiang) and would be processed in headless,
shell-on form (about 6,300 t after removal. of the head). The remainder
(4,500 t with head) would be sold unprocessed in the local market.
5.4      Laver, a leafy edible seaweed better known by its Japanese name,
nori, would be harvested every two weeks from December until late spring.
Early harvests yield about 1,050 kg/ha, increasing up to 1,950 kg/ha
toward the end of the season, with an average of 1,500 kg/ha for each of
ten harvests. Annual yield is about 15 t/ha in wet weight or 1.5 t/ha in
dried form after processing. Total annual production is expected to be
about 410 t. Processing machines for automated washing and drying of
laver would be provided for each 10-15 ha, generally within 1/2 hr
distance from the culture sites.
5.5       W .  The species used for eel culture in China is the Japanese
eel, AnguIlla jagonica, a catadromous species (grows in freshwater but
migrates to the sea for spawning). Technically, it is still impossible to



- 34 -
TABLE 5.1 - Yields and Production la
Area          Yield        ............... Production.......- ..
Present Future Present  Future    Unit  Present    Future Ineremntal
. ....(ha)*. --..... (t/ha) .....
Jiangsu
Shrimp             4,303   8,261       0.9    1.95    ton    3,872    16,108       12,236
Eel (warm water)               10               45    ton                 450         450
Eel (enclosed)                  9              100    ton                  875        875
Eel (open ponds)               23               15    ton                  340        340
Laver (processed)             273              1.5    ton                 410         410
Grapes               250      540     12.5       15    ton    3,125      8,100      4,975
Hawthorn           3,200   3,500       2.0        3    ton    6,400    10,500       4,100
Apples                      1,200                15    ton              18,000     18,000
Peaches                       200             16.5    ton               3,300       3,300
Pears                         600               21    ton              12,600      12,600
Gingko plantations            540             3.75    ton               2,025       2,025
Gingko intercropping        8,830              1.5    ton              13,245      13,245
chestnut                    1,300             2.25    ton               2,925       2,925
Klnk                                                animals  10,700   140,000    129,300
Goats                                               animals 139,650 1,159,500  1,019,850
Rabbits                                             animals  43,095 1,060,000  1,016,905
Ducks                                               animals  40,000   500,000    460,000
Fish                 170      270     1.13    5.25    ton       187     1,418       1,231
Zhejiang
Shrimp                      1,382             1.9'    ton               2,696       2,696
Eel (warm water systems)       40             52.5    ton               2,100       2,100
Eel (cool water systems)       91             11.5    ton               1,047       1,047
/a In the specific areas covered by the project.



- 35 -
produce elver in hatcheries and all eel culture makes use of seeds of wild
origin. Glass eel of & jiDonica occur only along the coast of China,
Korea, Japan and Taiwan. At present, Japan and Taiwan depend heavily on
glass eel and elver imported from Korea and China. Eel culture is
characterized by a combination of enclosed and outdoor ponds in a series
of different sizes, frequent grading, thinning and transfer from one pond
to another, and multiple size-selective harvests without any definite
seasonality. With aeration and continuous water replacement, very high
stocking density can be maintained. Japanese eels have highly variable
growth rates--fast growers reach market size (150-200 g) in less than 12
months from glass eel stage, while slow growers may take more than 24
months. Annual yields in Jiangsu are expected to reach 10 kg/m2 in
enclosed ponds, 15 t/ha in outdoor ponds, and 45 t/ha in power plant waste
water systems.
5.6       Zhejiang would have in addition to the standard combination of
outdoor and enclosed ponds, some 40 ha of ponds using slow-flowing power
plant waste water. This system would use enclosed ponds, roof covered
ponds, and open ponds. By using heated waste water from the power plants,
supplemented with steam from boilers, and cold surface water from
reservoirs during the summer, water temperature will be maintained year
round at 25 - 28 degrees C. Yield is projected to be 52.5 t/ha in the
heated flowthrough system in Zhejiang. Total annual production would be
1,660 t in Jiangsu and 3,150 t in Zhejiang. A export holding facility
would allow the eel to be conditioned for transport and packaged.
Animal Husbandry
5.7      Mink:  This component takes advantage of the availability of
animal waste (trash fish, goat and rabbit offal). The existing mink
production industry is of fairly high standard. Viability of mink
production is dependent on suitable strains of animals, reproductive
performance, feeding, and disease resistance. Size of the animals--and
thus ef the skin--is an important commercial characteristic. The
condition for size is good development from birth to grading time, and a
good size at weaning is thus the principal criterion of good skin size.
Successful mink farming is dependent on breeding animals with good
hereditary characteristics, the availability of good quality feed,
adequate professional skill of the mink breeder and necessary equipment
for raising. The project would address all these issues. At full
development, annual incremental production would be about 130,000 pelts.
Until recently, a major shortcoming to production efficiency has been the
lack of grading facilities--pelts were sold to the Foreign Trade
Commission without regard to quality. However, grading procedures have
now been set up in the area to provide further incentives to producers to
improve quality of production.
5.8      Goats:  The project would develop goat raising as the main
enterprise for 12,000 specialized households in 50 townships. Each
household would be .1located an average of 1.3 ha of grazing land to be
used in conjunction with about 0.5 ha of arable land, on which to produce
grain and fodder crops. At full development, households would sell an
average of 100 goats per year (eight months of age, 20 kg liveweight) to
the Township Diversified Economy Service Corporations for resale to the



- 36 -
centralized slaughterhouse being provided under the project. Total
incremental production under the project is estimated to be 1.0 million
goats, yielding about 800,000 skins suitable for processing by an existing
pigskin factory which would be expanded for this purpose and 10,000 t of
goat meat from the slaughterhouse to be provided under the project.
5.9      Ducks/fish:  The project would expand the existing 170 ha duck
production area with an additional 100 ha of ponds. Each pond would be
about 0.6 ha, managed by a single household and would produce four cycles
of 300 ducks annually. With a combination of duck manure, grass gathered
from an adjacent 300 ha tract, and compound feed, fish yield is expected
to be 5.25 t/ha with incremental production about 1,230 t. Total
incremental production would be about 460,000 ducks, yielding about 800 t
of meat and 5 t of down.
5.10     Rabbits:  Rabbit raising has been included in the project because
it would give quick returns, does not require specialized labor, and would
take advantage of the abundant grasses in the coastal regions. Some 8,240
households in 52 townships would each raise 130 rabbits a year. Two
breeding farms to be established under the project would provide parent
stock to farmers. Each household would start with 10 breeding females and
five breeding males to produce annually 130 meat rabbits to be raised for
five months and sold for commercial processing at existing facilities,
which are adequate to handle the increased output. Within three years,
one million rabbits would be produced annually.
Fruit and nut oroduction
5.11     Fruits and nuts were selected for expanded production under the
project, mainly to meet unfulfilled domestic demand. The project sites
are under the administration of Lianyungang and Yancheng municipalities,
with hawthorn to be planted in the hills of western Ganyu, the grape and
chestnut plantations over the sandy plains in southern Donghai, the
orchards in Binhai in the old Yellow River channel, ginkgo in Pixian, and
chestnuts in Donghai. Full development yields would be reached by the
third year for grapes, the fifth year for chestnuts, the reventh through
ninth year for orchards, and the fifteenth year for hawthorn and ginkgo.
The area expansion and yield increases, due to improved planting material,
better management and storage facilities provided by the project, are
expected to result in incremental production of 61,200 t of fruits and
nuts at full development.
B. Marketing for Export
5.12     In China, most agricultural foreign trade is conducted by one of
several centralized foreign trade corporations (FTCs) organized along
product lines. These FTCs have their head offices in Beijing, with branch
offices in the main provinces producing or utilizing their products. Also
at the local level are Foreign Trade Bureaus (FTBs) which are in effect
provincial offices of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
(MOFERT). Two FTCs are involved in the project--The China National
Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (CEROILS) and



- 37 -
the China National Native Products and Animal By-products Import and
Export Corporation.  The FTCs conduct all trading activities from the
identification of markets and negotiation of contracts to the procurement
of goods and their shipment. In cooperation with the FTB, buyers are
sought, mostly at the semi-annual Canton (Guangzhou) Trade Fairs.
5.13     Provincial and lower level corporations have little or no part in
negotiating markets and prices. One of the main issues identified in the
Bank report External Trade and Cagital: Reform Issues and Options (Report
No. 6690-CHA) was the "air-lock" that has been created between producers
and the world market. The term "air-lock" describes the buffer that has
been created between Chinese enterprises and world market forces. The
FTCs are the point of contact between China and the world market, and
Chinese enterprises are insulated from world price developments and have
very limited contact with foreign buyers and suppliers. The air-lock
creates four problems which are becoming increasingly important as China
seeks to expand exports: inefficiency of exporting, inappropriate export
patterns, lack of information and lack of competition from imports. In
the case of the present project, lack of information is the most prominent
obstacle. The air-lock of the FTC between the producer and the market has
two serious consequences for the flow of information. First, there is the
simple problem of reacting to market opportunities and secondly, the
absence of contacts between foreign buyers and sellers and Chinese
enterprises means these enterprises are foregoing much "free" technical
assistance concerning such areas as product specifications and design, new
product development, capital equipment, factory design, and quality
control. Foreign experience has shown such direct contacts between
foreign buyers and suppliers and all kinds of domestic enterprises to be
one of the most important, most effective and cheapest sources of
technology transfer and marketing know-how.
5.14     In line with China's policy of gradually giving exporting firms
more autonomy in decision making, each Development Corporation at the
provincial or municipal level will have the option of engaging the FTC as
an agent on their behalf for an agreed commission based on a percentage of
sales value for all export items produced under the project. An
understanding to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
C. Narkets
5.15     Project products are characterized by proven export markets and
high domestic income elasticities of demand. Most project output would be
aimed at the export market, which Jiangsu and Zhejiang already supply with
shrimp, eel and laver.
5.16     Sbrimp:  World production of shrimp in 1985 was around 2.0
million t, with ten major producers accounting for about half of
production. India and China led the list of major producers with each
producing about 10% of the total. Other major producers were Thailand,
US, Indonesia, Norway, Taiwan province, Mexico, Malaysia and Brazil.
World shrimp trade is some 25-30% of total production. Historically,
China's marine catches have been Acetes japonicus, which is used for



- 38 -
shrimp paste or powder and does not enter the market channels of Penaeid
shrimp. Only a minor portion of Chinese production now enters world trade
as headless shell-on product. The project is expected to produce 6,300 t
of processed shrimp for export.
5.17     To date, Japan is the major market for China's export shrimp.
Japan's total imports increased from 160,000 t in 1981 to 212,000 t in
1986, of which China's share increased from less than one percent to about
nine percent (18,700 t) and is expected by the Japanese Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishery to reach 14-15 percent in the early
1990s. At the same time, the Ministry predicted that shrimp demand will
increase by about 10,000 - 11,000 t per year through 1990. Only about 20
percent of Japan's total shrimp supply comes from domestic production; the
remainder is imported. As Japan has stabilized its domestic production at
about 50,000 t, any increase in demand is expected to be met by imports.
Japanese buyers have pursued a policy of developing marine shrimp sources
in other countries. However, as marine catches have levelled off, they
are now concentrating their purchases from shrimp farming. Consumers
prefer two types of shrimp for which they pay higher prices, namely
Kuruma, which is P. JaRoniM& (produced in Hong Kong, Japan, Republic of
Korea, East Malaysia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan Province and
Vietnam) and Taisho, which is P. orientaliJ (produced primarily in
Republic of Korea and China). Demand has been affected by the rising
income levels and by the greater percentage of reals that are consumed at
restaurants. Annual exports from project production would be less than 3%
of Japan's imports.
5.18     Annual imports of shrimp into the US, which hovered around
100,000 t from 1979 to 1983, subsequently began increasing rapidly and
reached a level of 180,000 t in 1986. Per capita consumption is still
just under 2 kg/annum--less than half of that in Japan.  The Chinese share
of the market, which had been negligible during the earlier period, jumped
from 3,500 t in 1985 to 10,700 t (about five percent of the market) in
1986. Chinese shrimp compete with Mexican and Ecuadorian shrimp (about
34% of the market) and imports from Thailand and Taiwan province (about
15% of the market). Thus far, China has not tapped the European markets,
which are supplied to a considerable extent by northern European
countries. Also, Europe imports peeled and cooked & peeled shrimp,
whereas China exports mainly headless, shell-on product.
5.19     Virtually all of China's shrimp is marketed through bulk shipment
contracts entered into at the semi-annual (April and October) Guangzhou
Trade Fairs. Under the project, working groups would be formed to study
and recommend ways in which the marketability of project output could be
increased. They would consider such topics as quality improvement (from
handling at pond side through processing), product diversification
(examples of which would be peeled, cooked & peeled, deveined, head-on,
bread and batter), packaging, and market development (through more active
participation in the world market). For this purpose, it may be
considered desirable for the working groups to develop contacts with
buyers. Funds for overseas study tours would be included in the project.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the working groups would be
established with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank Group.



- 39-
5.20     Domestically, the market for project shrimp is expanding.  The
project would have an incremental production of about 4,500 t of
unprocessed shrimp for the local market. Annual per capita consumption of
all fishery products is still in the range of 5 kg, though the increase in
aquaculture activities is expected to raise this level for urban consumers
in the near future. China's per capita incomes are expected to rise in
real terms during the 1987-92 period by over 6% annually, which combined
with favorable elasticities of demand, promises a secure domestic market
for any non-exported products. Shrimp supplies for the domestic market at
the current time are limited to small quantities of freshwater shrimp and
undersized or inferior quality P. orientals.
5.21     Eel: With increased eel production domestically, China is
expected to restrict the export of elvers and concentrate on production of
grown, live or processed eel. Japan is virtually the only market for live
eel, and consumer preference is for eel of 180-220 gms. Larger eel are
mostly exported to Hong KCong. Japan imports about 25% of its annual
demand (in the range of 70,000-80,000 t); China's share of the imports is
slightly less tlan 5%, with the bulk being met by Taiwan province (94%).
Japan also imports roasted eel (about 12,000 t), but here also Taiwan
supplies about 96% and China about 4%, though China's roast eel exports
have increased from 125 t in 1985 to 430 t in 1986. The Japanese roast
eel market, therefore, appears to off6 good possibilities for China and
particularly, the project. The project's total production of 4,810 t
would be exported--about 3,900 t live and 900 t roasted.
5.22     Laver:  The major producers of laver are Japan, Korea, China and
Taiwan province, of which only China is a net exporter. In 1986, Jiangsu
output had reached 215 t, of which 77% was exported. Existing markets
include Southeast Asia, where nori is a popular item in the traditional
diet, and North America and Europe, where the demand due to the restaurant
trade is growing more than 10% per year. About 70% of the project
production is expected to be exported, with the balance to be sold on the
domestic market. Future prospects for marketing appear good in view of
the growing popularity of Japanese cuisine worldwide, increasing
production and consumption of instant meals, and interest in "health"
foods both in the Orient and in the West.
5.23     Livestock products:  Present production of mink in China is
around 3 million skins per year, with about 25% of the production
exported. Jiangsu provides about 15% of total production. Due to poor
genetic quality of the livestock and unstable feed management, skin
production tends to be less than top quality. Producers sell to the China
National Native Produce and Animal By-products Import and Export
Corporation, which negotiates contracts at the semi-annual Guangzhou Trade
Fair and also supplies furs for the major auctions (Copenhagen, Hong Kong,
and London). Market prospects in the U.S., Japan, Italy and West Germany
are promising, and demand is for both male and female furs of medium to
high quality.



- 40 -
5.24     Fruit and nuts:  Fruit production is an underdeveloped sector of
agriculture in Jiangsu. With orchards accounting for only 2.50 of the
province's cultivated land, per capita fruit consumption remains at about
5 kg per year, less than half the national average. Improved living
standards have already led to increasing demand for fruits and fruit
products. Consequently, most of the output will be aimed primarily at the
domestic market. The provincial demand for hawthorn is approximately
30,000 t, of which only about 3.5% is produced in the province. The
market demand for fruit juice is estimated to be over 1,000 t in
Lianyungang City alone. Grape juice would fill part of the provincial
demand for fruit juices and replace a portion of the imports. Jiangsu
currently produces about 80,000 t of apples with several hundred thousand
tons purchased from other provinces. About 500 t of gingko are produced
annually in the project area, of which 300 t are exported to Hong Kong and
other southeast Asian countries.
D. Prices
5.25     In the past, provincial FTCs have been responsible for
procurement and marketing of export products. They have determined prices
to producers and negotiated with buyers, using excessive margins on some
products to offset losses on others. For the project, each municipality
would have the option of continuing to sell its output to the FTC or
engaging the FTC as an agent on a commission basis (para. 5.14). As
production increases, most municipalities are expected to adopt the latter
practice. The prices negotiated with foreign buyers for many products
have been lower than similar products sold by other exporting countries;
part of this may be due to lower quality and part appears to be an effort
to gain a competitive position. It appears that farmers now face contract
prices set by the FTCs which are less than world market prices,
particularly for eel.
5.26     The financial analysis of the project subcomponents has been
conducted using 1987 average free market prices for horticultural and
livestock products and the provincial governments' 1987 contractual prices
for shrimp, eel, laver and mink. For the economic analysis, farm input
and output values are based upon Bank Group commodity price forecasts and
1987 export prices, adjusted for international and domestic transport
costs and expressed in 1987 constant prices. Conversion factors are used
to derive economic prices for items which do not enter into international
trade. The current financial wage rate ranges between Y 2.8 and Y 5.0 per
workday. Given the unemployment and underemployment in various parts of
the coastal areas, the economic value of unskilled labor has been
estimated at about 50% of the financial wage rate multiplied by the
consumption conversion factor of 1.13. Thus, the shadow wage rates
adopted in the economie analysis ranged from Y 1.6 to Y 2.9.  Current and
projected financial and economic prices and conversion factors are
summarized in Annex 7, which also includes financial and economic analyses
and farm budgets.



- 41 -
E. Farm-Budge&
5.27          Shrimp farms would be operated as county, township or
village enterprises under professional management teams with operation of
individual ponds (2-3 ha in size) contracted oUt to farm households with
each worker responsible for 1.67 ha. Income statements and cash flows
were prepared for 1.67 ha holdings of both new and improved ponds, taking
into account a pro rata share of loan repayment and farm management fees
(Annex 7). Operation of this size pond would require about 250 mandays
per year (nearly full-time employment for one worker, paid at the rate of
about Y 1,200 annually). In addition, about 500 mandays would be required
for annual maintenance after the growing season; this would likely be
performed by the worker, other family members and hired labor. Assuming
that the worker's family undertakes 200 days of the annual maintenance,
the family income would be in the range of Y 2250 per year or Y 560 per
capita (based on a family of four). This is about 16% higher than the
average per capita income of Y 480 in the project areas. During the
12-year period of total repayment of the investment cost, earnings for the
enterprise itself would average Y 130/ha and afterwards, about Y
5,800/ha. The same analysis applied to an improved pond shows that it
would generate the same level of income for operators, but, with a much
lower investment cost per unit area, a higher income for the enterprise--
about Y 7,500/ha after loan repayment. Under the present system of
collective ownership and taxation, about half of this would go to the
local government in the form of taxes and the balance would be kept by the
farm for financing other investments and distribution to management staff
and pond operators. This would be in addition to the tax of 5 percent of
gross value of output already levied on producers.
5.28     Eel farms would be operated as enterprises with skilled workers
engaged for production activities. Each ton of market eel would require
about 100 mandays labor. A farm budget for a typical farm with 3,000 m2
of enclosed ponds and 1.4 ha of open ponds would require 5,100 mandays for
production or full time employment for 17 workers (at 300 days per year).
Workers would earn about Y 1,500 per year; the farm itself would generate
a net income of about Y 57,000 annually during the loan repayment period
and over Y 200,000 after the loan is repaid.
5.29     Laver operations are located at the seaside, typically in
villages which depend on their incomes from coastal fishing. Most of the
labor is seasonal, taking place at harvest (60 percent) from December to
April and usually performed by village women. The remaining 40 percent is
required for installation of rafts and nets prior to and dismantling after
the production season. A household, comprised of two laborers and
responsible for about 0.2 ha of laver fields, would have combined annual
earnings of about Y 630 to supplement family earnings from coastal fishing
and farming. Average incomes are low along the coast--about Y 419 per
capita, and earnings from laver would boost per capita incomes by 35% to Y
575. A village with 14 ha of laver, a nursery and a processing facility
for washing and drying to produce a marketable product would generate,
after paying production costs (includirS labor and processing costs), an
annual net income of about Y 83,000 (Y 74,000 from processing operations
and Y 9,000 from production) after the period of loan repayment.



- 42 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Prgduction and Benefits
6.1      At full development, annual incremental production would amount
to abovt 14,900 t of shrimp, 4,800 t of eel, and 410 t of dried laver.
Livest ick improvements would produce annually about 130,000 mink, 1
million goats, 1 million rabbits, 460,000 ducks and 1,200 t of fish.
Agricultire activities would provide incremental production of 43,000 t of
fruits and 18,200 t of nuts. Annual incremental outpat from project
investments would be about Y 550 million (US$148 million). This and the
following analysis excludes the financial and economic production benefits
of the Jiangsu agricultural technology development component, which will
comprise eight subprojects (Annex 2), each of which is supported by a
feasibility study. The financial returns of each of these subprojects,
after projected taxes ranging up to 50% of net income and based on
conservative output and input price assumptions and reasonable production
factor assumptions, are in all cases greater than 9%. The direct economic
rates of return, based on the same assumptions, in all cases would exceed
12%. If indirect benefits to the nation are eventually recouped through
dispersion of technological developments, the economic benefits would be
substantial.
B. Emloyment And Incomes
6.2      Employment opportunities generated by the project would help
reduce underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the
project areas. The project would improve living standards and income
levels for a total of about 115,000 workers and their families. About
9,000 households would earn the major part of family income through
full-time employment in mariculture activities. About 21,000 households
would supplement their agricultural incomes with animal husbandry sideline
activities and about 85,000 households would earn additional income from
fruit and nut production. Financial analyses of the typical household
farm income for aquaculture production (para. 5.27-5.29) shows that,
within the first three years of the project, per capita incomes would
increase from 16 to 35 percent above the present levels.
C. Economic and Financial Analyses
6.3      An economic analysis was undertaken for each production
activity. The total investment cost used in the economic analysis
includes physical contingencies, but excludes price contingencies. It
includes the full cost of technical service centers and training of
management staff, even though the benefits of these components would be
extended in the future to farmers outside the project areas.  The Jiangsu
shrimp component was split into new and improved ponds (3,958 and 4,303
ha, respectively), because of the difference in investment costs
associated with the two subcomponents. The Zhejiang shrimp component was
analyzed by geographic area; even though all the areas are small (ranging
in size from 122 to 611 ha), project costs include from 15 to 100% of the
associated sea dike construction. Sea dike construction represents the
main difference in construction costs between the two provinces; in
Jiangsu, sea dikes have been constructed over the last several decades and



- 43 -
in Zhejiang, are being undertaken as part of the project. Economic prices
for shrimp, eel and laver were derived from fob Shanghai prices for
Japanese imports. The difference in economic farmgate prices for shrimp
(Y 12,985/t'in Jiangsu and Y 15,300/t in Zhejiang) reflects the two-week
longer growing season and consequent larger size in the more southern
province. All economic values were converted to local currency at the
official exchange rate effective at negotiations of Y 3.7 - US$1.00. The
economic wage rate for operating mariculture components is estimated at
Y 3.2 per day, equivalent to the expected wage of about Y5 per day,
multiplied by the conversion factors for unskilled labor (0.50) and
consumption (1.13). Using these assumptions and discounting costs and
benefits over 20 years, the economic rates of return (ERRs) for the
mariculture components ranging from 30 to 44% in Jiangsu and from 20 to
52% in Zhejiang. At a discount rate of 12%, which is considered to
approximate the opportunity crbt of capital in China, the net present
value of the mariculture components is Y 521 billion (US$140 billWon).
The EkRs were tested for sensitivity to variations in the cost of
investment (+25%), labor (+25%), and operation (+25%) and price of output
(-10%). The sensitivity analysis shows that the project's economic
viability would remain intact with likely levels of change in any single
variable. ERRs are shown in Table 6.1.
6.4      The livestock and agricultural components were analyzed by
production activity, and the ERRs were tested for sensitivity to
variations as above. ERRs for the base case vary between 16 and 25% for
the agriculture components and between 28 and 43% for animal husbandry.
Sensitivity analyses indicates that these components' economic viability
would remain intact with likely levels of change in any single variable.
6.5      Financial analysis was carried out for each component to insure
that farmers would have adequate incentives to participate in the project
and that agroprocessing enterprises were financially viable. The FRRs for
project components ranged from 12 to 24%, and for agroprocessing from 12
to 40%. Selected financial and economic models are shown in Annex 7;
further details are contained in the Project File.
D. Risks
6.6      The project faces no significant technical or organizational
risks. Should significant improvements occur in the feed conversion ratio
for shrimp, the project's financial and economic viability would be even
further improved. Products to be exported have experienced strong and
rapidly growing demand in Japan and other Southeast Asian markets, as well
as in North America and western Europe. Incremental output from the
project will be relatively small compared to international demand and
trade of these items. The most important determinant of market acceptance
of these items is product quality, and the project design accordingly
includes modern processing facilities for all export items and the
formation of study groups focusing on improving the marketability of
shrimp. Domestic markets are also strong and growing rapidly with
increases in incomes, especially in the coastal provinces and cities.



- 44 -
Table 6.1 SUNNARY OF RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
NPV      Inv.    Labor             Oper.
Component         FRR    ERR      ('000)      Cost    Cost     Price   Cost
+25%    +2%        -10%   +25%
Jiangsu Mariculture
New shrimp         13.8    37.8    184,518    31.9    27.7       25.5    11.0
Improved shrimp   18.3    44.5      47,274    35.8    41.7      36.6    22.6
Eel               13.5    29.9      35,390    26.5    29.7       20.8    15.6
Laver              15.0    36.5      7,294    26.2    33.7       29.9    32.5
Jiangsu Agriculture
Apple              15.3    20.7      6,922    19.9    19.0       19.1    18.1
Pear               16.8    23.8      3,022    23.0    22.2       22.5    21.7
Peach              15.4    21.8        711    21.1    20.9       21.0    18.6
Gingko             12.8    16.1     11,605    15.0    15.2       14.4    14.9
Grape              11.9    18.0      1,966    13.9    15.8       14.5    15.7
Chestnut           17.8    25.1      4,403    23.1    24.2       19.2    15.3
Hawthorn           13.2    18.4      2,106    19.3    17.8       17.9    14.0
Jiang,u Animal Husbandrv
J. mink            13.9    32.1     13,961    26.4    29.7       22.6    13.4
J. goat            15.5    43.0     60,000    38.1    37.5       24.4    13.1
J. duck/fish       12.4    28.5     4,547      24.8    27.8      21.4    12.6
J. rabbit          19.1    43.5     12,434    35.9    40.2       31.3    16.5
Zhe iang Mariculture
All shrimp         13.0    27.3     60,461      21.7    26.3    16.7    12.8
Damutu          12.5    20.2      18,277      16.4    19.6    13.0    10.3
Kaomen          18.1    52.2      15,144      41.4    49.8    31.4    27.2
Dingshan        13.1    21.1       4,340      16.7    20.4    12.8      9.8
Shepan          14.0    33.5      14,666      26.9    32.2    20.9    16.3
Wumen           13.9    35.3      10,965      28.2    33.9    21.9    16.9
Eel                14.2    39.4    122,783      32.0    39.0    24.2    11.7
TOTAL PROJECT              31.9



- 45 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1     At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) adequate quantities of chemical fertilizer nutrients would be
procured and made available to farmers and that an annual program
for such provision would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
Group for review prior to November 1 of each year (para. 3.22);
(b) the training components would be carried out in accordance with a
schedule acceptable to the Bank Group (paras. 3.31 and 3.39);
(c) provincial project offices would submit the consolidated accounts
for auditing annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank Group and that the audited accounts, with a statement on the
use of SOEs, would be submitted to the Bank Group within six
months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.51);
(d) provincial governments would insure that project activities would
conform to appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued
by the provincial governments and acceptable to the Bank Group
(para. 3.52);
(e)  agroprocessing facilities would be managed by competent staff
with experience and backgrounds relevant to the particular type
of processing (para 4.10);
(f) project funds would be onlent to end users at the same interest
rates charged by ABC on subloans for similar purposes and with
similar maturities and that the interest rate would be subject to
periodic review with the Bank Group (para. 4.11);
(g) the "float",i.e. any net cash accruals by the Development
Corporations due to differences in timing between subloan
receipts and repayments to Government, would be used by them only
for financing development activities similar to those undertaken
under the project (para. 4.12); and
(h) a working group, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
Group, would be established in each province to study
improvements in marketability of shrimp (para. 5.19).
7.2     At negotiations, understandings were reached on the following:
(a)  the operational guidelines for Development Corporation financial
viability, including requirements that a debt-equity ratio of not
greater than 5:1 be maintained, that any additional activities
selected for financing under the project would have projected
financial and economic rates of return of at least 120, and that
sublending to enterprises and farms would be at the prevailing
ABC rates (para. 4.8);



- 46-
(b) the Development Corporations would retain sufficient spreads to
cover their transaction costs, including a reasonable provislon
for bad debts (para. 4.11); and
(c) the Development Corporations at the provincial or municipal level
would have the right to engage the FTC as a sales agent on their
behalf for an agreed commission based on a percentage of sales
value for all export items produced under the project (para.
5.14);
7.3      The conditions for effectiveness w,uld be approval by the State
Council of the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement and the
execution of the Project Agreement with the Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provincial Governments.
7.4      Subject to the above conditions, the Coastal Lands Development
Project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of $40.0 million
equivalent, with a maturity of 20 years including 5 years of grace, and an
IDA Credit of SDR 44 million ($60.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, both to the People's Republic of China.



- 47 -ANNEX1
Page 1
OW Mm muminr
)M.    tun         . us JLuim    Z.
PmA OmAtVAtlU          OmU                  Ssga pad 1621    VM&AW ba. OCre
sum    VWn  Tqvd            lb. c1ty           lb. O*pNd            eq.a  lb.
NO. f)    w                     OM)                (tw)
1. aw DS,6   4,302                                     14   5,300         12  27,5V 0        9,500       3
A. U1ywrng                          1,9    1,559 "               700          2   3,50          1,500       I
(1) Gnvu oma                       37      87           0       0         a        0            0        0
NW"*  48few             1       67      123
Judli n fam             2       67       67
lb 8tsw2Tsam            3               200
@iwa Tis  hm            4               100
ymxsw VD lbw fm         5       37       37
Smsiis T  Lam           6              236
Iau    U im             7   20D
(2) LUIMDl*tlnt                      0     200         1      300         0        0            0        0
umTofm                 Sa                33
0pwd a8 fU              9               167
um  dtrt                                            1      200
(3) UZeDI.strict                   227       0         1      200         0        0            0        0
lb 5lt a8              10    2I0                    1     200
iqtA5 oTs  m            11      67
(4) 0mi Oty                        233     467         0        0         0        0         1,500       0
Jn 4t Ac. Cbp.         12               267                                              1,X00
YN.,,saT ddap for  123                   S
f3Sm $alt omp           14      67      27
Yaw    isfan            15 N    67      10                             0       0             0
(5) L_arws     A     ltis Co        0        0         0        0         1   3,000 (U)         0        0
(6))L. AmA1tln 1abw.                 0    0            0    0             0    0                0    1
(7)  L     _qim 81.t amp           66        0         1      200         1   2,500             0        0
U"uWg alt Fe=          23      533                  1     2C0          1   2,500 (i)
*AM&    Salt F11        17    1i
S. YU                               1,523   2,220          7   1,200         a  16,000           ,0o0 
(1) Xaw.luI D-v CUp.       16      167     433         1      2Q 0        1   3,000 (U)    1,500         1
(2) Ihi  Oxaty                     440     267         2      400         4   6,000          1,000       0
Ltl*L AM               16      267                  1     200          2   2,000 (i)    1,000
Uidup Lam              19              220                             1   s3000 (3)
cm~  Aqu. Carp.        20                47
=.      Lam                    13                   1     200          1   1,000 (3)
(3) Uare*    _ omty                400     400         2      200         1   3,000          1,500       0
Ornafam                21              253          1     100
Oaye      r am 1am     22      440     147          1     100          1   3,000 (U)    1,500
(4) DaSOrst7                       247     720         0        0         0        0        1,000        0
Cb%d Abp.Cop.          24       67      467                                              1,000
Cpmy Sam               I.      147      223
an        BSlt FSa     la       33      40
(5)  Dtaa  COuts                  S30      200         2      400         2   4,000         1,000        0
OKI*y A a..OMp.        25      100      in          1      200         1   2,000 (U)    1,000
Ca.m   wp Camp         2S      200      100         1      200         1   2,000 Ot)



-48-                                                     ANIEX 1
Table 1
1uA CWAUftzwt          a"l stoma          Ibad 1111        Mat&low To. Out.v
ot"    N    Taad           No. .Aaot          lb. apaity           eq.    o..
Mb.  Ga)    ()                  (tA)              (trA)
co42 2a     p          as 2 0 3      0             1      2n0         1   2,000 (3)
C.  1Mt    RaSalpalty              1,041      5Su         4   3,400         2   6,00          2,000        1
(1) a*      ma
DaesaI a               27      M                                      1   3,000 ()    1,300         0
(2) lba_ Sat Qip.                 133      300         2     2C0         0        0          400       0
DAM   "it hm           2S       a       93         1      100                             4Q0
llr4 "Itfm             29       33      2?
Baru   ait h.          30       20      47
QId4iat 15~            35       33     133         1      100         0       0
(3)   am                           67       0          0       0         0        0          300       0
OWiO  fM               31       33
iDa4fm                 32  33
(4) QId_  qt                      125     223          1     200         2   3,000             0       0
D1 1umf=               33       40      14
Oclapbm                34       0      193         1       00         1   3ao ,o()
i.      ,_ fe,,        26       53
=co= fS 37                       0       7
TvWW4$          S       S       2a      20
(5) Tmlan8mCgntc                    0       0          0       0         0        0            0       1
(6) JtwsC Oin1aob2Co.               0       0          1    ,000         0        0            0       0
Stts *&M aftw emad u1ssIm



- 49-                                                   AN=I
Table 1
Page 3
YA 3Ltm AV  A- S     -104    I- 
ulbg1gu   t;_*  Mi J1.    U. 31.4
Site Paf Camstctlm    C     a  Stems          Fea am          lbdmz  TM. Com
lb. 0m~                   lb. 0mPi_-        lb. fpLty            (no      Wb.
(twes)            (tin)
it.    L                             87,0O0    32.7         0        0         1   2,000            0       0
A. t,uwWs                              0     2.0         0       0         0        0           0        0
Net FVv,atlu . L FISMI     1        0     2.0         0       0         0        0
D.  Wmdiu                         43,500    13.0         0       0         0        0           0        0
OD. LiniAaiA Fa         2  11,500                 0        0         0       0            0       0
(2) Uisyeeg a                   6,000     1.7
a4 #Euf a=              3   2,500     0.7         0        0         0       0            0       0
*Aja,S A94SWO 1g0.C  I&   3,50O       1.0
(3)   AM    CUT                 7,000    10.0
PwbrT8i fax             4   7,000     2.0         0        0         0       0            0       0
Ymiis_  Sau. D". co  la               8.0
(4) Debes IwaW                 12,000
DeSmCo. .fa             5   8,000                 0        0         0       0            0       0
Co. Aq.Adtus Co.       la   4,000
(5)DswteL  a*y                  7,000     1.4         0       0         0       0            0        0
(s. Ae. fStp.           6   1,000
S'iAb VLS              7
StL S  pac. 04.    a   1,000
uL.ua F                 a   2,000     0.7
DOmtaL Fibas Tom    la   2,000        0.7
qCPS lan               Im,  1,000
DOW" D dFOuT pad MIJ            0     0.0
C.   I     lstnMudValit           43,500    17.7         0       0         1   2,000            0        0
(1) 11nlmiamAq. ftPd       a  1O,000      6.7         0       0         0       0            0        0
(2) %%mOowtY                   20,000     4.0         0       0         0       0            0        0
-msa TS "I fa           9   3,000     0.0
New4w  *q. pm6. sat.  10   2,500      0.0
bww  Cewny ea f1 1          3,000     0.0
a:nwi TS eel fan.      12   3,500     1.3
Ilui                   13   3,000     1.3
set"l b. stn.          14   2,000     0.0
LSIA6Ts farm           15      lb
Dais TS  lIn           16   3,000     1.3
(3) tma Co. "I face    17   2,S00         5.0         0       0         0       0            0        0
(4) alueaCaatY                  2,000     2.0         0       0         0       0            0        0
CmW qa %,* Produt  18   1,500         1.3
Dmwo TS ee face        19     500     0.7
(5) Qldmi Cmazy                 9,000     0.0         0       0         0       0            0       0
Caty OIA Ste eI    20   2,200         0.0
dSSe 21  e. fan        2    2,000     0.0
UACGs 2i ee fa.        22   2,800     0.0
Q ImTS esI fan.        23   2,000     0.0
(6)ffgw      l e  feed mll         0        0         0       0         1   2,000            0       0
la1   Stoo add  after SoeaS a  asin
lb    Ste deleed aftW appaiaa mi"esic.



-50-                                                     ANl] 
Table 1
cau
MU         LaOS  r      :rP
lbglaal. mm 4        in Av.w J   M. Law
P1.3 COstmssla         Cold Stam          Fod MAll        ht*AX        ?rs.   Pm.
lb. C4min         No. C*2a7            eq.  Cestes   lbi4
(b)                     (two)             (t"                       lb.     No.
m!.  WAVUR - KAMM                        27                  a        0         0       0 o         600       0      19
A.h Aw  Casty                        1'0                  0       0         0        0        1,200       0        8
(1) Co. Aqa. Otep.          1      47                                                        GM                 4
(2) 3h1t                    2      53                                                        6'0                4
h. h      our"
(1) D     u A. Pzd. Stul   3       67                  0       0         0        0          900       0        5
C. Q idma Caw                        107                  0       0         0        0        1,X0        0        6
(1)  Sl,fi                  4      18                                                        300                1
(2) IAtt                   5       25                                                        330                1
(3) Iad                    6       20                                                        200                1
*4) $wN&                   7       17                                                        260                1
(5) Qlatn                  8        9                                                        140                1
(6) D.WUt                  9        7                                                        100
(7) CO. Nod=  oAlt. fm    10       10                                                        170                1



- 51-                                                 AI1NEX1
Gomus mvmrw via
NW   Ssim             t""I             haUaJIx&W  M
Nine  CU  U~.    ~    gd Mile tatmz~ ?a.                     e .
b49ds                     C40i1             Oolty   Cat a)   (Ms.)
0'.)         .     >(.) (twe)         (so.) (to")
I. n                                   1,382                   5   I,m00          4 8,200 t,200           3
A. DM*o du                                                  1     5XO         1   3,200   1,200        1
S.  1M                           *  200                     1     So0         0            1,000       1
C.  *4 Beoando,6.wAs Cs1                                    3     500              5,000   1,000       1
(1) -A   (VA= cme?)                  18                     1     SW          1   1,00    1,000       1
(2)  wmn (S      yOmay)              252                   1      200         1   3,00
(3) Dipim   a   Xia    )             122                          100         1   1,000
Pi0nauI              bea*t: U19d          Ibs Mlll    Ctm  Dw&
= 11l  / l12  P         Abem Plan            GsIt       Lst  tatlnn
(Ia)      a,'.)    Ci(.)  (two)       (sa.)  (tars)
f. A.                                     42        St         1      M          2   1,500        1       1
A. awh  CitY F=umtgrbe                            3
B. 4d 1 aw-1                          lg 1
C. Jicald Ca,    - Y.                             7
D.  caa      Qmty - Lim                           ?
B. BALM osoit                                     $
F. 4I&M  omtti - xa                               7
0. S_  Cayr - Qiaue                              is
L   as   CatCx   -  Wint                        1I
I.    f CM                                        7
J. 0a'. Cat  - 5seaqi                             S
ZL 2bnr CaUtY - liIi                              4
L. YOM comer - SW=                                6
XL. UIo C1t - 2sI l                               3
X.       C.Lty - =i,4                 is          0
O xsrn  CLty                          13          0
P. Jldm Cz   y                         a          a
Q. 2wusYa-GesbsI                                  7
R. mmb,f cmxgy - WC                               4
11 iam vwte Sadie pAt, of AUh 1S be miced ad 29 ha 1m.
12 Ood 1 a pamU, af d2 I  aw          Aad 89Ib %os.



CZ=
climet Dat - JLinmpa ftwsa..
Jan    Fab     Nr    AT        NW      jus    JUL    Av       SWp    Oct    neo       Dee  Aa    xbm
ft.ditStSA  (m)
LLmwra ns (gouyw)        se.a    26.4    1.5    0*4    52.S  105.2    IO 20S.4  109.1   41.6   40.6   20.1              93   1,S72 (1975)
TY--U.S (Dost"l)         26.0   38.5   57.2   60.2   67.6   129.7   291.5  187.1  146.1   54.3   44.3   26.1   1,109   1,692 (1970)
saumto  (QLdos)          32.6   52.6   60.9   09.7   112.7  173.6   127.9  109.0  141.1   46.6   51.7   39.5   1,045   1,5  (197?)
Llaaw_a_ns Coewu)        49.5   69.8  127.0 1,701.0   213.0  221.0  167.0  180.0  142.0  119.0   81.0   54.0  1,600
Te-mne  (DDstal)         44.0   54.0   96.0  120.0  166.0  180.0  190.0  191.0  135.0  109.0   71.6   49.0  1,420
_tae  (Qidems)           52.7    55.6   91.1   105.9  140.0  144.0  209.0  194.0  137.0  107.9   60.9   57.1  1370                            a
----     --  ---- - --- ---------------             ---------
LLtsing s (GansU)       164.1   174.0  210.0  216.7  24S.1  247.8  214.2  237.0  209.7  216.9  182.3   179.2  2,519
Y nebhm  (DeAstal)      156.2  145.8  174.9  176.3   195.0  205.6  219.8  249.9  180.6  196.3   16.4  163.0  2,232
astens (Q14o)           139.1  13S.5   154.6  161.5  164.0 1,170.2  2S6.6  254.6  170.2  162.5  126.1  147.2  2,074
NmstbLy a-W  te  (4e. C)
8Sh.bAI                    4       S       9      15      20      25     29      29      24      19      13             16 +401-12
Quzds OIa                          1       5      11      17      21      25     26      22      16       9       2      13 +361-16
----    - --- - -- - -- - - ----        ------ - -----------     -  



h ~~~- -                                                           m
t-                        -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -
47.1    n.2   76.2   91.0   15.0   14.S    2.4   91.3  115.1   70.9   40.5   53.4    991
D    l                  39.2   62.0   22.5  230. 3    5.3  208.2   17.7  240.7    7.7   84.3   43.8    6.6  1,455
_bM                    51.9   81.6  162.4  12S.0  190.6  243.0  14.6   231.3  249.5  203.6  114.0   54.1  1,694
_k=mk                   46.9   67.8   98.2    1.7  2305.2  202.8   90.4  218.3  142.3   91.0    6.6    6.7  1.332
-OO    cm)                                                              --                    -                
M_                      73.3   64.0   88.5   1.3  229.1  145.4  237.9  237.9  219.0  160.6  117.9   84.9  16m
D    l                  58.0   49.6    ".6   82.8   95.7  103.2  173.2  170.3  134.4   21.2   84.5   65.9  1,29
mom                     54.7   56.6   80.1  20.3   O0.9  116.4  178.4  245.3  12.7  105.1   S1.2   62.4  1,299
Um                      56.0   51.0   71.1   K1.0   97.2  101.2  172.4  1,70.2  131.2  2224   83.6   61.7  1,176
Doutu-                             -      -       -              ---  -  -                                    -
Kami                   146.1  128.2  149.2  M59.1  162.0  175.4  292.8   27.1  196.2   2N3.3  155.7  142.1  2,177
Dlo*m                  109.7   98.6  105.6 116.5   10.5  252.3  273.4  238.5  201.7  170.4  133.3  21.6  1,819
ampon                  112.8  225.3  228.4  146.7  216.8  133.3  232.5  222.3  168.9  265.6  152.6  143.6  1.869
1=MM                   129.4  202.8  114.9  110.4  106.6  110.0  226.7  237.0  191.9  176.1  143.3  135.9  1,785
Mm air to (de& C)
5.3    5.7    9.0   23.9   28.2   22.5   26.8   27.0   24.0   19.2   13.9    8.4   16.2
Nama                     5.6    5.6    8.5   13.8   28.0   22.7   26.9   27.0   24.0   19.6   14.1    8.7   16.2
Dbw*m                    7.6    6.9   10.9   15.9   20.5   24.0   27.7   27.9   25.3   20.S   15.8   l0.5   17.9
ampa                     5.2    5.7    9.3   15.0   19.5   23.7   27.7   27.5   24.3   18.9   13.2    8.3   16.5
M1                       7.2    7.5   10.5   25.4   20.0   23.9   27.6   28.0   25.3   20.7   2S.4    9.9   17.6
I!0



- 54 -
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject I. ShriLn Feed Production Based on Utilizing Marine Fish and
Shrimp Waste
Scale of production:      4,000 t per yr shrimp feed
Total Cost:               Y 2.97 m (US$804,000)
Bank Group Funding:       US$400,000
Commercial Sponsor:       Yancheng Fish Feed Factory, Sheyang County
Technical Sponsor:        Jiangsu Freshwater Fishery Research Institute
Proiect Description:
The proposed feedmill, to be built on the site of a small existing
unit, would introduce both a new shrimp feed formula and a new production
technology to the project area. It would convert 1,200 t per year of
marine fish and shrimp waste (e.g. heads, tails, internal organs) into
liquified protein using an enzymatic digestive process developed by the
Jiangsu Freshwater Fishery Research Institute. Granular feed formulation
would also require 3,600 t of wheat, maize, and grain products all
certified available by the county government. The product reportedly
achieves a 42% protein content (at minimal cost), retains fixed shape in
water for four to six hours (important in efficient feeding and reducing
pond pollution), and permits a 3.1:1 feed oonversion ratio as opposed to
the approximate 5:1 ratio now experienced with conventional local feeds.
Prolect Rationale:
The product would be extremely cheap at the proposed sale price of
Yl,200/t (versus Yl,300-Yl,500/t for conventional feeds) because it
substitutes local fish and shrimp waste for imported animal protein,
mainly fishmeal. The plant is only 5 km from the source of the marine
waste (a seafood processing plant) and 8 km from a major pond complex, so
transport costs are minimal. Removing the waste, which is now dumped near
the source plant, would be environmentally beneficial. Regarding shrimp
production effects, controlled tests on 100 ha of ponds showed an increase
in yields of 17 percent (from 2.1 to 2.48 t/ha), with an increase in
average shrimp size from 11.0 cm to 12.24 cm, with 63 percent of the
output above the local 12 cm export cutoff.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject II. Bei Da II Shrimp Feed Production
Scale of production:      10,000 t per yr shrimp feed
Total Cost:               Y 3.75 m (US$1,013,000)
Bank Group Funding:       US$500,000
Commercial Sponsor:       Haimeng County Feed Factory, Nantong City
Technical Sponsor:        Beijing University Chemistry Department
Project Description:
The project would involve the upgrading of a large animal feed
plant and the introduction of shrimp feed production based on a
proprietary formula recently developed by the Chemistry Department of
Beijing University (Bei Da) under a grant from the China National Natural
Science Fund. The remodeled plant would produce 10,000 t of shrimp feed
during the main shrimp growth season (May - October) and about 10,000 t of
poultry and pig feed during the rest of the year. Beijing University,
which is selling the formula and production technology to the firm for
Y200,000, would also provide the proprietary essences and binders during
production.
Project Rationale:
The product is not as obviously economically attractive as that
proposed by the Yancheng Fish Feed Factory; its costs are substantially
higher as it is conventionally based on imported fish meal and binder for
its animal protein content; the product's protein content is lower (35%),
indeed only marginally acceptable; it guarantees a fixed shape in water
for only two hours; and its tested feed conversion ratio is slightly
higher (3.25:1) although still a marked improvement over conventional
feeds. However, perhaps due to growth stimulants incorporated in the
formula, tests of the product in Shandong province were highly successful,
with an 18 percent increase in shrimp growth, a doubling of export grade
volume, a 22 percent reduction in cost of shrimp production, and low water
contamination (resulting in lower mortality of young shrimp in hot
weather).



- 56 -
AMnE 2
Pagg 3
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject III. Wink Feed Produ¢tion
Scale of production:         5,000 t per yr mink feed
Total Cost:                  Y 1.99 m (US$539,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$200,000
Commercial Sponsor:          Chendong Town, Ganyu County, Lianyungang
Municipality
Technical Sponsor:           Nanjing Institute of Grain Economy
Proiect DescriRtion:
The project would involve construction of a new mink feed mill
which would formulate a feed predominantly based on vegetable protein,
developed by the Nanjing Institute of Grain Economy. The formula
substitutes accessible extruded plant protein (derived from soybean,
peanut and corn gluten meal) for a substantial amount of the raw animal
protein (fish and meat) conventionally fed to mink, although one-third of
the feed protein content would still be derived from animal sources (fish
meal, meat scrap, blood meal). Seven different feed formulae will be
produced for various mink life cycle phases.
Project Rationale:
The boom in mink breeding in this coastal county is rapidly
exhausting available supplies of trash fish and crustaceans, which are
also endangered due to overfishing. Mink farmers increasingly have had to
purchase food-grade seafood, which increases their cost of production
markedly, or feed minks raw grain, which reduces pelt quality.
Availability of cheap and effective feed is now the constraint on
profitability and planned expansion of mink farming in the region.
Intensive tests of the product commenced with 640 kits from which 8 males
and 32 females were selected to breed a second generation. A slight
decrease in pelt size was observed, but no reduction in pelt quality
occurred, mortality was reduced, production costs diminished by 35
percent, labor productivity increased several times (due to elimination of
effort in obtaining raw feed, minerals, drugs, etc. separately), and net
revenue per pelt increased by 75 percent. The feed is now being satis-
factorily used on 20,000 minks, 20 percent of the total county stock in
1986.



- 57 -
AN-IXa
Page 4
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELPNERT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject IV: Raneseed Processing Plant
Scale of production:         10,800 t decolloid edible oil and 16,000 t
detoxified rapeseed meal (50% protein
content) per yr /1
Total Cost:                  Y 9,800,000 (US$2,649,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$1,500,000
Comercial Sponsor:           Hualyang County Oil Processing Company
Technical Sponsor:           Jiangsu Technology Research and Development
Institute/University of Toronto, Department
of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry
Project Descrigtion:
Rebuilding of existing oilseed mill to embody state of the art
Canadian patented technology in association with Jiangsu Technology
Research and Development Institute to detoxify rapeseed meal and improve
quality (through colloid removal) and extraction rate (from 32% to 36-38%)
of edible rapeseed oil. Throughput of the mill would be tripled and
output in value terms would be increased initially six-fold and eventually
nine fold. The process would involve introduction to China of
methano-avmonia and water-hexane two-way extraction and supermembrane
filtration technology to remove glucosinolate toxins, in its first phase.
In the second phase, new techniques to produce isolated and soluble
proteins from rapeseed meal would be introduced. Glucosinolate content
would be reduced from 18 mg/g in raw Chinese rapeseed to 0.4 mg/g in the
meal product. The project provides for a three to six month study term by
four experts to Toronto.
Project Rationale:
Rape is the main oil crop of Jiangsu province and one of the major
sources of edible oil in China. Classical oil pressing technology gives
low recovery, poor quality oil, and a high proportion of cake with a
toxicity level that makes it unsafe as an animal feed, despitR its high
(45*% protein content. About 85 percent of the rapeseed cake in Jiangsu
must, therefore, be used as organic manure, with major negative impacts on
feed availability, the economics of rapeseed production in general, and
the derived economics of rapeseed oil production. These problems exist
with the crop in varying degrees of severity throughout China. The
removal of glucosinolate toxins is thus the most important technological
problem in the feed industry of Jiangsu, indeed, of China. The economic
benefits of this project, if successful, for Huaiyang County (producer of
35 percent of Jiangsu's rapeseed), 'iangsu province, and the nation, go
far beyond the financial benefits of erecting the plant.
/1 Later to be converted to 11,800 t detoxified rapeseed meal (33%
protein content), 2,240 t of separated protein, and 1,920 t of soluble
protein.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject V: Sesbania Development and Processing
Scale of production:         300 ha of seed fields and 13,300 ha of new
varieties of sesbania (planted on newly
reclaimed tidelands); 2,000 t per yr gum
(glue) powder
Total Cost:                  Y 7,280,000 (US$1,968,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$980,000
Commercial Sponsor:          Jiangsu Coastal Area Agricultural Science
Institute (Xinyang Station)
Technical Sponsor:           Botanical Research Institute, China Academy
of Agricultural Sciences/Beijing Mining and
Metallurgy Research Institute
Proiect Description:
Sesbania has long been used as a pioneer crop to reclaim highly
saline, newly enclosed tidelands. It is a highly salt tolerant,
nitrogen-fixing legume with obvious advantages as a soil improver and as a
green manure in crop rotation. Commencing in 1973, its seeds have been
collected in China to produce a gum (glue) powder to replace imported guar
glue in an increasing variety of uses. The project would include
development of a seed production base to multiply improved varieties
recently developed by the commercial sponsor (as part of a national
research project); plantings in five coastal counties; expansion of an
existing gum powder factory based on improved technology; and research to
develop varieties with further improvements in nitrogen fixing capability
and gum characteristics closer to those of guar.
Project Rationale:
Sesbania glue (domestic price of Y5,100/t) is increasingly being
used in China to replace guar glue (Y13,00/t) as the hydraulic fracturing
jelly in petroleum wells, the slurry blasting medium in mining explosives,
a mineral concentration flocculant, and in ceramics, paper, battery
production, and dyeing. The gum production technology to be employed was
developed by a series of petroleum and mining research institutes.
National demand from the petroleum and mining industries alone is
reportedly 5,000 t per year, while domestic production is 3,000 t. The
project is intended to fill that expanding gap while simultaneously
improving product quality and substitution ability. The planting program
is probably entirely justified in terms of accelerating improvement of
newly enclosed tidelands (over natural salt leaching), after which
planting bases would gradually shift to other fallow lands.



- 59 .
Paige 6
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVEWPM!ENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject VI: Barley and Halt DeveloDment and Processing
Scale of production:         130 ha of seed fields, 4,300 ha of production
fields (to supply 14,000 t beer barley), and
new 10,000 t per yr malt plant
Total Cost:                  Y 4,393,000 (US$1,190,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$590,000
Commercial Sponsor:          Bianchang Township, Yancheng Municipality
Technical Sponsor:           Jiangsu Coastal Area Agricultural Science
Institute (Barley Research Section)
Project Description:
The project would a) create a production base to increase output of
a field-proven, relatively superior beer barley developed by the technical
sponsor; b) construct a malt plant with modified technology to produce
basic brewery material of high standard; and c) fund a research program by
the technical sponsor to further improve malt quality (particularly
germination and milling rates) through breeding of improved barley
varieties.
Project Rationale:
The project, developed under the SPARK program, appears highly
financially profitable and the rationale from the township point of view
is obviously to obtain value added from its established traditional barley
industry (barley is a cotton intercrop) and employ 130 redundant farm
laborers. National beer consumption (4 kg/capita) has increased ten-fold
since 1978, is still increasing at over 10 percent per year, and is widely
seen as a symbol of expanding satisfaction of consumer preferences,
although it is still only one-sixth of the world average. Due to domestic
supply and quality deficiencies, however, one-third (500,000 t) of the
beer barley requirement is now imported. The project would, thus, also
serve an import substitution function. It is also probably well-located,
in a coastal region which already serves as the main domestic source of
beer barley; in a municipality with 20 existing malt plants; and with a
technical sponsor with 30 years experience in barley (including malt
varieties) breeding and agronomy. The combination of factors may
eventually produce the capability to supply a world-class malt to domestic
breweries.



- 60 -
AMnE 2
Page 7
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject VII: Dvelogment of Serology Test Kits for Plant and Animal
DiseAsesi
Scale of production:         16,000 animal test kits and 3,500 plant kits
per yr
Total Cost:                  Y 1,860,000 (US$501,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$250,000
Commercial Sponsor:          Nanjing Agricultural University
Technical Sponsor:           Nanjing Agricultural University
Pro1ect Descriptio:
The project aims to develop serology test kits for accurate and
fast identification of animal and plant diseases particularly viruses.
This would be achieved through the introduction of new techniques and
modern equipment and would result in production of test kits which are
specific for Chinese pathogenic strains and cheaper than the imported
ones. In addition, the test kits would help in early identification of
causal agents of plant and animal diseases prior to their assuming
epidemic proportions. The process depends on injecting healthy animals
with purified proteins of pathological organisms to be tested.
Subsequently, the animals would develop specific antibodies to the
pathogen under consideration and following specific incubation periods for
each pathogen, the animal's blood serum would be processed and purified.
The purified serum would be mixed at known concentrations with proteins of
the specific animal or plant pathogen under question. If the mixture
coagulates, this would indicate the presence of the specific plant or
animal pathoL,n use" frl dvio-14j.-g tha serur. Rentt'ly, C1.ha --d th-
Federal Republic of Germany have established technical cooperation which
includes research, development and training programs between the two
countries. Provision of equipment, reagents and training will be the main
subproject components. Test kits would be mainly used by extension agents
and other research organizations following special training programs.
Project Rationale:
Early, fast and accurate diagnosis of animal and plant disease is
becoming increasingly important in improving animal and plant
productivity. Therefore, the use of serology testing and its
commercialization is important to modernizing China's agriculture and
animal development programs. Nanjing Agricultural University has
successfully developed test kits for diagnosis of swine fever, duck virus
hepatitis, dairy tuberculosis and Newcastle disease. Because of the
speciality of these procedures and the need to refine production methods,
the University will be involved in the pilot production phase of the test
kits which may in the future be produced commercially by specialized
firms.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Pare 8
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Technology Development Component
Subproject VIII:  Improvement of AsRaragus Production and Processing
Scale of production:         Planting of 1,000 ha of improved asparagus
and processing of 4,000 t per year
Total Cost:                  Y 4,632,000 (US$1,248,000)
Bank Group Funding:          US$600,000
Commercial Sponsor:          Ganyu County Collective Store and
Agricultural Bureau of Lianyungang City
Technical Sponsor:           Jiangsu Agricultural Science Academy (JASA)
Project Descrintion:
1) Varietal improvement: Asparagus is a dioecious plant, i.e.
separate male and female plants are produced with a ratio of 1:1. Yields
of male plants are usrully higher than female ones (about 20-30%),
depending on the variety, and spears of male plants are more succulent.
To develop improved male varieties, JASA is proposing to use modern
agricultural biotechnology procedures in anther (pollen grain) culture to
produce haploid plants (one set of chromosomes). Treatment of haploid
plants (X or Y) with specific chemicals (e.g. colchicine) will result in
production of diploid fertile supermale plants (YY) and female ones (XX)
which could be multiplied to produce improved breeding lines. Upon
crossing of the homozygous male and female breeding lines, heterozygous
male hybrids will be developed and screened for high yields, disease
resistance and processing quality.
2) Processing development: Modern technology of quick freezing and
canriiug of &aparagus will be introduced. In addition, new technology to
utilize waste during processing and plant tops to produce other
byproducts, e.g. juice, royal jelly and powder, will be experimented with
to assess their commercial feasibility. Total designed capacity of the
proposed processing facilities would be 4,000 t per year for frozen, fresh
and canned asparagus.
Project Rationale:
To increase foreign exchange earnings, production and processing in
Jiangsu Province should be improved by introducing new high-yielding
varieties and modern processing facilities. JASA has recently launched an
asparagus improvement program using modern biotechnology techniques to
produce hybrid varieties. To capitalize on increased yields, this has to
be coupled with efficient processing technology in fast freezing, canning
and other methods. The proposed asparagus breeding and processing
programs to refine production methods are feasible and in line with
China's goals to modernize agricultural production methods. However,
additional research is needed to prove the commercialization of some of
the products envisaged under the proposed subproject.



-62 -                                                ANNEX 3
Table i
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DVZLOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY - JtAWSU
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total   FE
(Y million)             (US$ million)    X
A. MARICULTURE
1. Shrimp
a.  Production                152.27  65.26 217.53    41.04  17.59  58.63   30
b.  Support facilities         14.58  27.07  41.65      3.93   7.30  11.23   65
c.  Vehicles 6 equipment        1.28  11.51  12.79      0.34   3.10   3.45   90
4.  Training and TS             0.42   0.28   0.70      0.11   0.08   0.19   40
f.  Production materials        4.69  14.07  18.77      1.26   3.79   5.06   75
Subtotal                  173.24 118.19 291.43    46.69  31.86  78.55
2. Eel
a.  Production                 27.94  11.97  39.92      7.53   3.23  10.76   30
b.  Support facilities          2.08   3.87   5.95      0.56   1.04   1.60   65
c.  Vehicles & equipment        0.28   2.55   2.83      0.08   0.69   0.76   90
d.  Training and TS             0.12   0.$S   0.20      0.03   0.02   0.05   40
f.  Production materials        2.75   8.25  11.00      0.74   2.22   2.97   75
Subtotal                   33.18  26.72  59.90      8.94   7.20  16.15
3. Laver
a.  Production                  8.89   3.81  12.70      2.40   1.03   3.42   30
b.  Support facilities          0.39   0.72   1.10      0.10   0.19   0.30   65
a. Vehicles & equipment         0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   90
d.  Training and TS             0.10   0.07   0.17      0.03   0.02   0.05   40
f.  Production materials        0.19   0.57   0.76      0.05   0.15   0.20   75
Subtotal                    9.57   5.16  14.73      2.58   1.39   3.97
B. AGRICULTURE
a.  Plantation establlshment  15.81   6.78  22.59       4.26   1.83   6.09   30
b. Processing & cold stores   7.62  14.15  21.77        2.05   3.81   5.87   65
a.  Vehicles & equipment        0.04   0.37   0.41      0.01   0.10   0.11   90
d.  Training and TS             0.03   0.02   0.06      0.01   0.01   0.02   40
Subtotal                   23.50  21.32  44.82      6.34   5.75  12.08
C. ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
1. Animal Production
a.  Breoding stock              5.54   4.53  10.06      1.49   1.22   2.71   45
b.  Support facilities          3.41   7.97  11.38      0.92   2.15   3.07   70
c.  VehLeles & equipment        4.30   2.74   3.05      0.08   0.74   0.82   90
d.  Training and TS             0.84   0.56   1.40      0.23   0.15   0.38   40
e.  On-farm works               5.26  12.27  17.53      1.42   3.31   4.72   70
f.  Lab equipment               0.47   1.10   1.57      0.13   0.30   0.42   70
2.  Processing facilities        15.06  27.96  43.02      4.06   7.54  11.59   65
6ubtotal                   30.88  57.12  88.00      8.32  15.40  23.72
D.  AGRICULTURE TECH DEVELOPMENT    14.86  18.36  33.22       4.01   4.95   8.96   60
Base Cost                     285.23 246.88 532.11    16.88  66.54 143.42   46
Physlcal Contingencies         24.79  21.46  46.24      6.68   5.78  12.46   46
Price Contlngencies            37.57  32.52  70.09      1.52   1.32   2.84   46
Total Project Cost            347.58 300.85 648.44    85.08  73.64 158.73   46



-63 -                                                ANNE 3
Tcale 2
CHENA
COA8TAL LAND8 DSEVLOPHER  PROJBC
PROJECS 0OST SUMOARY - Z8EJlAN0
Local Forelgn Total    Local Foreign Total   FB
(Y mililon)            (US8 Million)    I
A. SHRIWM
1.Da Mu Tu
a.  Seadikes                   10.21  18.97  29.18      2.75   5.11   7.86   65
b.  Pond Construction           8.30   3.56  11.66      2.24   0.96   3.20   30
e.  Support facliltles          3.60   6.69  10.29      0.97   1.80   2.77   65
d.  Vehleles and equlpment      0.50   4.46   4.96      0.13   1.20   1.34   90
e.  Training and TA             0.44   0.29   0.74      0.12   0.08   0.20   40
f.  Production materlals        0.51   1.54   2.05      0.14   0.41   0.55   75
Subtotal                   23.56  35.50  59.07      6.35   9.57  15.92
2.Raomen
a.  Seadikes                    0.44   0.82   1.26      0.12   0.22   0.34   65
b.  Pond Construction           4.11   1.76   5.87      1.11   0.47   1.58   30
a. Support faoLlitLes           1.75   3.25   5.00      0.47   0.88   1.35   65
d.  Vehicles and equipment      0.09   0.82   0.91      0.02   0.22   0.25   90
e.  Training and TA             0.19   0.12   0.31      0.05   0.03   0.08   40
f. ProductLon materials         0.30   0.90   1.20      0.08   0.24   0.32   75
Subtotal                    6.88   7.67  14.55      1.85   2.07   3.92
NILY ENCLOSED TIDELANDS
S. Ding 8han
a.  Seadikes                    1.59   2.96   4.55      0.43   0.80   1.23   65
b.  Pond Construction           3.71   1.59   5.31      1.00   0.43   1.43   30
d. Support facilities           0.50   0.93   1.43      0.13   0.25   0.38   65
d.  Vehicles and equipment      0.06   0.58   0.65      0.02   0.16   0.17   90
a.  Training and TA             0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   40
f. Production materials         0.24   0.71   0.95      0.06   0.19   0.26   75
Subtotal                    6.11   6.77  12.88      1.65   1.83   3.47
4. Shepan
a.  Seadikes                    1.52   2.83   4.35      0.41   0.76   1.17   65
b.  Pond ConstructLon           5.61   2.40   8.01      1.51   0.65   2.16   30
a.  Support facilLties          0.72   1.34   2.06      0.19   0.36   0.56   65
d.  Vehicles and equipment      0.06   0.58   0.64      0.02   0.16   0.17   90
e.  Training and TA             0.12   0.08   0.20      0.03   0.02   0.05   40
f. ProductLon materials         0.50   1.50   2.00      0.13   0.40   0.54   75
Subtotal                    8.54   8.73  17.27      2.30   2.35   4.66
5. Wumen
a.  Seadikes                    0.53   0.99   1.52      0.14   0.27   0.41   65
b.  Pond Construction           5.10   2.18   7.28      1.37   0.59   1.96   s0
c.  Support facilLties          1.48   2.74   4.22      0.40   0.74   1.14   65
d.  Vehieles and equipment      0.11   0.97   1.08      0.03   0.26   0.29   90
e.  Training and TA             0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   40
f.  Production materials        0.40   1.20   1.60      0.11   0.32   0.43   75
Subtotal                    7.61   8.08  15.70      2.05   2.18   4.23
6. Technical Service Center
a.  Buildings                   0.45   0.83   1.27      0.12   0.22   0.34   65
b. VehLeles and equipment       0.05   0.43   0.48      0.01   0.12   0.13   90
Subtotal                    0.49   1.26   1.75      0.13   0.34   0.47
B. EmL
1. All sltes combined
a.  Pond construction          43.42  18.61  62.03    11.70   5.02  16.72   30
b.  Suppost facilities          2.90   5.39   8.30      0.78   1.45   2.24   65
a.  Vehicles & equipment        0.S3   2.95   3.27      0.09   0.79   0.88   90
d.  Training and TA             0.09   0.06   0.14      0.02   0.02   0.04   40
e.  Production materials        0.73   2.18   2.90      0.20   0.59   0.78   75
Subtotal                   47.47  29.18  76.65    12.79   7.87  20.66
Base Cost                     100.66  97.21 197.87    27.13  26.20  53.33   49
Physical Contingencies          6.97   6.73  13.70      1.88   1.61   3.69   49
Priee Contingencies            14.10  13.61  27.71      0.65   0.63   1.27   49
Total Project Cost            121.73 117.55 239.28    29.66  28.64  58.30   49



-64 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 3
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule (Yuan million)
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992    Total
JIANGSU
Shrimp Development              58.29   116.57    87.43    29.14       0.00   291.43
Eel Development                 11.98    23.96    17.97      5.99      0.00    59.90
Laver Development                2.95      5.89     4.42     1.47      0.00    14.73
Agricultural Development
Fruit Development                6.09    12.18      9.13     3.04      0.00    30.45
Nut Development                  2.87      5.75     4.31      1.44     0.00    14.37
Animal Husbandry                17.60    35.20    26.40      8.80      0.00    88.00
Agriculture Technology Dev.      6.64    13.29      9.97      3.32     0.00    33.22
Base Cost                    106.42   212.84   159.63    53.21       0.00   532.11
Physical Contingencies         9.25    18.50    13.87      4.62      0.00    46.24
Price Contingencies            3.76    23.04    29.68    13.60       0.00    70.09
Total Cost                   119.43   254.38   203.19    71.43       0.00   648.44
ZHEJIANG
Damutu                          11.81    11.81    17.72    11.81       5.91    59.07
Kaomen                           2.91      5.82     4.37     1.46      0.00    14.55
Newly Enclosed Tidelands         9.52    19.04    14.28      4.76      0.00    47.60
Eel Development                 15.33    30.66    22.99      7.66      0.00    76.65
Base Cost                     39.57    67.33    59.36    25.69       5.91   197.87
PhysicalContingencies          2.74    *4.66      4.11     1.78     0.41    13.70
Price Contingencies            1.38     7.16    10.86      6.47      1.85    27.71
Total Cost                    43.69    79.16    74.33    33.94       8.16   239.28
GRAND TOTAL                    163.12   333.54   277.52   105.37       8.16   887.71



-65-                                  ANNEX 3
Table4
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992    Total
JIANGSU
Base Cost (Y million)           106.4    212.8    159.6      53.2       0.0    532.1
Physical Contingency              9.2      18.5     13.9      4.6       0.0     46.2
Annual Escalation Rate          0.065    0.065    0.065    0.045    0.045
Price contingency multiplier    0.03      0.10      0.17     0.24      0.29
Expected price increase           3.8      23.0     29.7     13.6       0.0     70.1
Total project cost (Y m)      119.4    254.4    203.2      71.4       0.0    648.4
Base Cost (US$ million)          28.7      57.4     43.0     14.3       0.0    143.4
Physical Contingency              2.5       5.0      3.7      1.2       0.0     12.5
Annual Escalation Rate           0.01      0.01     0.01     0.04      0.04
Price contingency multiplier    0.01      0.02      0.03     0.05      0.09
Expected price increase           0.2       0.9      1.2      0.8       0.0      3.0
Total project cost (US$ m)    31.3      63.3      47.9     16.3       0.0    158.9
ZHEJIANG
Base Cost (Y million)            39.6      67.3     59.4     25.7       5.9    197.9
Physical Contingency              2.7      4.7       4.1      1.8       0.4     13.7
Annual Escalation Rate          0.065    0.065    0.065    0.045    0.045
Price contingency multiplier    0.03      0.10      0.17     0.24      0.29
Expected price increase           1.4       7.2     10.9      6.5       1.8     27.7
Total project cost (Y a)       43.7     79.2      74.3     33.9       8.2    239.3
Base Cost (US$ million)          10.7     18.1      16.0      6.9       1.6     53.3
Physical Contingency              0.7       1.3      1.1      0.5       0.1      3.7
Annual Escalation Rate           0.01      0.01     0.01     0.04      0.04
Price contingency multiplier    0.01      0.02      0.03     0.05      0.09
Expected price increase           0.1      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.1      1.3
Total project cost (US$ a)    11.5      19.7      17.5      7.8       1.8     58.3



- 66 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD/IDA               Disbursements                    Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year/    Semestral   Cumulative   Cumulative         Year/          (%)
Semester        - - (US$ million) - -            (8)      Semester
1989                                                    Year 1
1st                12.0         12.0           12       1st                    0
2nd                 7.0         19.0           19       2nd                  5.4
1990                                                    Year 2
1st                 8.5         27.5           28       1st
2nd                11.0         38.5           39       2nd                 29.2
1991                                                    Year 3
1st                13.0         51.5           52       1st
2nd                15.0         66.5           67       2nd                 61.2
1992                                                    Year 4
1st                12.0         78.5           79       1st
2nd                12.5         91.0           91       2nd                 91.0
1993                                                    Year 5
lst                 6.0         97.0           97       1st
2nd                 3.0        100.0          100       2nd                100.0
/a Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans
Completion date: December 31, 1992
Closing date:     June 30, 1993



co=
a>RW -                           n_Wr  
-_   z      ssno -  r   -* _S        -      w    M  )
__ Ctumatma (390 m  a 3m   )             amt1aI (saw mauat M_ 4         ha).?SIL) -a1
I.         ~                         .3          2.38  28,2s 78_110   91,023,2           2.29   16,21,500   33,=,S         13 20,3143    13,3,2143
2.      SWE a   1w                   no         16*.01     30,1O       481,91M          17.95       22,0OO      396,90D        7s6l,891       87689
S.      NO        .TW AN  MM=                                                                                               5,518,440      5.58,440
Oumts                      .         10,190       1,86   18,830,000           5,a603         977    5,474,440     24,30,44D
5t Gets*                   oh       U225,89          21       s 9ffss,m     33 ,33                  2370000   a ,wos,aw
pwwft  statum       set       6s,88        203.4   13,993,000         75,726         324    9,390,000      23,305,000
)Oa.LAMM                   am        ,ooo             I  e 2s,00             00.00             1      200,00         U5,000 9
Now a-MM                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,352,700  13.0
ova1t7 Qmmsm om            "           10.5     109,900    1,7,160             13.0      117,730    1,530,300      3322,6
glib  bLto  LUr            In      14,363.4      102.10    1,466,00        12,3.4          50.40      652,0        2,19,300
I.e VLtor Lim              Ia       7,912.3      107.3   ' 47,80            71,9.0         73.25   583,0OD.0       1, 43,8
"-ftatiou       _     *     t.     43263.6           4     1,,000          21,217.6          17       3,e000       2,26700
).UAMu                              193,000           1      19,e000       2000.0              1       20,000       W2I30
S.    Ph gm                          l6,7*g         111    l,ess,sw         Ls,esl.w        nS        s^2,eo       273,M70       5,m,700
stop". Tiaf               Ia         16,749         iii    1,863,63        13,033.7        73.8       962,6        2.63,600
MUWD                       S"        26,660         n7       M ,093,30     19,502.9          41       32,900       2,-89Ian0
6.      u~~E:mmhalI.ltJmm                      S0,CIO           1       30,00             0.0            1           a          Soo,
dao&tU* OLL   Oa           1n       14 ,10    2,250,400          146.1        4,420      GO5I6        2,896,000
D dlUU                     %a           1s       22,305    3,38,0             155.3        2,M0       345,200      3,9n1,4o
91s11M ,gM                  -       42,400            1      49,400                            10                    4240
7.- ~ .             a                mm          14.32          1   20,806,M2             7.52           1    4,56,847      25.33659 2,3n,59
S.      MD=                                       2.53          1    3,650,318            2.5S           1                   3, 949  5,179,237  5,179,37
9.      %Uhm                         2m .51                     1    3,650,318            2.51           1    1,33,949       5.179,267      5,179,267
in.  Vm .rrzu                                                                                                                                s,el2,910
1.      FMM           (lWto. me. 2s,000 t)                                                                                   3.295 eeo   322ss'0w o
bAidus                    la           2in        5,40    12016,000           17.8         3,500    1 1033,000     209,e000                           *s
*dP=M              Oa~m     20,667            6    1.240,63       147,310,,o                               2.w,oam
mLaciAlIma                 am       225,000           1      225,000        314,000           1       314,000       589,000
2.      ab sze  (141tat. a. 3,300 t)                                                                                 0      2s8,56,400     26,656,400
bM1d1mb.                  UR            577      18,990   10,30,10             513         6,42b    3,291,300     14,215,400
B*dP-                      am     s,5,00w            1    5,7,000         4,059,700           1    4,059,700       9,794,700
PUmmllarAw                 am     2,460,000           1    2,40,000         3Bs,300           1       35,300       2,5,3300
3.     suo 3                                                                                                                 4,407,800      4,407,800
3a*1 6                     .3           615       3,400    2,090,000            145        2,224      3n,aoo       1,4no11,
sodpMoom                   Wm     1,46,000            1    1,46"6000        140,00              1140,00            1606,O
MISUaaUMma                 am       390,0o0           1      390,000             0            1            0        390000
4.  ?~~U60Z~,   Vz  a                                                                                                  3,104,300      3,104,20
&UjdIugp                  .e            218       6,740    1,467,600         1S,700           1       14,700       1,404,30w
Xrntzu.n~s  m        776,000          1       776,0010                                      0        776,000
am        43 seo          1         3,900                                       0        843,30S
S.     ~     .       ~               am          10.02          1    2,86,40             10.0e          1    1.1023,80       3,966,340      3,96,340
0. T        1                        am           2.5S          1      715,865            1.ss          1       275,720        991,5          9,58
7.  _TA                              am           2.52          1      715M S5            2.32          1       275,720       991,505        991,2
InI.         I C2301=  &   1 r                                                                                                21,787,00     11,787,000
mt -r            _                   35,s7          50    1,78s3,           335,0            41    1,428,0O       3.2420,60
4? hfrtgMMd Tz*,          #         103,707         14    1,451,900         90,000            4      20,000       1,D01,90o
_%w                       _eb       38,175          20       76,500            60             8      3W,200       1,123,70
W460A eat                             1,430        349       49,900            93           243      33,000         726,908
Szmaga                    e           4,174        IN        542,600         4,004           74      296,300    118,90o
aecmton                   esch        2,846       1,300    3,70oo,o 00                                            3,700,000
lS   an                    am     1,89,000           1    1,04,0.           s3o5ooo           1      305,0o0      1,34A,000
n w.       &    5G4. mIWv=                                                                                                                                                                S  !
ilftiu                    sa        33,0o0           1       323,8100       345,000           1      345,00 0D9 W7
l33L",10,730                             87,017,6W      30,7W8,376     =.W,37,6



- 68 -                                       A    3
Table 7
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOUT0? PJROC?
Cost Zatiatt  - Jiansu Bol Fe= Dewelop.eat (Yusa)
NeM Construction              SWONry
Unit Prce    Quentity        coxmt          Amount
I.  POND CONSTRUCTI0N (490 mu or 32.7 ha)                                                  12,066,950
1.      EARTEWONS                      Ms           2.76      342,500       947,000         947,000
2.      BL4PB PROTECTION                           16.11      166,300     2,678,700       2,678,700
.       VATER SUPPLY AND DRAiRhU                                                          1,69,000
Culverts                               969.88          247       244,500
Canal Gates                 Oeah      400,000            1       400,000
Pumpnog Stations             Wels     404,800            1       404,600
miscelleeou                 sum       649,700            1       649,700
4.      lOVER SUPPLY                                                                      1,639,100
Cepacity Inrease Charge    MVA             14       31,300       446,200
Nigh Voltage LinM           km         15,016        30.90       464,000
Low Voltage Line            km          8,66         40.40       $50,900
Sub-Statins                 each       16,611           19       353,600
Miscellneous                sum        24,400            1        24,400
S.      ACCZSS                                                                             626,500
Simple Rods                 km         17,529           31       551,300
Brldges                     each       18,000            3        54,000
Hscoellanecus               sum        21,200            1        21,200
6.      BUILDSNC8                                                                        2,902,700
Production vaculities       m             184        8,582     1,574,900
Dwellngs                    12            156        7,095     1,117,400
Micellaneous               sum       210,400            1       210,400
7.      PYSICAL CONTINGENCY            sum            102           1    1,049,300       1,049,300
S.      PROJECT DEmlG"                 sum           2.5X           1       262,325        242,325
9.      MANAHEA Y                      am            2.5X           1      262,325         262,325
It. ZNCLOSED EEL PonDS (87,000 ma2)                                                       31,649,495
1.      CIVSL wOwES                    .2            123       67,000    10,666,100     10,666,100
2.      SUPESTRUCTURE                  M2             58      108,200     6,314,400      6,314,400
3.      ECUgPNgaf                                                                       10,520,800
Aerators                    each        1,390        1,460     2,028,800
Deep Wells                  each      121,250           32    3,880,000
ailers                      *eah      116,960           25    2,924,000
Electric Generators          eh        54,000           28    1,512,000
Miscellaneous               SuM       176,000            1       176,000
4.      PHYSICAL CONTINENlCY           SuM            102           1    2,752,130       2,752,130
5.      PROJECT DES14                  aim           2.5X           1      668,033         688,033
6.      MlNffuNT                       sum           2.52           1      688,033         688,033
IIS. SUPPORT FACSLSTSS                                                                     6,517,050
1.      PE1ICLKL                                                                         5,579,000
Buildiags                   12            184        4,810       666,000
EquIpment                   sets   1,998,000             1    1,996,000
Miscellaneous               sum    2,695,000             1    2,695,000
2.      TECIDOLOOICAL SmVCE CENTRES                                                         88,000
Suildings                   02            200          100        20,000
Equippnnt A Instruments     sum        58,000            1        58,000
iscelleussum                           10,000            1        10,000
3.      PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY           sum            lOX           1      566,700         566,700
4.      PROJECT DEBIGN                 sum           2.52           1      141,675         141,675
5.      HANAGUNMT                      sum           2.52           1      141,675         141,675
IV. PROMDCTIN VEHICLESS E& UThUIT                                                          2,831,600
5ST TSrucks                 each       40,936           26    1,064,400
4S Refrigerated trucks      each      121,440            5       607,200
Jeps                        each       41,141           17       699,400
Uorkb@ats                   eah        5,000            2        10,000
Tractors                    eah         4,157           23        95,600
tiscell aeous               sum       355,000            1       355,000
V. TRANING & TSECHNICAL SERVICE          um       204,600            1      204,600         204,600
VI. MSCELUANEOUS                         sum     2,574,600            1    2,574,800       2,574,800
VII. PRODUCTION MATERIALS                sum    8,429,100             1    8,429,100       6,429,100
--_-----_-_.-----_---_-_---_-----64,--3,59----64,273,59--
64,2?3,593     64,273,595



- 69 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 8
COASAL LANDS DVYRLCoIENM PROJECT
Cost stimte - Jinagu Lover Development (Yuai)
Wev Conatuctlion (4100 mu or 273.3 ha)    Sumary
Unit Price   QUantIty      Amwunt         Am@unt
I C cULTVATIC FACnLITIEs                                                              13,938,000
1. CULTUI IRAmS                     mau          700        4,100    2,870,000
2. PRCSgSSING EQUPM8NS              sets      328,947         19    6,250,000
S. AUTLIAN! BQUIPMENT               icts      272,727         11    3,000,000
4. PEYSICAL CONTIRENCEIES           sum        10.002          1    1,212,000
5. PRJECT DESIGN                    suM         2.502          1       303,000
6. )WNIXAENT                        sum         2.501          1       303,000
IZ. SUPPOIS FACILITIES                                                                  1,175,760
1. ECBRIES AND 1RT8U SNELTEIS
C.VlV Works                 m2           250       3,600      900,000
viapment                              75,600           1       75,600
.soallUaneous               sum       46,800           1        46,800
2. PHSTICAL CONTIRMEICIES           SUD        10.00          1       102,240
S. PROJECT DESID                    sum         2.50X          1        25,560
4. 14AEAOMNT                        sum         2.50          1        25,560
Ill. TRANIJG AND TECUIICAL SERVICE       sum      169,500           1       169,500        169,500
Iv. PRODUCTION MATERIALS                sum      758,700           1  |   758,700         758,700
16,041,960     16,041,960
TOTA^L



a'4
Out    nommQ -     w
-. -mt                       -                    -                                                    .ai
oa-                                        -.ah                                       &dmdav                          Siz
Ikit htim    QManLt        A'ni           Ikit Pz10m    Qimityr       Amutid tm    QiAaity                      AWMAut
I.  M         3U hE.InIX                                                  3,m,s60                                   6,310,467                                  2,191,000       1±,559,W
1.      :mim                                                                                                                                                                  1,122,480
cS                           as          0.40    9sa,ao        384,480
l-m                          e                                                     1.40      210,000      294,00
AN"*                                                                                                                          0.50      8O5,000      m,s51
FmW                                                                                                                           0.50      270,000      135,000
2." C=LS                     -0.30                                                                                                       75,000       22,50D
2.      ciYN. t                                                                                                                                                               s'0,m,as
Izzisatlm                   MO                                                     36.9       28,646      6ff,417
Pfuja awl?
9 lirA.                     In                                                  15,300         32.5      497,250
&WgP-tft  9g                am                                                   4,100           28      114,800
alim                        an                                                   i,000          178      17
Omwx. _  _zt                            5.00     347,100    1,735,500
wIt                                     2.10     279,714      58,400
3.       ,                                                               106,800              400       875.00      330,000              40           No       360,0DD          6,80o
A.      LAMMU44,1810                                                                          3.5      O66,0       3,000                 2.5      30,00        750,000        3,US,Z00
5.      mms
I-                                                                                                                          1,OOD         4U0       400,0o           400,000
6.       a     iE n I_OO,oo                                                                                         250,000                                     35,000          385,000
7.           CL s             m                                                           100.0              9      900,000                                                     o0,000
S.   81CS. -                                                                                                                                                   119,o00          196,o0o
IL.  Ei       I Am W                                                     9,275,06                                   9,721,200                                  1,452,000      20,459,46
1.     ID a                           an         6,136          22       35,000          269,62          2.67      600,O0                                                      9s5,l
2.       MSau                                                             00,m00R,000 %0
S.      1M  EU       _                                                                                               34,00                                                       3o,000 
4.     IIWa                                                                                50,000            3      150,000                                                     15,000
4 mm s.WR                              an                                148000                                    2i0,000                                                       4,000
6.        1 m                          So&                              2000,000                                     66,000                                     70,000          3S5,000
7.      NM                                                             2,9,00                                     2,261,000                                    660,000        5,1,000
8.         DL                          es&                               121,500                                    230,000                                     20,000          31,300
9.      Eiug    (UM )                  sub                             1,874,80                                   3,199,200                                                   5,074,000
10.     OmDr(f  ma                      N                                  5,50                                                                                                   $5,50
11.     90         min                 mi                              SAW,0,000                                  1,70,OO                                      40,E000        5,14,500
12.     00eMOAT1                       Oak                                30,000                                                                                                 30,0
13.        S                           Om&                               =,SWO                                       85,e00 2V,1b
14.                                    md                                 50,000                                                                                                 30,000
15.           ein31T                   mdi                               100,00                                                                                                 100,000
16.        Im  O.       1                          10.01                 515,746             lO.0X                     ,40              10.01                  12,000         1,2M,a
m.
1. ZS                                                                                                                                                                           40,00
ILV.      TSAdo                          am        15,050          a       2m0,4             31,000           3        "l,o             37',n            1        37,00
'V. ~ ~    ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       . 
2m Un                                anO                               55,800                                                   _ _   _ _    _   _ _      _   _    _           5,0
12,672,76                                 16,12,747                                   3,600,200       32,436,913



COASTAL LADS DEMLO"UM PROJECT
Cost Esttnotes - Jia.g  Nut Component (Yuan)
GLnkgo                                       Chestnuts                             Totl
Unlt Price    Qwmntity       Aount           Unit Price    Quantity         Aoant               mount
I.   PLANTATIOS  ESTABLISUEENS                                                 8,830,877                                      2,397,600         11,228,477
1. SEUDLIOS                              ea           1.20      977,220     1,172,664               2.00       100,250       200,500          4,587,864
ea                                 2,913,900                                        300,800
2. GRAFTINC IATSDIAL                      ea           0.45    1,639,570        731,000                                                          731,000
3. CIVIL WORKS                            aim                                1,300,000               0.30       500,000       150,000          1,450,000
4. CHUIICAL PUTILIZ                       aiR                                1,289,000                                        970,300          2,259,300
5. CHECALS                                sum                                    41,000                                       156,000            197,000
6. LANOR                                 uday          2.50      491,325     1,223,313                                        620,000          1,848,313
7. MANAGENT S TRAINING                    sum                                  155,000                                              0            155,000
8. PHYSICAL COCTINGucIxS                                                                                                                               0
SUBTOTAL                                                                  8,830,877                                      2,397,600         11,228,477
,   rsTa SSoR^Gg (2)                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,228,477
IX.  COLD STORAGE (2)
1. CIVIL WoR
LAUD USE 331                           an          8,000           20       160,000                                                           160,000
10111 8UPpLY
Traatfowmars                    ea             195          380        74,100                                                            7*,100
UATU SUPPLY
Wells                           a           25,000            1        25,000                                                           101,000
Water Tower                     e-          70,000            1        70,000
PUpiLnS Statlon                 ea           6,000            1         6,000                                                                         _
Buwnm                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,529,200
Main baildinS                   M2             320        2,000       640,000                729           600       437,250
warehouse                       M2             162          650       105,000                128           400        51,000
Offices                         .2             200          200        40,000                150           100        15,000
Dwelli7e                        m2             120                          0                120           5O0        60,000
romvn facilLtiem,               M2                                     81,000                                         27,000
Support facilities              .2                                     33,000                                         39,950
2. IUA      IOn                                                                 21,000                                         30,000             51,000
2. NACUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                          5~~~~~~~54,000
Ammon   comressor               en          40,000            2        80,000
Amzon   compressor              e,          30,000            1        30,000
IntenAediate coolsr             ea          15,000            1        15,000
Aon1n tank                      ea          15,000            2        30,000              6,000             1         6,000
Ammon" tank                     .                                           0             15,000             1        15,000
eenla separator                 ea           8,000            1         8,000
Iiscellaneous                   ea          10,000            4        40,000
Vertical condensor              ea          10,000            2        20,000
Reinforced clamp fiber cooler   es          10,000            1        10,000
Water pump                      ea           2,500            2         5,000
Deep well pui  & pipeline       ea          12,000            1        12,000
Liquid  Lania separator         ea          10,000            1        10.000
Pipeline                         S                                     50,000            25,000              2        50,000
Preecer                         e.                                                        15,000             1        15,000
Condensor                       ea                                                        2,000              1         2,000
OL1 separator                   *-                                                        4,000              1         4,000
A  snLa separator               e-                                                         1,500             1         1,500
Air separator                   ea                                                        1,500              I         1,500
OL1 collector                   ea                                                        2,000              2         4,000
cooling fan                     ea                                                       22,000              4        88,000
Cooling tover                   ea                                                       10,000              1        10,000                        L
Coolin tools                   I&a                                                         3,000             4        12,000
PUa                             ea                                                        2,000              2         4,000                       fiji
Valves & storage doors          ea                                                                                    31,000



CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEYELOIUNT PROJECT
Cost E.timates - JLansu Nut Component (Yusn)
Ginkgo                                       Cheot  ts                             Total
Unit Price    Quantity        Amount         Unit Price    Quantity         Anount            Amount
3. ECtRICT -EXAL    nW_                                                                                                                          209,000
Transformer                    ea           38,000            1        38,000              8,000             1         8,000
Distribution panel              ea                                     77,000
scellaneus                      ea                                                                                     16,000
motors                          ea                                                        15,000             1         15,000
Transmission llne               ea                                                                                    28,000
LT control box                  ea                                                        15,000             1        15,000
Compressor panel                ea                                                        10,000             1        10,000
Water pump centrol              ea                                                         2,000             1         2,000
4. SUIPPnG                                                                                                                                        60,000
5. TOOLS                                                                         31,000                                         60,000            50,000
6. DESIGN                                                                        56,000                                        500,000           118,000
7. ADMSNISTRATIOW                                                              162,000                                          18,000           193,300
8. PHYSICAL COUTINGINCIBS                                                       100,000                                        446,400           546,400
SUBTOTAL                                                            2,029,100                                      2,022,600          3,646,000
TOTAL                                                                    10,859,977                                      4,420,200         14,874,477
I
1.)



- 73-                                            ANNEX 3
Table 11
Page 1 
C8LA
COSTL LAS DEVELOPN   PROJEC
Cost Estimte - Jiaseu Animl Husbandry Component (Yuan)
Sumary
Unit Price   Quantity       Amount         A tAmt
DUCKSIFISH                                                                                5,011,9S6
1. BRUEDIIy STOCK                                                                          37,800
Imported                      aet         3,300          10        33,000
Domestic                      *-             1        4,000         4,800
2. LAS, VETURY  TRAININ  QUINT                                                             30,000
Veteriarya equipment          sm                                   20,000
Training equipment            sum                                  10,000
S. PRODUCTION VBIICLES & MACHINY                                                          108,000
Truck                         cc         37,800           2        75,600
Diesl generator                          16,200           1        16,200
Trausformer                   ea         10,800           1        10,800
Han trator                                2,700           2         5,400
4. SUPPORT FACILITISU
Hasthery                                                                        1,076,845
Hatchery bldg.             m2             85       4,200       357,000
Dormitory                  .2             65       1,000        65,000
Poultry pe"                m2             65       2,813       182,845
Automatic breoding box     c&          6,500          21       136,500
HatckUkg box               *a          6,500          26       169,000
Misc. hatchery equlpmet   sum                                  150,000
TecbniLcl Service Station
Offices I dormitories      .2            110         1S0        16,500
5. ON-PARM WORKS                                                                         3,213,660
Pond
Pish pond renovation        ha         22,500         100    2,250,000
Water ells,toer             *          85,000           1        85,000
Paw roads                   In         10,800           3        32,400
Pumping station             cc         43,200           4       172,00
Draits                      m             270         340        91,800
Drains                      m           3240           34       110,160
Duck pe                       m2            25       18,860       471,500
6. OVERSEAS TM1, STUDY TOURS, TRCH A8SSI1S                                  90,000o90000
PMYSICAL CONTINENCIS                       0.10                   455,631         455,631
GOATS                                                                                    19,117,102
1. BRIEDSiN  STOCK                                                                      6,457,500
Femlcs                        hed        105.00      60,000     6,300,000
Males                         head       105.00       1,500       157,500
2. LAS, VETERNAY I TRUIN    EUIIPSMT                                                      987,050
Refrigerator                  c           1,080          70        75,600
Low pwer microscope           ea           850           70        59,500
Electrothemal dLstiller       c            320           70        22,400
Balane                        ea           110          140        15,400
Autoclave                     *            270          140        37,800
Mist sprayer                 *c            325           70        22,750
Parrowing appliane            so           540           70        37,800
Breeding appllnces           got          210          140        29,400
Breeding shelf                              10          140         1,400
Veterinary  pLdemic eqtipment set        11,000          35       383,000
Traintin  equlpment           sum                                 300,000
3.      PRODUCTION VEHICLES & MACHIIERY                                                 2,704,000
Truck                          .        65,000           20    1,300,000
Walking trator                cc         4,800          240    1,152,000
Straw shredding machine       ea         1,050          240       252,000
4.      SUPPORT FACILITIES
Al Stations (35)                                                                 869,900
BuLldings                  m2            1 .0      2,780       305,800
Goat pens                  .2             55       3,850       211,750
Dormitorles, offLies       m2            135       2,610       352,350
S.      ON-PAM WORKS                                                                    6,848,000
Goat pens                    m2             32      214,000    6,848,000
PMYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    0.07                  1,250,652      1,250,652



- 74-                                                ANNME 3
Table 11
CHINA                                       Page 2
COASTAL LANDS DEVLOMT PROJECT
Coat Estlmate - Jlangsu Animal Husbandry Component (Yuan)
Summary
Unit Prlce    Quantity        Amount           Amount
MINK                                                                                             9.588,502
1. BREEDING STOCK                                                                              2,600,000
Local                           head           200        7,000      1,400,000
Imported                        head          400         3,000     1,200,000
2. LAB, VETERINARY S TRAINING EQUIPMENT                                                          132,780
MiLeroscope                     ea             485            4          1,940
Balance                         ea             110            4            440
Autoelave                       ea             270            4          1,080
Refrigerator                    ea           1,080            4          4,320
DLagnostic & treatment equLpmensum         10,000             2         20,000
Training equipment              aum        20,000             1         20,000
TrainLri  materials             sum        85,000             1         85,000
3. PRODUCTION V*HICLES & MACHINERY                                                                43,200
Truck                           ea          43,200            1         43,200
4. SUPPORT FACILITIES                                                                          5,296,500
Breeding Farm
Simple sheds                 m2             25        80,000     2,000,000
Warehouse & dormLtory        m2             13S        5,000        675,000
Cages                        ea             20       125,000     2,500,000
Veterinary Statlon
Offices & dormitories        m2             135          900        121,500
5. ON-FARM WORKS
6. OVERSEAS TRG, STUDY TOURS, TECI ASSIST                                                        412,920
Technical Assistance                        47,430            4        189,720
Overseas study tours              ,        22,320            10        223,200
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                       0.130                   1,103,102       1,103,102
RABBITS                                                                                          9,074,242
1. BREEDING STOCK                                                                                168 800
Foreign                         head           223          600        133,800
Domestic                        head            35        1,000         35,000
2. LABORATORY & VETERINARY EQUIPMENT                                                             417,080
Low power microscope            ea             850           56         47,600
_alance                         ea             110           56          6,160
Autoclave                       so             270           56         15,120
Mist sprayer                    ea             325           56         18,200
Al appllances                   ea             150          200         30,000
TrainLig equipment              sum                                    300,000
3.       PRODUCTION VEHICLES S MACHINERY                                                         144,320
Truck                           ea         35,000             4        140,000
Mvmiag machines                 ea           2,160            2          4,320
4.       SUPPORT FACILITIES                                                                      184,400
Breeding Farm
Upgrading forage land        mu             20           200          4,000
Breedlig hutches             ea            110           400         44,000
Seeds                        kg             20         1,000        20,000
Foed warehouse               m2            120            60          7,200
Dormitories                  m2            120           160         19,200
Offices                      m2            150            40          6,000
AI Station (56)
Buildings                    m2             150          560        84,000
5       ON-FARM WORIS                                                                         7,466,000
Rabblt pens                     m2              85       70,000      5,950,000
Pattenlng hutch                 m2              20       75,000      1,500,000
Upgrading forage land           mu              20          800         16,000
6. OVERSEAS TRG, STUDY TOURS, TECH ASSISIs                                      100,000          100,000
PHYSICAL CONTTNGENCIES                        0.07                     593,642         593,642
MUNICIPAL TRAINING & MANAGEMENT                                                                  4,805,000
MUNICIPAL EDUCATION CENTER (YANC1ENC)
1. CImVL WORKS                                                                                 2,665,000
Classrooms                      m2             300        1,600        480,000
Offices                         m2             300        1,000        300,000
DormLtories                     m2             300        3,450     1.035,000
Other                          sun        850,000             1        850,000
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                                   1,290,000
Educatlon facilLties            sum     1,140,000             1      1,140,000
Office equipment                sum        150,000            1        150,000
3. VEHICLES                                                                                       50,000
Utility vans                    ea         25,000             2         50,000
4. TRAINING AMD TA                                                                               800,000
Personnel                       sum         30,000            1        300,000
Guest lecturers                 sun        50,000             1        500,000
47,596,781      47,596,781



ANNEX 3
- 75 -                                             able 12
CuIN                                                PaI e 1e
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMBNT PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Jiangsu AnimSl Husbmadry Agroprocesslug Component (Yuan)
Total
Unit Price   Quantity       Amount         Amount
I. GOAT SLAUGHTERHOUSE                                                                     4,023,560
1. CIVIL WORS                                                                           2,115,000
Cold store                    m2           715        1,300       930,000
Slaughter workshop            .2           275        1,600       440,000
Boller room                   m2            625         144        90,000
By-products workshop          m2           200          400        80,000
Dormitories and offices       m2           200        1,200       240,000
Sevage treatment station      m2            650         200       130,000
Miscellaneous                 sum                                  85,000
Roads and utlIlties           sum                                 120,000
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                     0      1,324,600
Slaughter productlon line     set       154,800           1       154,800
Slaughter accessory equipment  set      218,000           1       218,000
Refrigeration equipment       set       216,800           1       216,800
Refrigeration accessory equlpmeset      453,000           1       453,000
Installation and adjustment   sum      282,000            1       282,000
3. PHYSICAL OONTINGENCY                sum          5.0X                   171,980        171,980
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT       sum          2.5X                    85,990         85,990
5. MANAGEMENT                          sum          2.52                    85,990         85, 990
6. VEHICLES
Trucks                        ea         60,000           4       240,000        240,000
__________________________________________________________________________________________  _______-______
II .GOAT TANNERY RENOVATION                                                                7,270,000
1. CIVIL WORK                                                                   0       2,566,939
Compound processing building  .2           280        4,000    1,120,000
Storehouse                    r2           150        1,000       150,000
Dormitories and offices       .2            150       1,500       225,000
sewage treatment statlon      sum            0            1             0
miscellaneous                 sum    1,026,139            1    1,026,139
Roads and utliltles           suM        45,800           1        45,800
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                            3,754,800
Raw silk vorkshop equipment   ea        148,800           2       297,600
Preparation vorkshop equlpment ea        13,571           7        95,000
Tanning workshop equipment    ea        115,171           7       806,200
Cutting equipment             ea        60,800            4       243,200
Assembly workshop equipment   ea        239,475           8    1,915,800
Hair treatment equipment      ea         27,500           2        55,000
Miscellaneous equipment       sum       342,000           1       342,000
3. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              sum         10.02                   632,174        632,174
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT       sum          2.52                   158,043        158,043
5. MANAGEMENT                          suM          2.52                   158,043        158,043
6. VEICLES                             sum            0            0
IIIDUCK SLAUGHTER PLANT  /DMOWN FACTORY                                                    6,450,000
1. CIVIL WORKS                                                                          1,802,174
Factory building              m2           250        1,260       315,000
Warehouse                     m2           200          600       120,000
Dormitories and offices       .2           149        1,008       150,000
Sewage treatment station      sum                                       0
Mascellaneous                 sum     1,033,174           1    1,033,174
Roads and utilities           Sum       184,000           1       184,000
2. EQUIPENT
Slaughter assembly line       ea        750,000           1       750,000      3,610,000
Down processing assembly line ea      1,660,000           1    1,660,000
Cold storage equipment        ea      1,200,000           1    1,200,000
Mtseollaneous equlpment       um
3. PHYSICAL CORTINGENCIES              sum         10.02                   541,217        541,217
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT      sum           2.52                   135,304        135,304
5. MANAGEMNT                           sum          2.51                   135,304        135,304
6. VEHICLES                           sum                                       0         226,000
Refrigerated truck                  ea        90,000            2       180,000
Truck, 5 T                          ea        23,000            2        46,000
------------.-----------------------------------------------_ ---_ ---__ -------__ -----------  --------------



- 76-                                              ANNIX 3
TabIe  12
CHINA                                                  Page 2
COASL LANDS DEVEMN  PROJ
Cost Estimate - Jiangsu Animal Husbandry Agroprocessing Component (Yuan)
Total
Unit Price    Quantity       Amount          Amount
IV.DOWN FACTORY RENOVATION AND mEANSION                                                        4,306,000
1. CIVIL WORKS                                                                              1,181,08?
Factory buildiAg               m2            300         1,260       378,000
sailer room                    m2            300           60         18,000
Dormitories  nd offices        m2                            0             0
sewage treatmt station         sum                          0              0
Miscellaneous                  sun       775,087             1       775,087
Roads and utilities            sum        10,000             1        10,000
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                                2,565,000
Ash separator                  cc        293,000             1       293,000
Down feediag machitm           cc         96,000             1        96,000
Down separating machine        e-        687,000            2      1,374,000
Down filling machine           cc        312,000             1       312,000
Autamatic down feeding machUm. ea        103,000             2       206,000
Prseparator                    ea         96,000             1        96,000
Boiler                         e-         40,000            1         40,000
Miscellaneous                  sum       148,000             1       148,000
3. PRYSICAL OONTINGENCIES               sum          10.0                    374,609         374,609
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAGEMZNT        sum           2.5X                     93,652         "9,652
S. MANAGEMENT                           sum           2.5X                     93,652          93,652
6. VEHICLES                             sum                           0             0               0
V. MBAT CANNING FACTORY VICAN PRODWCTION LINE                                                 14,055,200
1. cIVIL WORES                                                                              6,050,000
Zmpty can workshop             m2            300        6,000      1,800,000
Insulated Warehouse            m2            300        4,000     1,200,000
Solid can workshop             O2            300        4,000     1,200,000
Cold store                     m2          2,391          460      1,100,000
Sewage treatment station       sum       150,000            1        150,000
Miscellaneous                  sum       100,000             1       100,000
Roads and utilities            sum       500,000             1       500,000
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                                6,482,000
Can production line            sun     4,922,000            1      4,922,000
Accessories                    sum     1,000,000             1     1,000,000
Refrigeration equipment        sul       250,000             1       250,000
TSrmal insulated storage equipmsum       150,000            1        150,000
Sewage treatment equIpment     sum       150,000            1        150,000
500 kVA transformer            sUm        10,000            1         10,000
Miscell oum                                    0             1             0
3. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               sum           5.0X                    626,600         626,600
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAEMENT         sum           2.5X                    313,300         313,300
5. MANAGEMENT                           sun           2.5X                    313,300         313,300
6. VEHICLES                             sum                                                   270,000
Refrigerated truck             ea         90,000             3       270,000
Truck                          ea         50,000            0              0
VIS.UR PROCESSING FACTORY                                                                      2,355,550
1. CIVIL WORS1                                                                              1,047,304
Pscotxy bulldsng               c2            285        2,200        627,000
Miscllaneous                   sum       22,304              1       225,304
Roads and utilities            sul       ff,O    195,000
2. EQUIPMENT                                                                        0       1,001,000
Tretment equipment             sum         9,246           59        545,500
Cutting equipment              Si          1,456          113        164,500
Auxillary equipmet             SUn        27,286             7       191,000
S_ew   trtmet equipment    sum           100,000            1        100,000
Miscellano                     sM
3. PHYSICAL CONSIN#NI                   SUM          10.01                    204,830         204,830
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT        an            2.52                     51,208          51,208
5. MANAG1 EN                            SUM           2.5X                     51,208          51,208
6. VEIICLBS                             SuM                                                         0
Refrigerated truck             ea
Truck                          ea
-----------_ -----------------_ -------------------------------------__------_ _ ------_ ----_ --------_____



- 77 -
ANl 3
Table 12
C"t htUisto - Ji.oou AMin   bantr3p Aswopwmeooo        Co_onent (tur)
Total
Unit ide    Qutltr         Amot    .        unt
VIIWULIAS REIfOVXS                                                                       2,405,"S
1. CeIL WOEKS                                                                         1.11,60
main wokop                   e2            500       1,000      500,000
Marohouwo                    ml           200        1,500      300,000
Canlol tab                   m2           250          240       60,000
Poe- dtribution w             2            250                   16,000
SPA" pang wedc_              ea           180           so       14,400
003mana  wlbAt               ea .         18.0         120       21,600
Off "e  and doumitowl.       ea2          220          540      11S,S00
boler soo                    ea           20            84       21,000
Bathruoo                     E2           200          s0        16,000
Roads and utilities         ua         150,000           1      130,000
mIlsullaneoua                SUN       151,000           1      151,000
2. 5Qfl'IWIT                                                                            895.500
Main proess1nW oqipdmnt      sun       478,500           1      476,500
Xleotzsol equipment          Oum       200,000           1      200,000
ipeline and wareou     *dulpasnusu     100,000           1      100,000
KleOeLLOnAouS oqIPAmnt       sun       115,000           1      115,000
5. PSYICAL C0NTINGBB=C5               am          10.0l                  202,250        202,250
4. P033?T DZSIC AND MK0UUAN           Om           2.5X                   50,155         50,550
5. MARAhWE                            SuW          2.5X                   50,556         50,558
6. VUCLES                             *2                                                 80,000
eftclawgted truek            *2
Truck                        .2         40.000           2       60.000
VillI. JiznoW                                                                            2,405,565
1. CIVL 91                                                                            1,144,400
Main workhoqp                M2           500        1,200      560,000
arehous                      *2           200        1,500      500,000
CZiLoo  lob                  O2           250          100       25,000
love: dlatributloa wor       .2           250           64       16,000
Spr part worksbop            m            180          80        14,400
ara9e and v4tshn o rnca      d            180          100       18,000
Offlos and downitoslas       Oa           220          720      156,400
loller roro                  r2           250           64       21,000
Bathroom                     O2            20           so        1,600
oads and utilities           sum       150,000           1      150,000
Mleselloaeos                 sum       100,000           1      10C,000
2. UQtIIIUtZ                                                                            695.500
maen proosesio equlpusnt      um       476,500           1      476,500
3l.octrlol equd4xne nun                200,000           1      200,000
PIpel    OA Warehuse qui_asm           100,000           1      100,000
Wisoelleaeou  equIpenDt      Ome       115,000           1      115,000
S. PHYI8CAL CONTIWNOZCIZS             am          100X                   203,790        205,790
4. 1903? 0U61W AM  MA_ Sh             #a           2.5X                   50,948         50,946
S. MAAOEMT                           uOn           2.53X                  50,948         50,946
6. VICLES" 60,000
Refruprated truck            ea
Truck                        04        60,000            1       60,000
------------------------------------------------------
IX.W3ZWIILL -  INMK                                                                      2,977,179
1. CItIL vKs                                                                          1,552,011
main woXkshop                e2            no0         900      252,000
Slo                          a2           280        1,957      547,960
Power dlstcbutlon worn       O2           19            61,400
8par parte workbhop          a2           190          80        15,200
Stolfeouse                   ea           230        1,040      250,040
Seiler roo                   a2           250           64       21,000
Rood and Utilities           SW        242,350           1      242,350
slllcllaneous                Om        232,101           1      252,101
2. UQUIPNW                                                                            1,056.*40
main parooesslg e oquimnt    av        555,050           1      555,050
Aullary equipment            Oum       546,790           1      S"6,790
MUeo.llonou equipdmnt         uan      115,000           1      115,000
. IUVSICAL o W?iUOCIUS                um          10.0                  25865o         256,885
4. 1ROJZCS M80 AND tUIAUW Et          am           2.S5                   64,721         84,721
S. VA_ SMUIT                          m            2.SX                   64,721         64,721
6. VUECLIS                                                                                    0
I            ITOAL       I 46,246,718  1  46.246,71 ;



-78 -                                                 AMDE 3
Table 13
Faze 1
COASTAL LN W HUW PT
Cost Estimte - jialsu Arioulture Tecoloy Compoent (Yuan)
Total
Subprojeot                                        Unit price   Quantlty       Amount            Amount
I.  SBRIIIPED IDPRODUCTION                                                                      2,752,438
1. NCIANICAL UQUHlNS                                                                         400,000
SIR type shrm cake en8ine           each       10,000            7        70,000
Beater                              each          800           10         8,000
Grinder                             each        1,000           10        10,000
Mmer                                each        1,000            6         6,000
Conveo                              each     8     00           10         8,000
Steam Drier                         set       250,000            1      250,000
Analytial equipmnt                   et        30,000            1        30,000
Air cleaning equipment               et        10,000            1        10,000
spae parts                          aen         8,000            1        8,000
2. CIVIL OCIKS - BUILDINUS                                                                 1,007,500
Engine and boller room              m2            300        1,200       360,000
Warehouse                           O2            250          500       125,000
Packaging and llqufic-ation roome   Oa            200          700       140,000
Offices, labs, domitories, ete.    m2             150        2,550       382,500
S. cvM  WORS -_                                                                              680,000
Liquifation pond                    *2            250          200       50,000
Drying floor                        .2             S0        5,000       150,000
Water and electricity supply        SUn       170,000            1       170,000
Generator                           ea        150,000            1       150,000
Roadt                               SUM        30,000            1        30,000
MiAe llaneous                       SUI       130,000            1       130,000
4. VEHICLES                                                                                  420,000
Refrigerated truck, 5ST             each      150,000            2       300,000
Tool van                            each       40,000            1       40,000
Truck, ST                           each       40,000           2        60,000
5. TRAINING AND TECHNITCAL ASSSTANCe                                                          50,000
Overss T ra  ingt                   *um                                       0
Foreign Consultants                 son                                       0
Patents/Technology Purebae          sm         50,000           1        50,000
6. PYSICAL CONTIRGZNCIUS               am                        5.1X      131,000           131,000
7. ENOINEERIN MAAON                    sum                       2.5S       63,938            63,938
II. SBUIP PEED PRODUCT1ON - BEI DuA II                                                          3,561,716
1.  MC zArL SgMM                                                                             775,500
Grind*                              eah      300,000            1      300,000
Pelletler                           each      150,000           1       150,000
Installation of equipmnt            each       58,500           1        58,500
Generator                           each       47,000            1       47,000
Boiler                              each       80,00t           1        80,000
Transforxer                         each       30,000           1        30,000
Drying unit                         each       70,000           1        70,000
Laboratory equipmat                 Oeah       40,000            1       40,000
2. CIVIL WO    - BUILDIIWS                                                                 1,148,235
Workshop                            m2            403          745      300,235
Warehous                            m2            250          300       75,000
Steel silo                          m3            100       2,000       200,000
Office., labs, *to.                 m2            200        1,170      234,000
Domitories                          Oa            280         900       252,000
Other budings                       sen        87,000            1       87,000
3. CIVIL  WS  - I NRA    C                                                                   215,800
Land purchae                         M        100,000            1      100,000
water and electricity supply    *    m         90,000            1       90,000



-79-                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 13
Pass 2
0MALC         DIYAT pCSo
Cost Estimate - Jiaa4u  Artiactut    ?.chnloew COmeat (tYuan)
Total
aSuprojeet                                       Wat iris.   quanuty        Msemt            Ammt
)IaoUsetna                         a.         as,eo            1       35.600
4. VICL                                                                                    90,000
1afr4srated truk, 5T               each 
TSol va                            eah                                      0
Tuck, 5T                           each       45000            2       90.000
3. TRAI   MID A ECIICAL ASSISTNE                                                           $00,000
TraInIng                            -        100,000           I      1OO,0OO
Poreiga Conaulnts         Om                                                0
FatentaTcholop  Purbaa             Otm       200,000           1      200,000
6. HMSICAL OWITNNC                    am.                       5.21     1S1,000      S     1S,000
7. DESIGN                             SUM                       2.S       *s,as            63,2sS
6. CONSTRUCCSSO  SUPtVISIOB           Oim                       1.$X      37,943            37,943
9. PRODUCTION MNATEI ALS              au       800,000            1      S00.000          800,000
III. HimE PEED PRODUCTION                                                                    1.993,044
1. IICMIC&L CUQiS                                                                        1,031.000
Ebtruder                           each      630,700           1      630.700
Pat applicatien system             *ach      111,300           1       111,300
Domestic equipmxnt                 atm       289,000           1      269,000
2. CIVIL  Kos - SUILDINGS                                                                  666,000
Wardhouse                          .2           700          s00      210,000
Plant                              O2          1,000         S00      300,000
Office.. labs, *tc.                .2           270          300       61,000
Pomitories                         *2           250          300       75,000
3. CIVIL 1IK118 - IN4ATRUCTUUE                                                            145,000
Water and electricity aupply       Om        25,000            1       25,000
iacellaneou                        atm       120,000           1      120,000
6. PUSICAL  COTNNCGCES                sun                       4.5X      62,690           62.890
7. DESIG                              SUm                      2.22       40,524           40,524
S. COESTRVCTIG  SupERVISION           SUM                       1.52      27,630           27,630
IV. RAMPESD FOX     ONCTICU AND }KOC:SSING                                                   9,812,450
1. NECHAnICAL _quET                                                                     7,329,500
8Z230  1ill                       Sam        92,750            4      $71,000
ultra-filter                       sn         ",925           20    1,296,500
Cantrifuge                         aum       371,000          10    3,710,000
Auxiliary  qupmdnt                 Stm    1,500,000               1 1,500,000
Installation                      a*        450,000            1      450,000
Transforer                         eah                         1 
Dryins unit                        each                        1            0
Laboratory equwi9nt                each                        1            0
2. CIVL  8K   - BUILDINGS                                                               1,200,000
orukasop                   )       *2           200        6,000    1,200,000
Vareboua                            2                                       0
Offic, IaU, ete.                   *2                                       0
Doimitris                          *2                                       a
Other buildinga                    aM                                       0
3. CVL VOS - nWUASTUCTD                                                                   100,000
Land purcba                        a
Iater and electricity  upply       aum       100,000           1      100,000
Niasellaneus                       aum                                      0
4. VgICLES                                                                                     0
Refrigerated truck, 5T             each                                     0
Tool van                           each                                     0
Truck, ST                          0ea                                      0
5. TRAINN  AND TSCHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                       200,000
fraing                             Su        200,000           1      200,000
loreLgn Conaultants                SM                                       0
PatantelTecbn.louy Purchae         am                          1            0
6. PHYSICAL COTIINCIES        l    O                           10.0X     662,050         682,950
7 .DESIGN                             OUM                       0.6       50,000           50,0W
8 inCsSuucu   SUPWVsSIO               sOm                       0.t2      50,000           50,000
________________________________ --_ _  -._      _   _   _    _   _   _  _   _ ----_    ____- __



- so -                                                 AMX 3
Table 13
Page 3
cam
~~~IM
00" urn MKvwNAN m 
Cot tat. - Jiang" ft.caulture T.cbadoso  cc_awnt (TOa)
Total
Umabpvoject                                        bint Psi"                                      Amu _  nt
v.  oham    UAu               MISSING                                                             7,23,*479
1.  mC*t.  I           i                                                                    2,622,8W
swospem  spev_ato,                   each        9,275           24       222,600
gepatoc                             eah         12,796           24       307,0W
Aslt-ats                             each        6,200            6        49,600
bILVWSl s,uAbev                      atm       420,000            1       430,000
Delaono.                             eac        10,000            4        40,000
Ihein-oloslu  macblue                each   _     ,000           10        80,000
Pal  du t aba_s                      e4ch       40,000           10       400,000
Cowe,s                              eah         20,000            2        60,000
Dums equ4m.t                         eah       100,000            1       100,000
csam Vm Machlae                      am        800,000            1   800,000
Lab"Vto,ae     eqjtpm                WINI.     110,000            I       150,000
la                                   -         162,600            1       13,600
2. CIY VOW -                   IZ-Dl6                                                       2.060,000
Woskbe                              ea             200        2,000       400,000
Vaz.hse                             at            200        3,000       600,000
OffIce., labu, ate.                  Om        560,000            I       560,000
Seed Pccduaattn buldias             SaM       500,000            1       500,000
3. emVOL   W  - 13*S0!U1                                                                      170,000
Laud parce"                          ama                         1I
Mate, am  e1eotviot          s        unlu  at  170,000           1      170,000
-lsflame                             Om                           1             0
4. Vu31.                                                                                      300.000
chias                               eac         60,000           2       120,000
Tool vam                             each       20,000           s        60,000
isck, ST                           eac         40,000           s       120.000
S. 22   3 AD AM  28MCAL AS6TM                                                                 100,000
Training                            am        100,000            1       100,000
V@?01an Camaultata                   -U                                        0
VatentslToheloli  purchase         aOm                          1             0
6. P   CM. CT1C13S                      am                       15.02      617,9"2           67,935
7. IUt0                                 SW                        2.5X      134,32            126,322
S. c ma2magim  sIUZsU                  am                         2.52      136,322           146,322
9. 1e00u0    tMIA!LSL                           730,000            1       750,000           759,000
VI.  MAU.3! 4D MALT nMsiAn     *AND    03X6                                                      4,112,610
1. nIook=  sIHnI3N                                                                             55.220
Air cepesaln  clea_r                 "ua         1,790           1         1,790
Smal barlsy-sakin  deite            each       24,370            1        24,370
Pr-lcdmrvd analwueg                 each       29,060            1        29,060
2. memo10 UXJIH3T                                                                 0           860,800
811   _mblne                        each        7,000            1         7,000
AlralAa cweoe  z                    each        5,000            2        10,000
Jrle  washer                        each      1U,000             2        26,000
Soter                               eah        15,000            2        30,000
oeotus Machine                       eac        15,000           2        $0,000
TurnIng devinc                      each        15,000          20       300,000
DiYer                               eah         7,000            4        26,000
Wllterlm  mechima                   each       12,000            2        26,000
Aunmatxtlo"cl                       each         4,000           4        16,000
Fan                                 each       10,000            4        40,000
ran                                 ea_          3,000          16        4",000
Vagm p.                             each       15,000            2        30,000
bat e_chaer                         each        5,000            6        40,000
prepeller Le                        each        1,200           24        26,800
Refrigeratoln wat                    each       10,000           2        20,000
Beller                              each       65,000            1        85,000
Imeraton tecgh                      each   _    ,000             6        9O,000
Imrale  t"ha                                    2,000            a         6,000



-81 -                                                 ANNEX 3
TA7DS W  13
Paso 4
COA  D8M DBESm  CSD
Cost Estimate - Jiamsu Asriculture !eebnoloy C_mpoaat (Yu"n)
Total
Subproject                                        Unit Prle    Quantity       meutat           Amount
2. CIVIL vORKS - BUILDNrGS
Wo.kshop                            M2            200       10,000    2,000,000          2,000,000
3. CIVIL WORIS -    RA CU609,210
Land purchae                        sum       120,000            2       258,000
Water and electricity sUppLY        aUM       262,410            1       262,410
xLseellaneous                       aUR        88,800            1        88,800
4. VECBIzS                                                                                    70,000
Refrlgeratd truck, ST               each                                       O
Tool van                            each       40,000            1        40,000
Tuck, 5S                            each       30,000            1        $0,000
5. TRAINING AND TSECNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                               0
Training                            au                           1             0
ior isn Consultants                 sum                                        0
f ttataI!eebnology Purchase         SUM                          1             0
6. PNSYICAL COP l GENCIR8              sum                        9.01     32S,571           323,571
7. DESIGN                              sua                        2.$X      89,881            89,881
S. CONSTRUCTION SUP!SoIN               atm                        1.5X       53,928           53,928
9. PRODUCTION DWINGENT                 atm        50,000            1       50,000            50,000
Viz. SEROLOY TESi ITS                                                                           1,859,826
1. MECRANICAL EQplPMENT                                                                      463.032
Tranaf r .lactrnphoresls            each       11,130            1        11,130
v- eeacsupnotr.eter                  eh         7,420            1         7,420
rosoe dyere eah                               59,360            1       59,360
L-er scananin  instriment           each       55,650            1       55,650
MA sequaener                        each       29,680            1       29,660
Automatic balance                   eOch       25,970            1        51,940
Puase eentrifugs                    each       74,200            1        74,200
Ulcrae nttfug                       * each     14,640            1       14,64O
xicropiptte deviee                  each        2,968            4        11,872
Incubator                            acah      29,660            1       29,660
Electronac balance                  eah        11,130            2       22,260
Miscellaneous aupplie              a*m         95,000            1       95,000
2. SVPPL2ES                                                                                  363,580
Ragents                             SM        363,580            1       S63,580
3. CIVIL WORMS - BUILDINGS                                                                   392,700
wocbaep                             StM       392,700            1      392,700
4 TRAINING AND TECHUICAL ASSISTANCE                                                          185,500
Tralnin                             SuM       111,300           1       111,300
Forelgn Consultants                 sum        74,200            1       74,200
Patents/ eobonlogy  utrobsas        am                                        0
5. PYSXCAL CONTMIEGECIES              sa                        15.02     210,722           210,722
6. DESIGN                              am                        2.51       S3,120            35,120
7. C0NSURUCTICN SUPUVISION             SUM                       1.5X       21,072            21,072
8. PRODUCTION EZPER8S (Wages and othor)st3 188,100                 1       188,100           188,100
--------------_--_----  -   -     ------------------------- ----  -  ----------------  -   --------------------------



- 82 -                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 13
Page 5
CRTF
COASL LAD DEVZU T PROJICS
Cost Esti ste - Jigsiu Agslulture TSchnolo8y Component (Yuan)
Total
Subproject                                        Untt Prce    Quantity        Amount            Amount
VIII ASPARAGUS PRODUCTION AND YROCEI8Cz                                                           4,632,403
1. NICEWICAL UQUIPJEUT                                                                       2,359,470
Vegetable quick fre.. unit          *ech    1,319,790             1    1,319,790
Can-sbaplng production line         each       558,000            1      538,000
Automatic vacuum packing machine    each        63,240            1        63,240
Dynamotor                            each       44,640            1        44,640
Shipping                             each      148,800            1      148,800
)iscellaneAus equlpment              each      125,000            1       123,000
Drying unit                          each                         1             0
Laboratory eqyuipent                 ama       100,000            1       100,000
i. CIVIL vORKS - BUILDINGS                                                                   1,100,000
Factory                              2 1         2,000          250       400,000
Warehouse                           .2             400          250       600,000
Other bulldings                      am        100,000            1       100,000
3. CIIL WOW  - IN       R                                                                     400,000
Land prepaatio                       am        100,000            1       100,000
Water and electricity supply          m        1"0,000            1       150,000
Miscellaneou                         am        150,000            1       150,000
4. VEIICLES                                                                                    293,200
Combine                              each       60,000            2       120,000
Tool -van                            eah        40,000            2       80,000
Truck. 5T                            each       46,600            2        93,200
5. TRAINING AND TCNIIICAL ASSISTAI8S                                                            97,241
Training                             sm         20,"76            1       20,776
Foreign Consultants                  sm         20,665            1       20,665
Patents/Tecbnolosy Purhea            ama        55,800            1       55,800
6. PHYSICAL COUTIUGUCiIS                Sma                       5.0X      212,496            212,496
7. DESIGN                             agm                         2.51      106,248           * 6,248
8. CONShRUCTIIO  SUNUV SION             SUM                        1.51      63,749             43,749
TOTL                                                                  36,017,965         36,017,965



83 -                                            ANNX 3
Table 14
Page 1
cu
CoAs    LAS  DEVEIO)S   PRJEC
Cost Estimate - Ebsig D tu Shrap Pave Dueelopmet (Yuan)
NeM Constmuction (9165 Wator 611 hat)      SUM8q
Unit Price    Quantity       Amut            Ahmet
I.XECLAWATION                                                                            32,343,614
1. SEA DIDES                                                                        20,046,280
Vertical Sand Drafns         m            2.00    1,279,900     2,559,800
sand Blanket                 .3          18.00      303,100     5,455,800
Cshead Stone Layer           .3           8.00      117,100     . 936,800
Rockfill                     urn          8.00      535,500     4,284,000
Earth Excavation             .3           6.75      808,500     5,457,375
Earthill Constructi          d3           5.65      141,500       799,475
Riprap                       .2           2.50       79,500       198,750
Stone masonry Wells          ms          56.00        5,210       291,760
Concrete Parapt wall         uS         120.00          521        62,S20
2. SEA GATES                                                                         4,980,200
4 m Sea Gates                each       25,000          128     3,200,000
Rook Poundation Exavation   each          7.74      230,000     1,780,200
3. MISCELLANEOUS                                                                     1,200,000
Temporary Roads              sw        675,000            1       675,000
Water and Poer For Costuction          525,000            1       525,000
4. bUILDS                                                                            1,300,000
Productian Buildings         m2         108.33       12,000     1,300,000
5. PYSIC CONTInEcY                Om           11.5X           1    3,165,545        3,165,545
6. PROJECT DESIGN                 sX              32           1       825,794         825,794
7. HANAGUU                        san             32           1       825,794         825,794
Ir.SURIWP FARM CONSTRUCTION                                                               12,641,926
1. WATER SUPPLY AND DRAING                                                           5,118,045
Barhvorks                    .3           2.78    1,280,465     3,558,?45
Rsulating Gates              a          28,000           o0       840,O0
Pumping Stations             each      359,850            2       719,700
2. POND CONSTMCMTI0                                                                  3,336,500
:arthworks                   .3           1.74      588,000     1,021,500
162 Inlet gates              .           5,000       231.5    1,157,500
162 Outlet Gates            *            5,000       231.5    1,157,500
3. ROADS AID BRIGMES                                                                 1,813,000
7 Bridges (16 - 24 . Spas) a             2,500          136       340,000
Road                         la         3 1,803        41.6    1,323,000
Wharves                      each       75,000            2       150,000
4. 1UILDINGS                                                                           920,000
Production Buildings         .2            164        5,600       920,000
S. PMYSICAL CONTINGENCY           sum             72           1       783,128         783,128
6. PROJICT DESIGN                 NM              3X          1        335,626         335,626
7. )_SIAGUI                      SUn             32           1        335,626         335,626
III.SUPPORT FACILITIES                                                                     10,773,835
1. COD STORAGE PLAIT                                                                 2,452,110
Buildings                    .2            378        2,566       969,910
quipment                     am      1,329,400            1     1,329,400
Equipment Installatio        sum       152,800            1       152,800
2. NURSERY                                                                           2,079,100
Buildings                    m2            217        6,490     1,407,756
Water Supply                 sun       129,104            1       129,104
Electricity Supply           sum       295,095            1       295,095
Equi_mnt                    s*m        247,145            1       247,145
3. FEEDfILL                                                                          1,061,948
Buldiags                     .2            230        2,236       513,220
Equipment                    *um       473,628            1       473,628
Bleetricity Supply Equipmnt sU=         75,100            1        75,100
6. UTILITIES                                                                         3,173,000
Bl etriolty Supply           sUD    1,613,000             1     1,613,000
Water Supply                 sum    1,560,000             1     1,560,000
7. TECHNICAL SERVICE CENTZR                                                            940,000
Bqulpment                   sam        300,000            1       300,000
Bulding                      aIM       640,000            1       640.000
8. PRYSICAL CONTINGENCY           suM             sX           1       485.308         485,308
9. PROJECT DESIGN                 sun            3x            1      291,185          291,185
10. MNANAGUUE                      am              32           1       291,185         291,185



- 84 -                                           AM=   3
Table 14
Page 2
C3hA
OM?L LARDS DYWI  KfCT
Cost Istimte - IhSLaS D_utu aShrMp lam Deelopment (Yua)
nw Comstrction (9165 on or 611 ba)       Sury
UnIt Price   Quantity       Amomt          Atmnt
IV.VERIcIS AND cOSTUCO LQUIUNT                                                           4,957,100
1. COWSTRDCTIXO 1QUSPn T                                                         2,790,100
Tugboats, 1)5-185 uP        each     100,000           2       200,000
large, 20 .3                each      75,000           10      750,000
Workboat, 401P (15 T)       eah       20,000           1        20,000
Workboat, 40 BP             each      10,000            1       10,000
Vertcal snd rVW             eh        50,000            4      200,000
Jackup platform            eah      100,000           2       200,000
Dredge, 1-1.5 .3            each     500,000           1       500,000
Drefts, suction             each     200,000           1       200,000
Conerete skip               each      10,000          20       200,000
Front end loader            each     150,000            1      150,000
Truck Crane, 15             each     200,000           1       200,000
Trailer, lowbed, 10-15 T    each     100,000           1       100,000
Ambulance                    ach      60,000            1       60,000
2. VUICLIS                                                                       1,575,500
Truck, refri8erted, 2 T    each       75,000           1        75,000
Truck, refriserated, 4 T    each     123,000           1       125,000
Truck, 4 S                  each      35,000           5       175,000
Truck, 0.75 T               each      28,000          23       644,000
JeeO                        each      55,650          10       556,500
3-. OTHER                                                                          591,6000
Uorkboats, 15-20 T          each     150,000           2       300,000
Feedig boats                each       1,800          162      291,600
V.  TRAINING AND STUD? TOURS            sun       735,000           1       735,000        735,000
VT. PRODUCIO MATERIALS                  sum    2,050,000            1    2,050,000       2,050,000
63,501,475     63,501,475



-85-                                  ANNE3
Table 15
cH
COCSTAL RAIDS DEYELOPIUT PROJECT
cost Estimat - Zhejlang Xuaam Project
Mmv Construction (3000 mu or 200 ha)       Sutmry
Unit Prc    qQuantity       munt           Amount
l.RBI8PeRCBm385 OP S&A visa8                                                          1,383,648
EaDthvokAS                 M3           6.50       29,600      192,400         192,400
2. om  PROTECTION                                                                  340,400
Erthberka                   .3          5.00       44,400      222,000
Stonavorks                 S3          16.00        7,400      118,400
S. iAVE JREARINO DMN            a             220       3,000       650,000        640,000
4. mISCM.LANOUBS                am              0           1             0              0
5. PUYSICAL OCNUTIE3C?          atm         10.00X          1       119,280        119,280
6. PROJECT DESIGN               San          3.001          1        35,784         35,784
7. K4NACUT                      AIm          3.001          1        35,784         35,784
I1.SBRIHP FARM CONSTRUCTION                                                            6,145,049
1. POND OSUTRUCTOMW                                                               3,580,080
Dilvding Dlesa              as          2.60      805,800    2,095,080
Pond Gates                  set        4,000          198      792,000
12 to 24 BP Ptuping Statins set        7,000          99       699,000
2. VATER SUPPLY AND DRUAINAB                                                       822,000
nftlow Chbanals            S             200        1,970      394,000
100 to 150 up Puiplg Statins          28,500           4       114,000
Distribution Chbanmls      *3           3.00       38,000      114,000
Regulating Gates            each      20,000           10      200,000
3. sLEcTRICm  SUPPLY                                                               137,000
11 RV transmission Lioo    km         12,000           S        60,000
400 V DistributLon LLne    In          5,000           8        40,000
50 IV StavAdby Gnerator.    set       20,000           1        20,000
SubstatiLn                 each        5,000           1         5,000
Geeretor Bulllding          O2           200           60       125000
4. !UaNs1 AhI0  IAOIL!T1385i00
Roads        A5,200                                     3      113,000
Tractor Roads                         35,000           2        70,000
Bridaes                               15,000           6        90,000
Wharv^s                               80,000            3      240,000
5. 3pLaD33                                                                         484,0.0
Production buildings                     200        1,400      280,000
Storeroo 150                                        600        90,000
Ofties and Dermitories                   200          500      100,000
miscellaneous                         14,000            1       14,000
6. PHYSICAL COgTIUOCY                        5.002          1       276,804        276,804
7. PROJECT DESION                            S.OOX          1       166,082        166,082
S. MA5NAEMWNT                                9.00S          1       164,082        166,082
In.8UPPOT IACIITINS                                                                     5,233,428
1. ATCBERY                                                                       1,236,200
ulldALss                                 214        $,590      767,800
Water Supply                         160,200           1       160,200
Electricity supply                    22,500           1        22,500
Equipmnt                             202,500           1       202,500
iascellaneous                         83,200            1       83,200
2. COLD STAO                                                                      3,390,400
buildins                                 359        3,200    1,150,000
water SuppLy                         145,000           1       145,000
Electricity Supply                   180,000           1       180,000
Bqulpme nt                         1,551,300           1    1,551,300
S. so.ILaOnmeu                       3"64,100           1      364,100
S.* TECUDICAL SERVIce cTEssE                                                        88,200
XCuipment                             88,200           1        88,200
4. PUCUL COSTIbGSCT                          5.00X          1       255,740        235,740
5. PROJECT DESIGN                            3.OOX          1       141,444        141,444
6. KURAUAT                                   3.00X          1       141,444        141,444
XV.VEUICLES AND DOMS                                                                     911,650
Truck, refrigerated, 2 T              75,000           1        75,000
Truck, rfrifgerated, 4 !             125,000           1       125,000
Truck, 4 T                            35,000           2        70,000
Truck, 0.75 !                         28,000           2        56,000
Utility vehlels                      55,650           1        55,650
Tractor$                               5,000          10        50,000
Fed Ttanspeot Be t                   150,000           2       300,000
Pond Work Boets                        1,800          100      180,000
V.STUDY DGNRS AND RAININS                      310,000           1       310,000        310,000
VI.PODSUCTIE   TUJAtILS                       1,200,000           1    1,200,000       1,200,000
15,183,7s      15,183,775



-86-                                                 ANNMX 3
Table 16
cum ~ ~ ~ 
COASTAL LANDS DKYELONT PROJECT
Cost Estimate - ZhsLang Dingshan Shrimp Fag. Development (Yuan)
now Construction                Summary
Unit Pric    Quantity       Amount           Amount
I . SRADIKES                                                                       j     4,981,040
1. DIE C0MPLBZTN                                                              j     2,700,000
Stone Masonry               M3          8.00      150,000    1,200,000
Earth Vorks                 Ms          6.00      250,000    1,500,000
2. SEA GATES                     a         40,000            6       256,000          256,000
3. SE D1XE CLOSURES              each      50,000            3       150,000          150,000
4. R*TAnIRmO WALLS                                                                    220,000
Greuted Rubble Stoma        Ms         55.00        4,000       220,000
_. DM  AOQUR - COiPLStion                                                             120,000
Placed Rubble Stonem         3         15.00        8,000       120,000
DIE ARMOUR - R0INVCENENT                                                           840,000
raouted Rubble Stones        3         55.00        8,000       440,000
Stne Masonry                d3          8.00       50,000       400,000
6. WINDBREAK PLANTINGS           km         2,000            4         8,000            8,000
7. PEYSICAL COOTINGLNCY         ua             101                   429,400          429,400
8. PROJECT DESIGN,               am             sx                   128,820          128,820
9. MANAUEKMIT                    au             3X                   128,820          126,820
II. SHRIMP FARM COUSTRUCTICU                                                               5,556,682
1 * 3iH  PONDS                                                                      1,437,200
Earth moving                Ms          2.60      332,000       863,240
Land Levelllng              m3          3.00       50,000       150,000
Pond Inlet and Outlet Gates each        4,000         106       424,000
2. FLOOD PROTECTION DIOES                                                             468,000
Earth Moving                .3          3.00      156,000       468,000
3. WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE                                                          685,000
Earth having                *3          3.00      156,000       468,000
RegMUltlng Gates            .          15,000          28       417,000
4. SEA, ATS8                                                                          240,000
for Rock Foundatios         a                                         0
For SOil Foundations        m          40,000           6       240,000
5. PuMPING EQUIPIUNT                                                                  321,000
Fumphouses                  m2           150          300        45,000
PUMpS                       sets       12,000          23       276,000
6. ROADS                                                                              370,000
Simple Roads                km         30,000           9       270,000
Trastor Roads               km         10,000          10       100,000
7. BUIDGES                       each       3,000           s0      240,000           240,000
6. PiERS                         each     100,000            1       100,000          100,000
9. RELCTRICITY SUPPLY                                                                 270,000
Submarine Cable             km                                       0
High Voltage Line (35kv)    km                                        0
High Voltage LIne (1Okv)    km         15,000          10       150,000
Low Voltage Line            km          7,000          10        70,000
Substattins                 each      50,000            1        50,000
10. BuILDINGS                                                                          675,000
Bedquters                   .2           250        1,500       375,000
Prodctio  Build,ngs        .12           200        1,500       300,000
11. PHYSICAL COWTINGCT            am             5X           1       250,310          250,310
12. PR1l0 DESIGN                  am             32           1       150,186          150,186
13. I_NANM                        SUa            3S           1       150,166          150,186
III.SUPPORT FACILITIES                                                                     1,495,392
1. PsMILLS                                                                            299,000
Equipmet                     et        60,000           1        60,000
Buildings                   .2        195,000           1       195,000



-87 -                                                    AMNX 3
T^b1e 16
Page 2
ZDSF21D21                                                    calmI
COStL LAUID  DEVZNU        RJEC
Cost Eatlmte - hejtau  Dghsaa Shnt.  Pax  Developmnt (Yan)
now Constmttlcn                   SUMay
Vuit Prie    Quantity           mt              A_mt
Su dying Pavement    .        2              s           200        lu,.0O
Electric love:                am         14,000            1        14,000
water Supply                 aO                                           0
InstallatIo  Costs           am          20,000            1        20,000
2. COLD STORAOE                                                                          1,048,200
EBquipmt                      ace       290,200            1       290,200
Buildins                      a2        568,000            1       568,000
Eletric Poer                             40,000            1         40,000
Installatin Costs            SW         150,000            1       150,000
3. PSSICAL CONTINSUCT              Om      5X                   1         67,560            67,360
4. PRWOCT DESSIT                  Sam              3X           1         40,416            40,416
S.  AIAGIUGEM1I                    ui   I2                                40,416            40,416
V.VEHleas, EQUIPHIN? AND BOATS                                                                   645,500
1. CONSTRUCSOC ECQuZnM                                                                     100,500
aXrshlasd Excavator           each      200.500            1        200,500
2. VEHICLES                                                                                243,000
Tm&ck, Refriserated. 2.0 T   *ech        75,000            1        60,000
Truck, 4 T                   ea3 5,000                     2        70,000
Truck, 0.75 T                each        28,000            4        75,000
1.30*18                                 j                                                  202,000
Pond Workboats               each         1,800           5         52,000
Fe"d Transport Boat          each       150,000            1       150,000
V. PRODUCTION MATERIALS                  atm       950,000             1       950,000           950,000
13,628,814       1,628,814



- 88 -                                 ~~~~~~~T.W. 17
O~~   ~ ut       0"   8u
Cos Itlme    lbj5ag   qam  UbnsrIc imDelemt(w)
OIt Ikt.    Quattty           mt                 t
I    OP132M  OF 2M(A!O                                                                  4,106
1. oi1l8                                                                           2,550,000
Steo. Isonry               as           6.00     150,000    1,200,000
-   tk Macks               .5           4.50      500,000    1,550,000
2. SU GAS*                      a          30,000           6       20,000           240,000
3. OM DI  CLOMS                 eah       100,000           2       200,000          200,000
4. uuzuz   Wm"8                                                                      253,200
Grouted Rubble ftose       Ms          55.00        4,640      25,200
S. OM AIDUR - cUMLa2C                                                                465,000
Plaed Rubble Sten"         as          15.00       51.000      465,000
6. DID AUIRU - 31t3113!                                                              597,650
grouted Rubble St8es       as          55.00         ,250      $97,6I0
.        L amsue                              lOX           1       410,765          410,785
7. 1OS0    103                  SU              5x                  12i,2t6          125,256
S. 3A 3X                        eM             53           1       123,236          12,236
I  811KRDI PAMl _StSUUOU                                                                  8,56,936
13  mDlV 701O5                                                                     2,668,600
ZitIb DoSng                aS           2.60     596,000    1,549,600
tand Lowelling             uS           5.00     135,000       39",000
Pend Wet a  Outlet Gates each          4,000         250       920,000
2. 1,001D 0P30?2    Dim8                                                            180,000
NarthNowia Ib                           5.00       60,000      180,000
S. AU  SPPLY AMD DMINAN                                                            1,462,000
Earth mboin                Ms           3.00      579,000    1,157,000
Isgulatin  Gte              a         15,000          25       545,000
4. "80*3                                                                             66"0,000
Fot Rook Po.nat5m          a          25,000          12       300,000
P.r 6.il leudtie#m         a          40,000           9       "0,000
S. PIU  MIMI UU                                                                      222,000
ltk.ases                   .2            150         200        30,000
pf'                        sets       12,000          16       192,000
6. Rom                                                                               319,000
SSPLe Roas                 k           0,000           9       279,000
ftactor aes                k          10,000           4        40,000
7. 131053           Xea                     5,000          60       180,000          180,000
S. PIRS                         ea4h      100,000           1       100,000          100,000
9. ZZ310ICI  SUPL                                                                    595,000
Wubqsdas Coble                       100,000           5       300,000
Sigh Volta" Lim (551)    Is                                          0
Nis4 Volts" Lm  (lOl)    in          15,000          14       210,000
Low Voltag Li e                        7,000           5        35,000
Substations                e"h        50,000           1        50,000
10. A1R sUPL                                                                          176,000
haia  wells                a           2,200          60       176,000
Water Limes                                            0             0
11. 3I11.013                                                                          775,000
Ueadqua2tersma                          2i0    1 ,500          375,000
Production Uwilda          m2            200       2,000       400,000
12. 38ICAL 01213a0t               m             5X           1       577,680          577,880
15. 1C10 01603                   em              3           1      226,728           226,728
14. KAUAOIII                     em             St                  226,728           226,726
III. SUPPORT 1*0A128                                                                       2,160,50
1. PUHUL8S                                                                           507,000
tIplqo_t                   set        60,000           1        60,000
ULildiags                  m2            250         760       195,000
Bur drying Paw"a           *2             50         200        10,000
81 eetie lower             em         14,000           1        14,000
Water swply                OM                          0             0
lustalltic  Cots           em         28,000           1        28,000
2. COOID St                                                                        1,639,400
Ibiesat                    *t        504,400           1       5,400
sauidisp                   Ea2           529       2,450       605,000
3le.tuo POr                em         70,000           1        70,000
Imtallatie  costs          em        260,000           1       260,000
3. P MICL  II1I1                em             5            1        97,520           97,520
USING 1151M                  emn             sx          1         6,592           58,n92
wmvA                         am              5           1        56,$92           58,$92



- 89 -                                                     3
Table 17
Pa,e 2
Cost lbtat. - ZheJ Sa aspen Shglu le  Devlpm     (ua)
New Cestuctntle                  8ugnsz
unit hit     Qatlty        _mt              bmomt
IV. vELS, q         NT  SD BAMm                                                            "2,500
1. o0UnsUU      UIHUS                                                              200,500
11Mahid Ua"tmg            a"h       200,500           1       200,500
2. VSCLUS                                                                          138,000
Tnuck, 1.fr1.rted, 2.0 T  eoh        75,000           1       75,000
Tuak,  T          Sach               35,000           1       35,000
Sauc*, 0.7s                 a        28,000           1       28,000
S. BOATS                                                                           904,000
Pond Vowkboats             each       1,000           4        4,000
e"d Trasport Boat          eah      150,000           2      300,000
V.  STUDY TOUS AND ?RAU=               Sa       200,000           1       200,000          200,000
VI. PHODUCTICS #4 L8                   S=     2,000,000           1    2,000,000         2,000,000
ToTL                                                      18,157,0U        18,157,046



-90 -                                            ANNEX 3
Table I8
Page 1
cam
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPHENt PROJECT
Co- , Estimate - Zhejians ufn n Project (Yuan)
lew Couatzuotion              StauM&y
Unlt price    Quantity      Amount         Amount
I.  SEADIKES                                                                              1,66529
1. DIZZ CCXPLES10"                                                                  706,000
Stoe Masonry                u3          6.00       51.000       306.000
Earth Works                 a3          5.00       60,000       400.000
2. RETAINING WALLS                                                                  119,200
Grouted Rubble Stoma        as          55.00       1,200        66,000
Greuted Reotacgular ftene.   3          70.00         760        53.200
S. DUKE ARMOUR - CWEPLET0                                                           308,900
Concrete                    Ms          90.00       1.180       104,200
Greutod Rubblo Stoma        us          55.00       2,480       136,400
Placed Rubble Stoma         d3          13.00       5,100       S6o300
4. DIKe ARHDUR - REINFORCUYXNT                                                      295,500
GrCante Rubble Stones       a           53.00       2,700       148.500
Stone masan?                0S          9.80       15,000       147,000
5. WINDDNZAK PLANTINGS           km         2,000            3         6,000          6,000
6. PHYSICAL CONTIGENC'           sun           lOX           1       143,560        143,560
7. PROJECT DESIGN                *Im            31                    43,068         43,068
S. NANAGIENT                     sun            31           1        43,068         43,068
I.  SNRaM  FARU CONSTRUCTION                                                             7,624,035
1. swimW PONDS                                                                    2,172,0'0
Earth Moving                Ms           2.60     440,000    1,144,000
Land Levelling              d3           3.00     100,000       300,000
pond Wnlet and Outlet Gates *ach        4,000         162       728,000
2. FLOOD PROTECTION DIKES                                                           360,000
Earth Mavin$                as           3.00     120,000       360,000
3. ATUR SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE                                                         960,000
Earth mvwng                 Ms           3.00     270,000       810,000
Regulating Gets$            m          15,000          10       150.000
4. SEA GATES                                                                        300,000
for Rock Poundatiana        m          25,000          12       300,000
For Soil FoundatIons        a                                         0
5. PUPWN  EQuIPMENT                                                                 166,500
Puvhoausas                  ml            150         150        22,500
PUMP                        *ato       12,000          12       144,000
6. ROADS                                                                            440,000
Simple Roads                km         30,000          12       360,000
Trator Road&                km         10,000           8        80,000
7. aDGES                        *ech        3,000           so        90,000         90,000
8. PIERS                         *eah     100,000            1       100,000        100,000
9. ILECTRICITY SUPPLY                                                               953,000
Submrine Cable              km                                        0
Righ Voltage Lin  (35kv)    km         25,000          15       375,000
HNih Voltae4 Lin  (10kv)    km         15,000           3        45,000
Low Voltas  LLne            km          7,000           5        35,000
Substatios                  each      500,000           1       500,000
,0. HATER SUPPLY                                                                     350,000
Pumpig Walls                m                                         0
Water Line.                 3m 50,000                   7       350,000
11. BUILDINGS                                                                        975,000
Naad4uartea                 m 2           250       1,500       375,000
ProdUotiOn lUilduga$       .2            200        3,000       600,000
14. PHYSICAL CNTINGE CY           JUW            5X           1       343,425        343,425
15. PROJECT DESICG                 um            32           1       206,055        206,055
16. MANA_OM                       aum            sx                   206,055        206,055
III. SUPPORT FACISITIS                                                                   4,415,469
1. NURSERIES                                                                      1,229,500
Nureery Pnda                .3           150        1.000       150,000
OVewirwtering Panda         d            200          270        54,000
Nur r y Fead Panda          .s           150          150        22,500
Precipitating Tank          d3            150         900       135,000
Sheltera                   O2            120        1,900       228,000
Production Suildinga        O2           250          400       100,000
Elettrc Power Supply        sUm       180,000           1       180,000
Neat and Water supply       sUm       220,000           1       220,000
InDtallatlan Coat.          sum       100,000           1       100,000
Miscellaneous               sm         40,000           1        40,000



-91 -                                          ANNMX 3
Table 18
Page 2
COMSAL LAMbS DEVILO1)  5 PRDJECS
Coat Estilate - Zhe LagM Vamm Project (Yuan)
Nev Comatvactlcn             StL5wry
Unit Fries   Quantity      Amsat           Amount
2. 171BZLLS                                                                      1,109,000
Equipment                  *et       359,000           1       $39,000
luildiasa                  O2            250       2,000       500,000
SUn drying Pavemant        02             50         400       20,000
E1eetrle POw               sum       150,000           1       150,000
Water SuP1y                aum        20,000           1        20,000
xntallattin Coats          sum        80,000           1       80,000
S. COLD STORAOE                                                                  1,659,400
Equipment                  aet       504,400           1       504.40
Busildng.                   2            395       2,050       805.000
Eleetric Peovr             sum        70,000           1        70,000
1nst Aation Costs          sum       260,000           1       260,000
4. ?UYSICAL CONTINGENCY         sitm           5X           1       198,695        196.895
PROJECT bIESTO               SUM             5X          1       119,557        119,337
MANAGUENX                    eum             3x                  119,337        119,337
IV. VEHTCLES, EQU1IUW? AND BUTS                                                          1,078,100
1. COUSSRUCTXOO EQUIIUM!N                                                          200,500
Marahland Excavator        each      200,500           1       200,500
2. VEUzTLE8                                                                        412,000
Truck, Refrigerated, 4 T    eeah     125,000           1       125,000
Truck, 4 T                 *ech       35,000           5       175,000
Truck, 0.75 T              each       28,000           4       112,000
3. IOATS                                                                           465,600
Pond Vorkbats              Oech        1,800          92       165,600
*ed tTransport Best        each      150,000           2       300,000
V. PRODUChION MATERIALS               sui   1,600,000             1    2,600,000       1,600,000
16,582,900     16,382,900



-92 -                                 ANNEX 3
-                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tabl=e19
cur
OASAL LANDS DU CosNT PNDJO
Cost Estimto - Zej La   eednita  SerwL" Cmtew (Yuan)
unit  Psi"    Q"Atlty       Amount           Amont
I. TEONNICAL SUVMCE CRIl SU                                                               1,332,000
1. sU!LDXIPS                  .2           400        3,00      1,200,000        1.200,000
2. PHYSXCAL COIINSZIC         am             52           1        60,000           60,000
S. PRJCST DESG                am             S2           1        36,000           36,000
A. IANMUT                     am             31           1   9 6,000               36,000
II.VENICLES AND sIunT                                                                       479,000
1. VEHICLES                                                                           314,000
Truck, Rofrft18ted, 4.0 T   "oh       125,000           1       125,000
Truck, 4 T                  sac        35,000           3       105,000
Truck, 0.75 T       S        ah        28,000           3        84,000
2. ISTRIHN91S AND APPAAU8       sun       165,000            1       165,000          165,000
1,811,000        1,811,000



-93-                                                 ANNX 3
Table 20
COASTAL LUDS DESLROHUZH PROJUOT
Coat Estiate - Zhe31ing Eel Project (Yuan)
Now Constuction
Unit Peti    Quuntlpty       moumt           Amount
. 8EL YARNS                                                                             68,042,148
1. CIVIL 3O08                                                                         47,086,024
Eathvork                                  g.00      500,000    1,500,000
Cemont Block                             35.0   1,800,000    5,250,000
Cement                                     140       16,000    2,240,000
Snd end Stoe                                25      400.000   10,000,000
steel                                    1,5C0          400       600,000
Plastic pipe                                45       80,000    3,600'000
Inflow Piping                              $50        2,000       700.000
Outflow Piping                             450        2,000       900,000
Pond Shelter Superatwucutue             40,000       200.00    8,000,000
Substation IvildIns                        250    1,240.00        315,000
Storehouse                                 200        5,600       720,000
Open Pond                                   70       25,800    1,666,000
Enclosed Ponds                              so       16,648       708,624
Filter Ponds                               100        2,240       224,000
Boiler hous                                250        1,120       260,000
toed Workshop                              250        4,000     1,000,000
Pecking Mouse                              200       6,000    1,200,000
Transfer station Peond                   1,250          520      400,000
Oflce an" Dogmitorles                     200       25,200    5,040 000
arage                                      160        1,710       307,600
Roads                                       14       59,400       $361600
Enclosing walls                             50       S2,000    1,600'000
2. zQUnNT                                                    .         .10,606,000
V.14 Water Supply 8gton                 60,000           40    2,400,000
Aeratotrs                                  890        2,000    1,780,000
0.5 S Boilers                           30,000           26       640,000
Air Coepressors                           4,000          26       112,000
Pwus                                     6,000           60       480,000
_tandpby enerat(r                       30,000           40    1,200,000
Kisoellaueeou  Xquipmoat              S,084,000           1    5,084,000
TrIn pertatie  and Installation         912,000           1       912,000
3. EH2LOteB VACZLlSlBS                       630,000           1       630,000           650,000
4. TSAVUl I  EXYBSSES                        156,000            1      136,000           136,000
5. PEY8SCAL CCeSDC0CtBS                           102           1    5,865,702         5,865,702
6. YROJ8CT DE81I=                                  sx          1    1,759,711          1,759,711
7. MAEWA3S                                         52           1    1,759,711         1,759,711
II. 5000 T VISO=                                                                          1,664, 500
1. CIl! vow                                                                              758,250
Land Pucaseul                           10,000            a        8,0
Produetion Buildings                      2,          183         830,300
Vbsebc use                                 ^     50   1,525      212,000
GTarges                                    200           30         6,000
Water Tower                             53,000            1       55,000
Rood                                        15        5,200        41,600
Enclosiog WVll                             63          500       24,90O
2. UQUIPMST                                                                              546,500
Pull Set of Kill gqulpwt               475,500            1       475,500
bolivery Intallation end                73,000            1        73,000
Cow"ims"inn
5. WI8CEL*uXUS                               193,00oo0         1       193,000           193,000
4. 131Y10*AL CCU!I3SEICIE                          5t          1        74,977            74,977
5. 11R330 DESIGN                                   St           1       44,966            44,966
6. RAEAGDEET                                       35          1        44,986            44,986
1IT. 600 T ROAST EL PLAUI                                                                 4,2517,62
1. CIV  vso                                                                            1,734,"0
Land Purchas                            10,000           20       200,000
Productin Budins                           225        6,150    1,379,250
Road                                     4,000           14        56,000
iisecus                                 79,400            1        79,400
2. BQoIINEIS                                                                           1,768,500
Roasting Plant quip.ent               1,522,000           1    1,522,000
Delivery Instation and                 246,500            1       246,500
3. P8XIYSlCUACONSI C YYIS5 352,600                             1       352,600           552,600
4. PfXfMCA9Ws CM                                   5           1       191,767           191,787
S. PRARM  uszw  ~ ~     ~      ~      521                 115,072           115,072
6. WAARMU                                          5           1       113,072           115,07n



-94-                                                   ANN  3
Table 20
~~ uses - * z -
Co.t  attaste - 2wJhag Sol PeJeot ()
Rev ¢o;utm4tI
Vet i   ae    Qumntitr      Ameut               A_t
IV. CAR0 IAC0f                                                                              1,110,000
1. CeVl  IIOR                                                                              654.400
Loa  Plraebh                              10,000           5        50,000
Ptodu.tloa Duildht                           218        2,430       570,500
mIalIllan.w                               24,900            1        24, 900
2. EQUV                                                                                    267,600
C"toa Plant 3qu1_eat                    252,600            1       252,600
Deliwap Zutelltlo k ad                    15,000            1        15,000
3. 1     A                                     7,000             1        78,000            78,000
4. MsscAL   MI      _M                              ox                    5.0,000           30,000
S.   RD W mm                                                     1        soAoo             soAoo
v.                                              DSoL A ,"*
V CIVL 3W13S                                                                               763,040
Lend Plrohas                              10.000           10      100,000
-PitotDan Sutldigs                           2111       20 fO      5370,00
Sol Uoldlag Pond,                             40           "        216,640
,mtor S4pT1y  nd DLaohe*   8yStaa         20.000           1        20,000
Niacellemowa"                             459000            1        45,900
2. EQUIHUNU                                                                                512,000
-zO Plant                               448.000            1       448,000
eliwvery InatalletLea ft                  64.000           1        64,000
3. MIISCSLANU-                                219,000            1       219,000           219,000
4. MsICAL 0C03U1 3S3                                52           1        74,702            74,702
S. P10JEC DISIOU                                    52           1        44,621            44,821
6. NANAOUUU!                                        *2           1        44,321            44,821
VI. VIHICLUS A-  SUWIVA                                                                     3,174,040
Tguok, R    di"ted, 4 ?                 125,000           14     1,750,000
Tguck, 4?                                 $5,000          22       770,000
ruck, 0.75 !                             26,000           23       644,000
utlllty vehiole                           55,000           2       110,000
VII PRODUCMUORMA2RI=                           2,900,000            1    21,000000          2,9000000
82,906,715       62,906,715



usd  GI no      siu     u4
vat        Ui
OWL    Qty    A_t _    Q          Aw         t    Awt  --t              A U   _rAmut           ft       _mio        OW    A-WA
9tniwi                t            21|0  5,5m  ItM,SS000 l,tO   30,000    2010 5i,E0D00    So            40,000  10 0 211,0VO  SW     al,OII   *      ,730 2,450,Z00
PA    tI           t           20  3,600   8RB,000    570   it,100          50   UlmS                                                            4,220  "swo,m
1tw  bo                            220D             A       is o,   33,00      75   36,oo                                                              00   i0 t2,"
AOBU  CMML                   250  1,20    x0o,0D       soo    97,5eo      70   17,30                                                           I'm0    45,E00
suA   ps;p            t            SW     390   226,2Z                                                                                                3O   =GIU2Z
Caeid  PA"            t            3110    22S    85*00       n5    2,W        25    9,576                                                             32S    7X,m
ftiplf              t           til     so    atlB,7e                                      1,0110   sm,owe    s8o  34O,O0                         1,807 1M,2760
Meate.S21,160                                                  702,100     t    11,8007            oo       8    2D1W              6,00                Sli,OO eo ,,67
lh-                   as           tlO 21,000 1,60,00       70      ,oS       37    29,6                                                            2213  1,77,40
Dlemi*w               t            20       6,0010 1,210,000                1,44t  alS,000                                                          7,40  1,40,001
SAme                                         2,00,e000            Golan           3V,40                  O               O                O              3,230,400       
am_                   t            100 12,0l00 1,20,000                                      :4000   200,000  3,040 30,000                          17,0410 2l0,000l
gm                    t            no                                                        2,000   "30,000  glow0 32De00                           4000   XO,"00
1itm                  t            320  8,850 2,0=0003                                       1,000   320,00O                                         9A0  3,1W.,"0
wit by SS             t          3 ,600                      S5sosa 3016                                                                               as    0,o0
11 b   S"             t          U,700                      243   O,1g0                                                                               263   656,A100
AIt ea So             t          1,5D060                     m  00,4E10                                         62                                           "3,1DI
PIC ft                '03 "am me     0                       is      SIAMO                                                                             28      5,^
1-_w       -cmm       e0S0 mg  260,000                        1    ,"00                                                                                 1   ,030
msti gu               t         20,1000                       a    O0,000                                                                               a    40,00
PI bomb               t            goo    4"    4U8,90   1,OD0 9Do0,0                                                                                1,0  1,32%
I_esom                t          5,EeO                                         27     1z5,0D0 D                                                              135,100
_,er                                         *4,30,=5          2,20,100           235,00           aw,000          ,00                                     ,",
_                     ._           890                                                          10    8,9a0                                            10      8,93
Mlt*                   _                                                                     7' ,O0D   m,Xs                                         7,00D    MAW
,  tOB                                             X,OD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ,350                            X,"   b.
1mI,5=300010                                                                       300            249,29             _200            26,00                 .0002



-  u    a
htdls of Vata1mo and 3iSpm  - J1wo  Pw         MWO
SE              Eam                           m L  t _ LAm                         w =.    msm.
hit -                                                       ____
out  qr       hiatl   qty     INA            T hia     f,     htmI   *r    html         2F       t        QtV     swaL
b,*Sit                         35,000   91 3,23,000               0                      2    73,000   n2  43,000          1    355,000    206 5,nos72
Ic  3                _         41,000                   26 1,096,000                   2s  1,0,0                           9    0,00        SO 2,40,005
thlUW _44.1*         as3M   23  1.00,6100    17   6 4400                                17  f9,400                         4   2,0          06 2,50,10
_zoa       o05,000   is i,s.oo,ee            o                     a   mo,=                                    0       2  2a,no,m
TA*, umfg*.-         -        I23000                    5   40,000                                a                        5   ca,0lm       30 1.30.000
6,244S,600      2,25,40                         2,M6,400         4u,000           1,06,10          12.641,100
1! wa_                          1,30  59    ,100,I,                                                                                        3      7M,20
P     bom_                      $,000                   2    10,000                                                                          2    10,000
-                               4,110  230    m,40    25    06,550                                        20,9"0
A--"                 _2,M0 1,200 2,705,000                                                                                                lo,go 0,75,0*0
1ACOUI                                   5,271,400         104.520                                                                            5,,210
Nedpm and mobd=
_                    es        92,750    1    92,750                                                                                         1    U,170
hl2t anid mU         a -a    , 13,30    1   2,                                                                                               1   26,30
ha  fad              urn      259,700                    1   2,700                                                                           1   299,700
36  2~  tll          m      1,1m,6                                                      1 1,1,5                                             1 1,18,5                      I
I_p pINMs_           as       328,94?                                   19 6,a9,                                                            19 6,29,
ht pM&MIin Li        am       30O,47                              0                      1   203,470                                         1   305,473
T       .ipai        am    2,430,t00                              0                      1 2,430,050                                         1 2,430,30
CAn p &wt    . U,    am     2,296,219                             0                      1 2,296,U                                           1 2,M,319
.ASn poktS    11*.am    5,06,440                                                                         1 5,060440                          1 5,0,40
D ss          _dp.  am      5.43,000                                                     1 5,43,00                                           1 3,6IO,41000
Do   oIsSt  Owtp. am    1,500,00                                                         1 1,500,000                                         1 2,300,060
1N* E      ld amm    2,75130                                                                                               1 2,MM,30         1 2,732,3
s  v_o. .,4u.  a-           S"m9,                                         5.279,300                                                 1           5,s,slo
_a PLM               am     1,39,044-                                                                                     1 1,859,044        1 1,39,064
d   -It plum         am        52,42                                                                                      1     5,42         1    53,424
-           PI S            1,30,39                                                                                        1 1,30,09         1 1,90I 0,I' 9
SO01W kit pga21int  am         6,30                                                                                       1   306,02,        1   23,43
Meatmt                                     456,520         259,700      6,29,9#         21,3n,32        S,060,440         22,368,32          35,741,074
11,812,520      2,394160        6,249,9         3,9"5,2         SA,6.0            23,3502           "8, 40



camw
ODWL  LAMB DUYZLWKT PRJC
Detaila of Major  Aterils - bj ian
DM01                UN.  EICWL    TIDW3AJ         SKAG                   ML                       T@OTL
Unlt    Unit   --------------- - --   ---------- - -----       ---------------- - --
C"t         Qty    Total            Qty      Total          Qty    Total            Qty'  Total           Qty   Am.t
(15)                 (15$)                    (15$)                  (15$                   (55$                   (15$)}
Caustrution Materias
Steel vtl              t         260       1,00  538,000            700   182,000            250   65,000           400 106,000          2,650   689,000
Rolled ateel           t         100         500  150,000           750   22S,000            185   55,500           100  50,000          1,5)5  *40,500
Stal bars              t         250         500  125,000           Soo    75,000             50   12,500             0        0           550  212,500
Alalo stoel            t         265          80   21,200           100    26,500             50   15,250           100  26,500            330   87,450
Steal bas, tbrea"de    t         600         100   60,000             0          0             0        0             0        0           100   60,000
Steal plate            t         540         s00  170,000            10      5,400           20    6,800              0        0           530  1*0,200
SinLess steel pip      t         510         100   51,000           100    51,000             50   25,500           200 102,000            450  229,500
OalawnaLa4d stoel pip   t        400          50   20,000            50    20,000            100   40,000           150  60,000            550  140,000
Subtotal                                      "5,200                   502,900                218,550                522.500               2,059,150
Timber                 .3        108         200   21,600           300    32,400                                              0           500   54,000
Cable                  t       1,550          25   53.750            25    35,750             10   15,500            15  20,250             75  101,250
subtotal                                       55.550                   66,150                 15,500                 20,250                 155,250
Ptoducstio Materials                                                                                                                                               %
Pisbasal               t         550       1,000  $50,000         1,000    150,000         1,000   550,000          800 280,000          5,600 1,330,000
PiC                    t         800         200   1600             200    160,00            200   160000                      0           600  480,000
Feralated oal go"      t       2,500                                             0                                  100 250,000            100  250,000
Subtotal                   2,850              510,000                  510,000                 510,000               530,000               2,060,000
TOTML                                                 1,500,550               1,159,050                742,050                872,750               4,274,400



ca
COASTAL LAMDS DYLOPT PROJECT
Derals of VehiLets end tquipmemt - Zhe*j ng Povnce (yua)
Unit       DAWTU           KAONX               Mm la             Ets                  TOTAL
cost  --------------  ----- --------_-_   -------_-___   _________ ----_________--____  -- ---
(uan)  QtY      Total    Qty      total     Qty     Total      Qty      Total        Qty     Total
Constuetion Equipment
Tugboats, 13-185  P                 100,000   2   200,000                                                                  2   zoo,0o0
xarge, 20 a                          75,000  10   750,000                                                                 10   750,000
Uozkboat, 4O P                       20,000   1    20,000                                                                  1    20,000
woakboat, 24 S                       10,000   1    10,000                                                                  1    10,000
Verticl  sad drain rlg               50,000   4   200,000                                 -                                     200,00
Jack-up plattfo, 150 x 20 a         100,000   2   200,000                                                                  2   200,000
Dres, 1.5 es                        500,000   1   500,000                                                                  1   500,000
D"4ed, stlo                         200,000   1   200,000                                                                  1    00,000
Concrete skip, I as                  10,000  20   200,000                                                                 20   200,.000
7Xon_-md loadr                      150,000   1     ,000                                                                   1   150,000
MNeslUmd eoamvator, LoP             2a0,340             0                         3   601,020                              3   601,020
Subtatal                                     2,430,o00 ,01,020                                                            3l1,020
Trck, rerigeated, 2 ?                7,000   1    75,000        1    75,000       2   150,000                              4   300,100
Trk, refrigerated, 4 T              125,000   1   125.00        1   125,000       2   250,000        14 1,750,000         18 2,250,000
Track, 3S T                          3,000   5   1S,000         2    70,000      11   285,00         22   70,000          40 1,400,000
Track, 0.75 T                        28,000  23   "4,000        2    56,000      12   $36,000        23   644,000         60 1,680,000
Utillty vehicle.                     55,650  10   556,500       1     5S,650      5   278,250         2   111,300         18 1.001,700
Aubulae                              60,000   1    60,000                                                                  1    60,000
Tuck  e                             200,00    1   200,000                                                                  1   2o00000
Lowbed trailer                      100,000   1   100,000                                                                  1   100,000
Subtotal                                     1,935,500           381,650         1,3S9,250           3,275,300            6,991,700
Beat, feed transport                150,000   2   300,000       2   300,000       5   750,000                              9 1,350,000
Pond wvkboets                         1,800  162   291,600    100   180,000     259   44,200                             521   937,800
Tractor.                             5,000                     10    50,000                                               10    50,000
Subto&l                                        591,600          530,000          1,216,200                                2.337,800
Equipment and ac4hnery
Toed mill equipomnt                 294,800   1   296,800                         1   296,800                              2   593,600
Contact freezer                     74,200                     4   2%,800        11   816,200                             15 1,113,000
Refrigerator (fr eer)                89,040                                                           6   534,240          6   534,240
Refrigerator (freezer)              103,880                                                           2   207,760          2   207.760
Sel roastin  equipmnt               452,620                                                           2   905,240          2   905.240
Ar eer                                 890                                                        2,000  1.780,800     2,000 1,780,800
Subtotal                                      a2W,800           296,800          1,113,000           3,428,040            5,134,640
TOTAL                                               5,253,900         1,208,450          4,329,470          6,703,340            17,495,160
la  newly Eocloed Tielads
U!l



CO0AS   LADS  -S 
Cost Estimate and rImeIn  of Ttainlmg   Teohnical Asalstao  - JLaU Pxcvime
Ibaicg of rn-nths by calodr year           Total
---------  - --------------------  _t-  Total Cost      Pp@osd Cotmtrle
1968    1999    1990        199      _utb   Cub  loo00)
A. STLUVY TOU2S
NarmoUlture
FrODeSSUIaS marketing and packnsgng                                                    4            6      Wetted Staten    Sugexpe
Lammr .uLtuze                                                                          3           16     JaPan
Eet eulturean IProcessing                      S                                       3           16     Japan
w-OM eulttu   m  ptoee  sng                    S                                       s           11     red"., MOLL"
Cold ntor"s aMt fee" pveoeaaIn                 5                                       s          20      D ain& a" vast comma
G.aaxtuu.So  of "es Sod .hmela                 3                                       S           20      -
Mut Processing tebaology and mzbeting                   S                              S          20      J"
imilt processin  t.eooLamw am   *.stin     s                                           S          so      Neat 6e   wand Wetted State
butt oold aterage,                             5                                       S           so     iapen and italY
A  Neleabaudzy
coast La  detelopm.at pceotL.e                 2                                       2           10
coat raising teotmaology                       2                                       2           20
Poultry r"Aisin  techology                     2                                       a           la
Wink raising teeatehy                          2                                       2          20
Neat rabbit raising teo1ogyi                   2a                                                  20
Cammed feod procesing toebmalog                        a                               2           20
?megyV techn"Ge                                         S                              5          so
FMr Prseesing teoeaology                                                                          s
Dow  sossy tedoalow                                    3                               S           so
Aguiolture t.etlogy Dewelep.et
-e"*                                                   4                               4           so
Sesbeani                                               4                               42
Aspaags"                                                a                              2           6
Serology Test Mi                                       4                               4          2
Subtotal - mzsraas study tor                 5      28        00                    63511
3.   urchs. of Patent rghs BIteohboalog
patent Ctihts - sairiap to"d                                                                      15
Patent rights  shriap feed                                                                        5
Subtotal - Patents adtechnology                                                                 67
C. Technical Assisantm
AspaIrem                                                                                           6
Serolog*                                                                               3          20
Subtotal - technical assist                                                                     26
TOTL                                                                                                  13 S2-



camk
COASTAL LWM  -BMCNr   wRJC
Det-il, of TralaiIn  and Teohajel Assistane - zhejian
Ph-asi  of ..mn-aatbs by calendar year     Total
------------ -------------------------      ,m-  Total Cost        Propose  Cotria.
1988     199     1999       1991      moths   (u  '000)
A. STWDI TOURS
Naricutur
P-cs*si; mkettas anA p,&GaulgaS              2.5      2.5                             5.0           33      united States nd mucope
eclanatio  enim.ri4                          3.S                                      S.5           23      Umtbsulands
?rocea.jn  equipment                         2.0      2.0                             4.0           26      Dem* and Jap*a
I.  OVUSS TRAUIN
Shrim  fat mmuemnt                          12.0    18.0    12.0                     42.0           84      VnIted States and Ibrep.
Food 9orl-tLm                                6.0      6.0                            12.0           24      United States and Euope
Shriop mtritio  and pro"ai                  2.0      2.0                             4.0            8      unIte Stat" and 8Uoe
70.5          197
II!



O   URM AS   Dcnm      o
Dmtalls .1 1m          m f1a   swintItm"= in~ J1m cin)
-                                                                                 - 
~~~~~~~~~~~- -   U
Dn   =Aszl            TheaL   Dimt  h-Im    Unit oo            UtaL      At     UM         Oft GM  e ta
-        to)            (tif)           ( )    Cf )               M)             C )    CO)               MAO
I. W
Pza&m21  t.~tqaa                             1   I,000      lO2     ?*.000          !   2,0          0    500,000             1   1.0        100   250,000
1mam1a_                                      1      4    00  110    0,000            1      400      110    40,000             1     SW       100    10000
1     400      1o      00,0o0           1      200 2o     0 l   0,000            1      200      100   s5,000
Uum.iSz4 mi a1 wu*mdm _                                                                      40      250    10,o00             s       30       0      7.400
200,M a0Do2,                                                                     2,M            s,. o
a. |
P1oSa  todrAqu*                              a       10      200      2,000          2      30       200    70,000             a      50        0    5.000
1m qmUz  wALgt                              13        2    1,300      2,400          0   1 0   1,000    20,000                10   X c    1,000    30,000
-od Imarnlaw                                                              0                                       0           5       40      so0    50000
4,40                                                      100.000              20.0            04,40
PWO&U1mi  -omq                                                                                                                 1      30      100    50.00
wazo 9qm117 rnI4ysl                                                                                                           10      50   1,000    50.000
Vmmunalaa                                                                                                                      2     3    00  400.000
S        c _ n ~ _                                                                                                            1       XO      so        smO
10 200        169.00
is 18                                                                  204,G0          18                      370,000           16                     497,300      1,0n.o0
EU1



ks of  gzd
-~ ~~~~~~r       ~                                                            -                                                                   -
W ONTL UMon                                                                                                          EIL
-1      Ta ?Sm   Ut mOSt   T         Ae m   km                  Tm           *   mm    aft  -t bL             _        2 m  ads *Mt    m41
(1u)  () -                 )-   (M)  C)                                 (d)  cm) -cm)-                           )        )
mm-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
I. ~
A. a-            - 1u9 C
1. ~nP  pu.agi         I (W)lk        24       6   2,000   12,000          S      10   1,500    5.000          24       21   2000  21,t00
2. h     -7_c     tod1 C)             12       2   1,mD    2,000           5       a   I,s       3,000         12       2   1,000    2,000
3. Uagby pz_ s2    (ZC)               22       3   1,0       3,000         5       4   1,500    6,000          12       2   1,000    2,0
4. Mmbibs CZ. 13s 011l_)              12       3   1,000    3.000          5       2   1i0    3,000            12       4   1.500    e.0
S. U        _Su Sm 
Cl. As11-    0 11 )              24       2   1.000    4,000          5       3   1.50     4,50         ,2         2   2,000    4,0
6. Pa         (3. M                                                                                            1O )  at  2   1,50O    3,000
kmal.26,000                                                                              31,5300                              41,000
S. Tur<N  for V9*&ZW
humtUn    -                                                             1     240     300   02   lb                                                                          o
B2*Y -                                                                  1   50  200  9,0o01o
X141 a       & pu.maszt                                                 1      G0      0      ,000 IdI
*a,tl                                                                                      *000
C. VASO
1. siap fad &1*im (am/&                                                                         50,000
2.  Amw paelm (am)                                                                              50.0
S. WcwT                a.N                                                                      20,Wo
4.    ppaIVA            (am1)                                                                   10,000
S.  E     X pem_omt (L. FV1*im .. 3                                                             30,000
6.  Ulp   1am) Lad (363)                                           .2,000
&hbeotal                                                                                   180,000                                    0
1. -Al twinZ: -    t                                                                                                                                 2     319     350  a3
Tom )U       IA*M                        8             7,00                  28                   10,00          la8                   0,.000           2                   130,230
wC- a2Mji7   aw 
- fzLw4g _nw    fsbt.a bs.v r.
lb     F    PlAmids)
/,- **Jmiluw ib Vldulaa 2agagek lit.
Id   Dai      FLduy Xp. Q", sAo=
I.t



- 103-
ANNEX[ 6
Page 1
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Productgion Technigues - Mariculture and Mink
Xar.iodture
1.       Shrimn:   Shrimp farms, ranging in size from 20 to 866 ha, would
be comprised of clusters of 2-3.3 ha ponds. The farm would contract with
households for pond operation--generally about 1.67 ha to a worker.
Shrimp production would be based on Ienaeus orientalis, the techniques of
which would be similar in both provinces. The project would provide nine
hatcheries in Jiangsu and three in Zhejiang. Hatcheries would be operated
for a three-month period from March to May. Brood shrimp would be
collected from the wild; spawning (about 40,000 seeds/female) would take
place in large indoor tanks. The fertilized eggs hatch into nauplii
larvae, go through the stages of zoea and mysis before metamorphosing into
postlarvae. Microencapsulated larval shrimp feed is unavailable, and
h,atchery production would depend solely on natural food. Not being
sensitive to light as some of the other penaeids, zoea of this species can
be cultured in tanks together with their food organisms (diatomes).
During the mysis and early postlarval stages, the bulk of the food is
naipili of the brine shrimp (Artemia). About 20 days after hatching the
postlarvae reach the 0.7-1.0 cm size used for stocking.
2.       In mid-May, prior to stocking, ponds would be filled with 60 cm
of water, sterilized with tea seed cake and fertilized with urea (0.3
t/ha), chicken manure (0.15 t/ha), or steer manure (0.3 t/ha). Around the
end of May, ponds would be stocked with 0.7-1.0 cm shrimp seeds at the
rate of 300,000/ha. In July and August, as the shrimp biomass increases
and as waste accumulates in the system, from 10-158 of the pond water
would be replaced daily. In late October, ponds would be drained and
shrimp collected by attaching a net bag to the drain pipe.  From the
initial stocking of 300,000 seeds, about 97,500 individuals would be
harvested--a survival rate of about 33%. The main differences between the
growing conditions in the two provinces are that (1) Zhejiang is expected
to have less of a problem with growth cessation during the hottest summer
months since water supplies would be directly from the sea and thus water
temperature would be lower and (2) Zhejiang, lying further to the south,
has a two week longer growing season than Jiangsu.
3.       Currently most of the feed applied to shrimp ponds is in the form
of fresh, frozen or dried trash fish and molluscs, with a very high
conversion factor and accumulation of waste in the system. Some
additional feed is produced by small on-farm pelletizers from ground,
dried trash fish, soybean cake and grains, with the composition depending
upon availability of raw material at the time. The quality of feed is
inconsistent and inferior and waste of raw materials is high. Although
the quantity of trash fish and molluscs in the provinces is abundant, the
supply is not consistent and hence, the feeding regimen is erratic. An
important part of the project would be the introduction of controlled
feeding practices and pelletized feed. As a result of the deeper ponds
and better water control provided under the project, average yields are
expected to increase from, about 0.9 tA.a to 1.95 t/ha by the third year of



- 104 -
Page 2
production. The yield structure in Jiangsu is projected to be ab
ut 30% in the 13-16 cm size range, 50% in the 10-13 cm range and 20% in
the 8-10 cm range; in Zhejiang, it Is projected to be 48% in the 13-16 cm
size range and 52% in the 10-13 cm range--slightly larger on account of
the longer growing season. Total incremental production at full
development would be around 12,200 t in Jiangsu and 2,700 t in Zhejiang.
4.       Farmers would coordinate harvesting schedules with the cold
storage plant, which would arrange transport from pond-side to the cold
store. At the cold store, processing involves sorting, washing, deheading
and freezing. About 70% of the shrimp are expected to meet the size
requirements for export (10.5 cm in Jiangsu and 12 cm in Zhejiang) and
would be processed in headless, shell-on fo.m. The remainder would be
sold unprocessed in the local market. The levels of processing
mechanization, management and technical skills, and quality control are
generally low. Improved plant design and modern equipment to be provided
under the project would help to remedy some of these problems; improving
quality would be an issue for the working group on marketing.
5.       Laver is a leafy edible seaweed, better known by its Japanese
name, nori.  The species to be cultivated under the project is Pofrhra
yAzoensis Ueda. Porphyra has a two-stage life cycle--the conchocelis
stage and the thallus (edible) stage. In late winter or early spring,
mature thalli produce carpospores which attach to the shells of molluscs,
germinate and penetrate through the calcareous matrix and develop into the
filamentous conchocelis. Following this is the development of
conchosporangia which produce conchospores. Early in the fall, when the
temperature drops, conchospores are released from the mollusc shells,
settle onto another substrate and develop intc the leafy thalli.
6.       Cultivation of Porphyra involves an indoor nursery stage for the
rearing of conchocelis and an outdoor production stage for the growth of
edible thalli. In the nursery phase, around the first of March, mature
thalli are selected and placed in concrete tanks lined with hard clam
shells. The thalli release carpospores which germinate and grow in the
hard clam shells. About 1 sq m of nursery tank is needed for every mu of
laver culture; tanks are generally 7-8 sq m in size. With regular water
changes and manual cleaning of algal growth from the shells, the
conchocelis begin to release conchospores in September. When the density
of conchospores in the nursery tanks :eaches an adequate level, pieces of
5 sq m thalli culture nettings are suspended in the nursery tanks for
conchospores to attach. Seeding is completed in hours, when the settled
conchospores on the netting material reaches adequate density. The
process continues until early October.
7.       The seeded nettings are then removed and mounted in series of
10-20 onto a bamboo raft. The rafts, supported by legs, are anchored
through a rope in the lower part of the intertidal mudflat with the series
of nettings oriented perpendicular to the coastline. During low tide the
rafts sit on the stustrate and during high tide they float in the water.
Every ha of culture surface requires 7 ha of gross area. Conchospores on
the nets germinate into thalli. The first harvest can be performed in
early December when the thalli reach a length of about 0.3 m. Harvesting
is carried out manually during low tide. Thereafter, the nets are
harvested every two weeks until late spring. Early harvests yield about



- 105 -
ANNEX 6
Patg 3
1,050 kg/ha, increasing up to 1,950 kg/ha toward the end of the season,
with an average of 1,500 kg/ha for each of ten harvests. Annual yield is
about 15 t/ha in vet weight or 1.5 t/ha in dried form after processing.
Processing facilities for automated washing and drying of laver would be
provided for each 10-15 ha, generally within 1/2 hr distance from the
culture sites.
8.       &I.  The species used for eel culture in China is the Japanese
eel, Anguilla jaRonica, a catadromous species (grows in freshwater but
migrates to the sea for spawning). The larval eel (leptocephali) spend
about six months in the sea before returning to freshwater. Upon
reaching an estuarine environment, they begin to metamorphose from the
transparent and extremely compressed leptocephalus body form into the
eel-like body form. At the intermediate point of metamorphosis, they have
acquired a transparent eel-like body form and are called glass eels. At
this point, they are collected in estuaries by fish farmers. 1ithin about
a week, the glass eel acquires dark pigmentation and is then called an
elver. Technically, it is still impossible to produce elver in hatcheries
and all eel culture makes use of seeds of wild origin. Glass eel of A,
iagonica occur only along the coast of China, Korea, Japan and Taiwan.
Still, Japan and Taiwan depend heavily on glass eel and elver imported
from Korea and China.
9.       The Japanese eel is a warm-water species, growing only when water
temperature is above 20 degrees C. To compensate for having only a five
month growing season, eel production in Jiangsu makes use of enclosed
ponds and warm water from deep wells, supplemented with artificial
heating, to maintain water temperature within the range of 25-28 degrees C
year round. Eel culture is characterized by a combination of enclosed and
outdoor ponds in a series of different sizes, frequent grading, thinning
and transfer from one pond to another, and multiple size-selective
harvests without any definite seasonality. With aeration and continuous
water replacement, very high stocking density can be maintained. Glass
eel are stocked into the system during February, Narch and April when they
occur in abundance in the elver fisheries. Repeated grading by size is
carried out. From June to October, larger eels are transferred into
outdoor ponds for their final grow out. In late October, underaized eel
are transferred back into enclosed ponds for overwintering. Japanese eels
have highly variable growth rates--fast growers reach market size (150-200
g) in less than 12 munths from glass eel stage, while slow growers may
take more than 24 months. Annual yield is expected to be 4.8 kg/m2 of
enclosed pond and 15 t/ha from outdoor ponds. Both provinces would have
in addition to the standard combination of outdoor and enclosed ponds,
some ponds using slow-flowing power plant waste water (10 ha in Jiangsu
and 40 ha in Zhejiang). By using heated waste water from the power plants,
supplemented with steam from boilers, and cold surface water from
reservoirs during the summer, water temperature will be maintained year
round at 25 - 28 degrees C. The daily rate of water replacement would be
1000 in the winter and 150% during the summer. With proper scheduling of
pond usage in the system and with periodic grading and thinning every
three to six.weeks, yield is projected to be 45 t/ha in Jiangsu and 52.5
t/ha in Zhejiang using the heated flowthrough system. Total annual
production would be 1,660 t in Jiangsu and 3,150 t in Zhejiang.



- 106 -
Page 4
10.      Once harvested, the eel would be held in clear running water for
about 48 hours to condition them for transport. After conditioning, 7.5
kg of market eel would be sealed in a plastic bag with oxygen, water and
ice. The bags would be packed two to a box and delivered to the airport
at a designated time for direct shipment to Japan.
ML%k
11.      ThIe main rationale for this component is the availability of
suitable feed (trash fish, goat and rabbit offal) and an existing industry
of fairly hlgh standard. About 75% of the commercial w'ink would be raised
at the four existing breeding farms to be improved under the project. In
addition, about 90 farm households would be organized into groups of ten,
with each group reL.-,nsible for raising 3500 animals.  The mink breeding
year is characterized by the seasonal work to support production: care of
the animals from December to March, mating season in March, parturition
and lactation in April-May, weaning in June, real growth from July to
September, moulting in September-November, and pelting in
November-December. Essentially responsive to day length, the minks'
mating season is in early- to mid-March. The average gestation period is
about 49 days with births occurring in late April to early May   The
average litter size is 5.1 kits/female with 3.2 surviving to pelting age
of eight months. Slaughter is accomplished by injection of chloral
hydrate (40% solution) into the abdominal cavity or inhalation of carbon
monoxide.
12.      Viability of mink production is dependent on suitable strains of
animals, reproductive performance, feeding and disease resistance.
Genetic disposition, mainly, and feed quality and environment, secondly,
determine color and quality of fur growth with intensity of color of the
guard hairs and underfur being essential characteristics of commercial
value of pelts. Size of the dnimals--and thus of the skin--is also an
important commercial characteristic. The condition for size is good
development from birth to grading time, and a good size at weaning is thus
the principal criterion of good skin size. Size is the easiest single
actor to breed since it is about 40% genetically determined.
13.      Successful mink farming is dependent on breeding animals with
good hereditary characteristics, the availability of good quality feed,
adequate professional skill of the mink breeder and necessary equipment
for raising. The greatest risks to mink production are susceptibility to
viral infections, particularly plasmocytosis (Aleutian disease),
pathogenic bacteria, parasites, fungal infections and chemical toxins.
Few hereditary diseases affect mink production, but aggressive behavior by
siblings or cage mates is a frequeni source of injuries and pelt damage.
At full development, annual project production would be about 140,000
animals. In the past, a major shortcoming in production efficiency was
the lack of grading facilities--pelts were sold to the Foreign Trade
Commission without regard to quality. However, recently grading
procedures have been set up to give farmers more incentive to upgrade care
of animals and resulting pelt quality.                   I



con
OA$STL LSD  D      E T 1 r
Fe  gste Prices for Major Product ad  mnput.
(and 1967 Tamitoo)
_____-Shrp  - - -----------     Sbhrq               Shr-p
Jiansn            Zhe iang              F.ed la             Seed            gel               Luver
(!Y10,000)
Net Trade Status lb                              XK                                                                               K                 I
son      Fin      son      via         Zen      win      son       win          Ion      via      Io       Fin
1988 price
Impost Pric  (8)12,00
Oenfn Frelet (8)                                                                                                              1,650
Cli or POB SansghaL t8)                      6,630              7,e70                                                       10,350              7,978
CO1  or 100 gWuanghL (Y)                    24,597   21,789   28,642    23,789         868      732                          38,3 9            29,G
Pert carge"  & distributor's mergl         (2,756)  (2,756)  (2,756)  (2,756)         137      117                          (3,840)           (2,960)
Transport:  Fort to mholesaler                (175)    (175)    (175)    (175)                                                 (125)             (12S)
Transports  Fs   to ioleosaler                 (25)      (25)     (25)     (25)                                                (125)             (.125)
Pri  ex-m"ill                               21641   18,835   25,500   20,833         1.000      849                          34,309            26,390  20.400
Proceasing edjuat   t                          0.0      0.6       0.6      0.0                                                    0            0.0343  0.0543
arnseate pri'ce () to                       12,9a5   11,300   15,300   12,508                             40       25 Id   34,309  28,333         905      700
t  sed. on following ccmpositins                   Priae (itkg)         --- - ----Case-
Fin      S.a   Qtwlt       FLn        Roca
Soybea ca_                                    0.90     0.67      550    495.0        365.8
Fresh trash fish                              0.70     0.59      250    175.0        147.0
lbeat flowe                                   0.60     0.89      130      78.0       116.2
Rice bran                                     0.40     0.S4       80      32.0        26.9
Ibeat bran                                    0.37     0.31      110      40.7        34.2
Mallusean shall powder                        0.08     0.07        30      2.5         2.1
Additives                                     1.32     1.32       30      39.7        39.7
Transport end other                                                      137.0       117.0
999.9       848.9
lb X - expert, K - import
to Based on following Si" and price assumptiot:                 Averge               Jlengra  Zb*J a-s
COmmt/    Price      Price             --X in Sae rme--
Size In CO                                600 g    (US$tkg)
>10                                       21-25       12.75
14-14                                     26-40        9.45     9.82                  0.30     0.48
13-14                                     41-50        7.25
12-13                                     51-00        0.75
11-12                                     01-70        5.80     5.68                  0.50     0.52
10-11                                     71-90        4.S0
8-9                                       91-110       4.20     4.20                  0.20        0
Weiehted *ver price (8/kg)       86.6s3    7.67
Yusar4                           24.58   28.45                                                             I
Yuanit                          24,585   28,446
Yuen/t with beads               14,722   17,033
/d Same ratio i, adult shrimp



-108 -                                 ANNE  7
Table 2
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVEPMHENT PROJECT
Farm gate Prices for Fruits, Vegetables and Animals /a
Unit Farm gate price
(Yuan)
Fruits and Nuts
Grape                   t         540
Hawthorn                t       1,500
Apple                   t         700
Peach                   t         300
Pear                    t         300
Ginkgo                  t       5,000
Chestnut                t       1,600
Anials
Kink                  pelt         90
Goat                   kg         4.0
Rabbit                 kg         2.8
Duck                   kg         2.8
Fish                    t       3,600
/a  Used for financial and economic analysis



-109-
AM 7
Table 3
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs /a
Conversion Factor
Electricity /b                                   0.88
Rail transport                                   0.99
Road transport                                   0.87
Construction /c                                  1.07
Equipment                                        1.09
Consumption Conversion Factor /d                 1.13
Farm labor /e                                    0.57
/a     Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S. Ichishima and
A. Wood, "Economic Analysis of Aluminum Milling in Shanghai, (mimeo,
May 1982). The update used the exchange rate at negotiations of
Y3.71/US$1.00; 1987 domestic prices; international price projections
for 1987 in current prices from EPD, "Macro and Financial
Assumptions and Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts,"
Internal Memorandum, January 17, 1987; and 1985 Chinese import or
export prices from 1986 Chinese Statistical Yearbook (Beijing: State
Statistical Bureau, 1986) and Hong Kong Trade Statistics 1985 (Hong
Kong: Census and Statistics Department, 1986).
lb     Economic price based on the long run marginal cost of thermal power
at the retail level, from AEPEN, Staff Appraisal Report: China -
Second Power Project, Annex 19.
/c     Based on 1987 conversion rates for unskilled, technical and
supervisory labor, steel, timber, cement, machinery, and nontraded
goods or services of 0.57, 2.26, 1.13, 0.80, 1.16, 1.11, 1.09, and
1.33 respectively (see note /a).
/d     Weighted average of ratios of projected 1987 economic to financial
prices for rice, wheat, corn, vegetable oil, pork and other animal
products, fish, sugar, and beverages. The weights are based on 1985
consumption patterns in Sichuan.
/a     Fifty percent of the market wage times the consumption conversion
factor.



am=  mS   M =yn
SMAUT -  r
Yw 1       2      3      4   5         6      7      5       9     10     1      12     1s     14    15      16     17 18 - 19    so
Anm-lst yw  0()                   2,5n    990    39u       0      0
-1 d                                  2,513    -      39N     0
-3d yw                                       2,573  3,62
-4* yaw  Ac                                                3,3     335   3,3S  3,05  3,35  3,35  3,35  3,35  3,35  3,     3,35  3,5   S,35  3,5  3,35
In  1                               2,573  3,630  3,3S   3,3    3,35  3,35  3,3    3,35  3,35  3,351  3,35  3,3    3,25   3,35  3,35  3,35   3*,3   3,35  3#,3
Yild (aut)                        1,3m   IAN   1,10  11,950  1,950  l,ff l ,f f 1 ,9S      1,0  1,30  1,     1,30  1,901 30  1,950  1,     1.930  1.30  1,'0
Pta1im (C)                    -3,05   5,433  7,1    7,59  7,78  7,7    7,728  7,71   7,718  ,7l  7,2   7,78   ,7    7,?8  7,728  7,728 7,78  7,718  7,728
mm   _11 ('0  Tim)              4      ,111  70,5ff   ,0 IS,= 10     m 0,220 ooM  3 00,o o     io,n  20,no mo,2   IOD,22D i0o,0 m0,m2 iw,22 lOD,20 lao,in iO,Z  w,o0
ownYAW.= p a                                    33215,551   19,8012 31,373 a,'i 2s,m   2s,2  25,21 25,3m  25,m  25,3m  2S,m   2,m  2s,m   25,3  2S,2  2S,3   25,2  25,3   25,
-e('(0u ('M        lb            53,941  1,847  ,30                                         -_O
FlA                             11,89 22,69*  30,119 3,297  2      3,280  32,805 32,805 32,.80  22,805 32,80   3,802  32,3   32,85 32,810  32,8SU  32,80 l2 3,    32,80
sad                             2,840  4,M   5,218  5,407  5,4f2  5,462  5,405  5,45U 5,462  5,405  5,40   5,40   5,462  5,462  5,462f,42 5,46   5,462  5,6
tw                              X3,162  4,487  5,015  5,03   5,032  5,032  5,03     5,03  5,3  3,03   5,032  5,032 5,032  5,032  5,0    5,03   3032  5,03   5,032
2,213  3,064  3,404  3,40   3,404  ,40   3,406  3,4  3,404  3,404  3,404  3,404  3,404  3,404  3,404  3,406  3,404  3,404  3,404
ading                           2,977  4,=   4,50  4,8   4,38   4,50  4,580  4,580  4*0  4,550  *.4   4,550  4,580  4*W   450  4,5W   4,3   *4,50  4  
-ma-  1bkht 1ita                7,M   *,829  1,193       0      0      0                                                                                      C13,880)      1
9al                             20,30 43,495 49,3   50,720 5179 51,279 5179 51,279 51,279 5,279 51,279 51,279 51,279  1,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51.279 37,49
m a                             84,709 105,142 SB,056 50,720 51,27951,279 51,279 51,   51,279 51,27 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,27  37,419
(5Skt oS )                           0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0
- -
am" Ra                           40,086 70,56 92,510 93,S0 *,  200,      0 M100 ,220 100,220 100,220 100,22D 10,20 10,22D 100,220 100,30 100,220 100,0 100,22D .20,20 1n0,30
,A-
S      0 c2s                     84,769 105,142 8s.as6 50,20 51,t9 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 51,279 37,419
mtm                             (44,81)(34,96) 4,4534 470,   48,940 48,940 45,640 4,940 48,940 48,940 48,940 4,940  48,940 48,940 48,990 46,940 48,900 48,940 62,600
185          15       SNt Ps   Vl  at 122   184,518
37.8 X(CT'000)
I. WL1.tim  pmject tit inmm  fxm mclMand lad amad to apel~ mm~
lb 1!d c*t-tim    141,97
bodk u Sam  t        3,817
Vil s                7,996
Tm4n, adA8                                                                                                                                                         I !



m- w
in.      -        -      mow, I         .
lTrW       2      s      4      5      6       7      8      9     10     1      12    13    14       is    25         71-19    20
t        (ha)                 2,57    990    396      0      0
-2od yen                             2,5n     990    396      0
-3zd you                                     2,573  3,562
-4th you  ed m,    3,9B                                              8  3,9958  S,95B  3,998  3,050  3,98  3,9,8  3,998   3,998   3,998  38 03.938 3,98  3,958
tL al                               2,573  3,563  3,98  3,0   3,99    ,838  3,938  3,993   3,M8  3,9"8  3,WB  3,f    3,298  3,99   3,98  3.8  3,9   3,98
T1d (IAJ)                         1,200  1,650  1,950 1.0  1,M   1,950  1,950  1,0  1,f0  1m   1m   1,0  1,00  1.O        f          1, 0  1,0  1,90  I,'   1,9"
It     a (S)                      3,087  5,433  7,126  7,599  7,71   7,718  7,718  7,718  7,718  7,718  7,718  7,718  7,718  7,71   7,728  7,718  7,728  7,718  7,78
a         no m 0D               34,6 61,3   80306 S,83  87,253 8,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215   ,21587,Z         8W215 87,215 87,215
O.am R. PM ha                  13,60  17,233 20,4  21,696 22,0Q  23.035 22,035 22,035 22,035 22,035 22,035 22,035 22,035 2.3  22,.05 33,02  223,05 22,0   22,031
__.t ('OOD lb                     4,876 74,144 46.340 
p1                             213,193 26,69  35,A4  37,997 38,5n 318,3S9  38,391 38,391 38,391 38,191 38,591 38,59  38,91 38,1   38,591 38,391 3839t 38,59  38.59
an&                             1.544  2,330  2,05  2,939  2,969  2,969  2,969  2,969  2,969  2.909  2,96   2,99  2,969  2,969  2,9f   2,96   2,96   2,96   2,9"
Za-                             5,596  7,941  8,876  8.90   8,906  8,906  8,906  8,9   8,906  8,8 8,906  8,906  8,90   8,906  8,906  8,906  8,   8,    8,906
ZlOutalcw                       2,354  3,259  3,2t  3,6Z   3,    3,G2   3,63  3,e2t  3,633  3,62   3,f2t  3,G2   3,633  3.,6    3,t         MU   3,021  3,M   362,1
Od,W                            2,238  3,099  3,443  3,443  3,443  3,4   3,443  3,443  3,43  3,443  3,443  3,443   ,443  3,443  3,43  3,443  3,43  3,443  3,43
7a1_ It bkid  Cqiz8J            8,853  5,440  1,348      0      0      0                                                                                      (1564)
91aeaL                          34,477 48770  5,5s8 56,906 5,39 57,WAN  57,524 37,329 57,M5  57,9  57,599 57,529  57,329 57,399 57,529  57,52  5        57,39  41,89
I=X>LIS am,3S3 133.914  Ot,898  6,906 57,399 57,29 57,    57,39 57,329  S7,39  57,99 57.,52  57,539  57,52  57,35  57,3529 573   57,329 41,898
T" C(5m of SoO)                       0      0      0      0      0  4*,361  4.3       1  4,361  4,361  4,361  4,3614,61  4,36   4,31  4,361  4,3t  4,1St  4,36   4,361
iw -
G= ab                            34.836 6t,39t  0,50#6 85,3 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,21   7,215 87,2t5 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215 87,215
M* ca1 fta                       99,353 122,914 101,898 56,906 57,52  6t,890,   6t,890 6a,00  61.00 61,890 6t,890 6a,890 61,890 6,890 61     6t,890 61,8  46,29
bt   _                          (64,467)(61,33)(21,32) 9,97 29,65 25,3#5 25,3   25,325 25,35 25,3  25,325 25,35 25,325 25,325 23,5 25,52  25,35 23,3X   40,9S
191        13.5X      lbt P,    V&Uu at 121    12,914
aL                                 (T '000)
la W.d-n p-Jat mt S*  faa  I4-1imd  u_ammi to o%al mo.
lb Iabde  pm z   W  o           a     714 ,t20,50;-164  Sexy OinthSw - 11,550624& VIalas - Y7,336.4 15 adn Tmkf ad A  - 13,60- t 0



am Sims:        1.67 ha
Sal prCai    11,300 Ylt
a uu Mm 
Iw  StatmmA Cu       h Plow - J1m sbw SRwmp Pa  - 1.67 ba MM
Yaw 1      2      3       4      S      6      7      8       9     10    11      12     13     14      15     16     17     28     19      20
1.  XrES ¢
A. Cmcs VaLms of Pzu6mtlc
Ams.                          1.-67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67   1.67    1.67
TYidha (kg)                  1,200  1,650  1,950  1,950   1,950  1,ff 0   1,950  1,950  1,950  1,ff0  1      1,,50  1,50  1,950  1,950  1,950  1,950  1,950  1,ff0   1,
PM&aum (t)                     2.0    2.8    1.S    1.3    3.1    3.3    1.3    S.3    S.1    3S       1.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.1    3.1    3.3    3.3    3.3      3.3
own  la1  (VAW"             22,645  l,137 36,798 36,7# 36,78 36,798 36,9  36,79  36,798 36,7   36,70  36,79  36,798 36,798 36,798 36,8 36,798 36,798 36,7B  36,798
S.  PbO&Wtuw Csla
F1o                          8,955 13,759 16,233 16,283 16,23 16,203 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,281  16,283 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,283 16,=3  16,2l3
Bods                         1,002  1,127  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,25    1,253
taboc                        I.IV31,127     1,253  1,253  1,253  1,251  1,23  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,251  1,251  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253  1,253   1,253
Fod                          1,50 l0  2,505   2,505   2,505   2,505   2,552.5   2,5305  2,505  2,505  2,505  2,5 S 2,505  2,50   2,55  2,505  2,50   2,505  2,505   2,50S
Fm  ma t f.m                   5u     Su     Su     Su    s5       501    S      503    5       501    501   53tm    50     50o    501    501   s50      501  S31  50t
aat8ri                       1,503  1,M   1,50   1,503  1,503  1,503  1,503  1,503  1,503  1,503  1,503  1,5303  1,53   1,503  1,5s0  1,503  1,0   1,3   1,50    1,503
tItu                           8n    8n      snnSgn77    877    877    877  7  87  87   8       7      S77    877    8n    S"    87        877   s8      B7"    87      s7
Tag                 15,4S 21,524 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,113 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173 24,173  24,173
C.  Nejast IAM   S       b        5,914  5,914 1.0,19 10,159 1O,t59 10,159 10,159 1O,1.5  10,139 10,159 tO,t.59 1,13,t  10,159 t10,19                                                 1
D.  Jmat   as 1bidi          tac    619  sa       967     6     96     967 f67         67    g6     967    967    967    967      f     967    967    967 sa         9f7     967 f f
E. am  Id                            0      0       0      0      0  1,8*0  1,8*0  1,840  1,8*0  1,840  1,8*0  1,8*0  1,8*0  1,8    1,04 0  1,8*0 1,84 0  1,8 *0 l,U0 1
F.  Hat T                          647  2,837  1,49   1,499  1,499   (341)  (341)  (3*1)  (341)  (341)  (3*1)  (341)  (341)  (341) 9,sts 9,1   9,828  9,818  9,618   9,818
iI. QPM am swMmi
A.  CaPital U-
_nestmt "6,832/ha           78,209
Zamx      b acqptal          7,7333,029 1,325         0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      a      0      0       0      0      0       0
R3.mt ofG v1c1e                                                                               1,096                                                                   3,096
-ACW#M                                                                                                                                                                Maz
Tal                 85,9*2 3,0"   1,325       0      0       0      0      0      03,096        0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0 (8990)
S.  Ct;iillO                      7,180  9,611 12,s5 12,625 12,42  22,65 12,625 12,625 12,25 12,as  12,4s   ,           2,a5 t2,62S 12,S 2, a s 12,625  2,62S 12 ,625  t2,625
C.  Stm Cad FLw                 (78,762) 6,564 11,301 12,as 12,625 12,a5 12,62  12,62  12,6s  9,329 12,6S 12,62  12,6s 12,625 12,625 12,625 12,65 12,as 12,as  21,a6
13.462
WV           6,8e3
la  A full dawLopwmt with follouing imp*  pbt ba:
red   Sad.  LaIt  Pat.  ram, mL.t. m3c.  Total
Q0mt                 9,750      30    15O    300    300  3,600    52s                                                                                                        I!s
unit                    I   10,000   udr    u      | am    k cr   SWD
unit Pzir                1      25      5      5      1   0.25      1
Total o5t            9,750     750    750  1,50     300    900    525 14,475
lb  Roa  sc Imn a csat of Y46,832/Ia with trm of 8X iatagt wa   5 1 ar* with 3  a
la  Interat at S p... fL  6 a
Id  Aftar 5 ya       period, tins t52 of ctE  itms



Farm *lset        1.67 ha                                                                             CHINA
Sale prLc.:    11,300 t/t
COASTAL LAWS DRVSLOPUfNT PROJECT
Income Statement and Cash Flow - Jisngsu Iwnroved Shr1,p larm - 1.67 ha holding
Without
year        Project         1       2       3       4       5        6       7       S       9      10      11      12      13 14-20
-__----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S. INOCOM STAYDIENT
A. Gross Value of Production
Area                              1.67     1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67
Yieldlha (kg)                      900    1,200   1,650   1,950   1,950   1,950   1,950   1,950   1,950   1,950   1,950   19510 1,950   1,5fO   1,950
Productlon (tons)                  1.5      2.0     2.8     3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3     3.3     3.3     3.3     3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3     3.3
Gtoss value (Yuan)              16,984   22,645  31,137  36,796  36,798  36,798  36,798 36,798  36,798  36,798  36,798  36,798  36,79#  36,796  36,798
S. Production Costs la
r.ed                             6,676   8,955  13,759  16,2*3  16,283  16,263  16,263  16,283  16,283  16,283  16,283  16,283  1C,2S3  16,283  16,2S3
Seeds                              626    1,002   1,127   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253
Labor                              877    1,127   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253   1,253  1,253
Pend mlantenane                  2,000    1,500   2,505   2,505   2,505   2,505   2,050   2,303  2,505   2,505   2,505 22,05   2,305   2,505   2,505
Fan maengeemnt fees                376      501     501     501     501      501     501     501     501     501     501     501     501      501     501
Electricity                      1,127    1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503   1,$03   1,503   1,503.  1,503   1,503   1,503   1,503
Miscellaneous                      677      877     877     877      677     877     877     677     877     877     877     877     877      677     877
Total                  12,559   15,465  21,524  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173  24,173
C.  Project Loan Uepseymnt lb             0   2,218   2,218   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601   3,601                       1
D.   Iatere.t on Working Capital tc    502       619    861      967      967     967     967     967     967     967     367     967        7     97      967            .-
E.   Tarx. id                           849        0       0       0        0       0   1,840   1,840   1,640   1,640   1,840   1,840   1,640   1,840   1,840             1
P.  Net Imcoem                        3,074    4,344   6,534   8,058   6,058   8,058   6,218   6,216   6,218   6,216   6,218   6,216   6.218   6,218   9,818
II. CASH FLOW STATESET
A.  Capital Costs
Investment 016,599ba                 0  27,720
lncremntal working capital           0    1,453   3,029   1,325       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0
Replacement of vehicles                                                                                            3,096
Recovery
Total                       0  29,174   3,029  1,325         0       0        0       0       0       0   3,096       0       0       0        0
S.   Cash Infly                       39,576    7,180   9,613  12,625  12,625  12,625  10,765  10.785  10,785  10,785  10,785  10,785  10,785  10,785  10,785
C.   net Cash Flow                    3,576  (21,99 ) 6,584  11,301  12,625  12,625  10,785  10,785  10,785  10,785   7,689  10,765  10,765  10,785  10,783
Incremental  Ince                       (25,570)  3,007   7,725   9,049   9,049   7,209   7,209   7,209   7,209   4,123   7,209   7,209   7,209   7,209
FRR            26.102
NV            46,415
1-  At full development with follovLng inputs per has                                                                                                                 0
Fed    Seeds  Labor Maint.  Hgmt, Elect. Misc.  Total
Quntity                          9,750       30    150      300     300   3,600      525                                                                         nI.
Unit                                kg   10,000   Ada    uday       am    kwhr    am
Unit Price                           1       25       5       5       1    0.25        1
Total cost                       9.750      750    750   1,500      300     900     525  14,475
lb   Based on  mestment cost of Y16,599Iha with tems of 8X interest over 15 years with 3 years grace.
Ic  Int-re.t at S% p.&. for 6 months
Id   After 5 year grace period, taxes at St of gross lncome



Fm  almt        14.0 hA
hq5z priat       700 Ylt (at)
SwijJzifts 20,U10 TIt (ad)                                                 LAIZL_  -_ 3
sm tateo  adA Ca Flow - J1VSi 1wm  Pm with procesaix - 14 la
YewrI        I       S      4       5      6       7      8       9     10      11     12     13      14     is      16     17     18      19      20
I.  =me  VL2
A. Gmaa Valumc of?mit&att
-mea                        14.00   14.00   14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00  14.00   24.80
Tieldi/R (kg)                10.300  12,70  13,.0   ,000  1.5,00 15,ooo1.0 00 iso00        1.0D 1S,ODD 1O   L5,000 13.0 13,000  13,00 13.00010    MM,000 1,3 ,000 1 5, 15,000  13000
P yutIa (t)                   147.0   178.5   210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0   210.0
reut  -at, (T)              1,900 124,950 147,000 147,000 147,000 147,00 17,O0 147,000 147,000 147,000 147,000 147,000 147.00  147,00  147,000 147,000 147,00 147.000 17,00  147,00
QmPa dask  ( ) (f20,400ft 299,810 364.140 40040 40,40 40040 40040 4,40 40,400 4#0,400 0,0 428,400 4,400 4                       420,400 400,400 420,400 40,40 420,40 042.00 400,400
B.  PM&Iou  G#ts la
FIub 1                      102.9110 124,950 147,000 147,000 147.OOD 147,000 147,000 147,000 147,000 147.000 147,000 147,000 147,000 147,000 147.000 147,0W 147.00 147,000 1,47000 147,000
Pt *&Ltlas                  1,349 147,332 173,355 17,3s5 173,355 173,355 173,355 173,355 173,355 173,355 173,355 173.   173,355 Mss 173.355 173 17,55 M,SS m35 173,ss 13,5
TOa                 224,29 272,302 320,355 320,3 20, 32    320,355 320,XU5320,355 320 35D 320,5 320,3552  ,      ,355 320,30 3320,355 320,353 M,A   320,35 320D355 320,355
C.  Pcft Loammy           lb       4,800  44,8    69,4   69,423  69,43 69,423 69,423  69,42  69,423 69,423 69,423 69,423 69,42  69,423
D- lt t - Uodh. CaP Ic  8,970  10,892  12,814 12,814 12,8t4 12,814 12,914 12,8t4 12,814 12,814 12,814 12,814 12,814 12,894 12,814 12,92   2,814 12,94 12,8A4  12.8t4 >
S.  TOM  Id                       14,994  18,207  21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,40 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420 21,420   t,4
P.  Not 7m                         6,866  17,93    4,38B  4,388  4,368  4,38   4,388  4,388  4,383  4,388  4,388  4,38B  4,38B  4,38B 73,811 73,811  73,811 73,811 73,811 (207,568
xi. CAN Am s814W
A.  Captal Casta
Inmatmat                    360,00
T-a1 f OWM*    Cital    60,674  13,002  13,002            0                                                                                                                 (8M678)
Total               620,674  13,002 13,002        0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0 (86,678)
D.  Ca  lfw                       60,638  73,431  8,623 86,6250 86,82    .625 86,5 8642  86,4    6,6   86625 86,6  E6,625 86,625 86,625 86,a  86,65 86,625 86,3  86,C25
C. Ibt   h 71w                  (560,037) 60,630  73,623  6.65 86,62  8,625 86,65 86,625 86,625 86,625 86,625 86,62  86,62  8,2  86,625 86,S23 85.   86,625 86,625 173,303
19RR          13.46X
48,672
oi  At fllU dw1p   uidL                    pe t finlm  pao&odt:
lwN        rl      m      wa Plead  _m.  Mae.  TOW
Qmmmi                    10 3O,0D0   2,500              5D0  1,5S2  2,068
Odt                       t tM   b                M   am   am   aM
AtXt paia               700       1    0.25        1      1      1       1
Tot  mt               7,000   3,000     du        0      0   1,562  2,068  8,255
lb B_M  as iZ            _at of V6,0 fot PMMi=   ple= (88 s       t       13 Om       2 a    S-)
to  Tnaat U p..    6- !
Id  T i        3   aa outpt a
IF.



yam Ss           0.2 bi                                                             cam
.1 p,t.s         700 Ylt
XSU   Wf  W_
I      - Seotom  A  aCub Plo - L -l Paomt1m  - 0.2 be Iddit.
m 1        2       5      4      5       6      7      8       9     10     11      22     23     14     is      16     17     28     19       20
I. Is N
A. Owins 1.1. of p~mat1ic
kw                             0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.2D   0.        0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.2    0.20   0.20    0.20
Y124/ba O,X                  10,500 1227   25,000 15,000 l5,OD   5,0o0 15,00  15,0        05,000      25,000 25,000 15,000  15,000  25,00025,0 00 25,000 25,000  5,000  25,00
PactIm  (t)                     2.1    2.6    3.0    Z.0    3.0    5.0    5.0    3.0    5.0    1.0    3.0    3.0    5.0    °.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    5.0    5.0          3.0
0o  Tau  (am)                 1,470  1,85  2,100  2,100  2,100  2,100  2,100  2,100  2,200  2.100  2,200  2,100  2,120  2,1    2,1t0  2,100  2,200  2,10D  2,20D   2,120
11. PM&     f Gnhl
built.                          85 f3   4       5     as    68    4a        45      63     85     Gs     05      43     as     45      Gs        a  is      85      45      63
rdw                             6!10   4S0    60    850    ao0        0    610    as    as    aS        ao    ao    as    as    as    as    as    as    as                 as
NEWSMN*                          so     r0     so     30      so     r0     so       0     50    rSo    r0       20     so      30     r0     so     so      J0     30      20
0Aa                                     so0    40     GO      40     0       a0     f0     40     sO      GO     f0     6D     dO      40     d0     40      0      a0      f
TOOL                   785    7s    785    m         m785    785    785    78     m      m      7        3     78     785    7       1             7       785     7
C.  bu3s hLa=            /b       1,249  1,19  1,149  1,149  1,19  1,214   1,1,1  1,149  1,14   1,29  1,14   1,19  1,149  LU9  1,149  1.149  1,4   1,4   1,4    119
D.  7m85t       ksoSitIL              1      tc    31      31     31      31     31     31      31     31     31     31      51     2      21      5      2      2       31      31
L.    T   Id                          0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0
F.  mat  m                         (49)  (179)  13        i  136 136    15    1i6    1        1       in    1       1n      1n     in     1n    2n6         136 1n6 236         136
it. mNM S
A.   ftitA Qwt.
--lo  if                      2,307     0       0  2,207      0       0  2,207      0       0  2,207      0      0  2,27        0      0  2,7         0      0      0        0
Ia4                  5,840      0       0 2,207       a       01,207        0      0 2,207        0      0 2,7          0      0 2,7          0      0      0    (785)
B.  bo                               7 VIm  (3,155) 1,085  1,327   (0)1,  1,217  1,317  1,33,7  1,37  1,317  I,8) 1,317  1,217  1(307  127  1,317   (0  1,27  1,517   1,27  123V
u. Iem              tMIl5) 1,002  1,Xa} (tl9) 1,317  1,U7  CM* 1,31.2 1,317    CMG@ 1.3,7  1.317    (tlO) l,W1,7   *                              (OM) 1,1W   1,317  1,317   2, MS
IDII         21.151
la. .  tu  dm 1p   idt  SaIi.ult  tqat p_ la
-=N   lam    "Pe   ML$*   Pmtg
1   1,260      1      1
hit                     la    odor    au    S=
bz Prim                317       3    l15     200
low mat                317   5,150    LO    300  3,917
lb _a.4 C. IvDWm   amt CC Y1,0a0/  Lw flu..    Y64,26/la fat MMQ  Cr 1gmut               3 Y a)
Ic  rmt at at p.a. fo 6       -
Id  lb ta ld,. ai pwdatIm
to   1OW s    Y14246 sucfflam  Lw 1 2a qwalcat
Itf  OAtWM  fg 4 11,0355la



yam slu Sit      3.000 ag aml IA
1.4 ha ql.
8.3* pdaa       28,333 V/t                               SUL  ta1                                  U IE     
aiw   tt         d C Fw - J_UM  3.1 Yam (3000 OR amlai md 1.4 bt qm)
Yam          1        2        3        4        3        6        7        a         9       10       11       12       13       14       is       16       17       is       19         20
I.    Dg S       mAl
A. ein Value of Pxatlm
-          d  a           3.000    S,OO               3,000    30 Ow         3,000    3,000   3,0t00 3000                      3,000    3,000    3.0CO    3,000        3,000    3     ,000    3 .0D O 3,000  3.000
A    -        p1d .40                1.40     1.40      1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40      1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40     1.40      1.40
view"  (hs)                 10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0     10.0     10.0    t0.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0    10.0       10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0
yield/h (kg               13,000   35.000   13,000   15,0;0   15,000    3,0      13,000   135,000   15,000   13,000   13,000   15,000   13,OD0   13,000   15.000   13,000   13,000   13,0o0  13,000    13,000
<bnun(o)               310      51.0     31.0  t .0        51.0   D.   O  1.0    31.0           31.0    51.0    31.0       U.0    51.0       31.0     31.0     51.0      $1.0     31.0  D>.0         51.0 .
ON" wIN   ('000 Ia)  1,44.10  1,444,103 1,44,W3  1,444,916  1,444,9J3 1.444,9  1,44,903 1.44A.103 1.4644.03 1,444,183 1,444,10  1,444631 A44.03% 1,,44.W$ 1.,944     1,4644,   14,444103   1,44.4     1,644.93
B.  Pr&mtiA Cuts /b
raupad a                 306,000  306.0   306,000  306,000  306,0D0  306,000    00      0 ,0    306        306,000  B06,000  306,000  30,000  3W6000  306,000  3           56,000   306,000  300 30    3016,000
fted                     547,536  347.5%   547,336  547,3%        5     4.M   547.536  547,53 567.5    5 7,36  5147.5    5 7,56  541,5%   57%   547,56 50 7,336   345.536    w,s36   30.3ft    su,3
O2500   10,50   23.500   25.50    23             00 23m 2s.   m     20    ,300o 3,50    2s3,00   2s,00           0   23,300   23,5      2SM      2,500   2S.50   25,M30    23.500
xLe3tW                     6SB65    SAN0   35,650   5665    58,650   5650  53,650   30,650   50,650   50,650   30,65    58,658   56.0   3065    58,60   56.650   30.0   58,63    5865                   58650
Cl                        n7,60    71,604   71.       n,60w     ,64   71,0    7n,0    7,604   n.10    n,64    n,0   n,6o    7.60                 7 n.604  n7,604  n7       nf,o      n164   n,604       n.K
) _1 U,300   1,313,                          13,300   115,3013,300   15,300   13,300   13,300   1330    3,3,3003,300   13U300   15,300   15,300   13,3D    133S,   13,3%    U,3O    13,300    13.300
N)*alIaamw                53350   33,530   s33,5s0   3,50    33,500   33,558   33.350   33,580   33,330  53,550   53,350   33,50   5S,50   56.550   33#o 33%                  550 5 33,3%    33,550    3,550
Total         1,07B,14 1,078.140 1,16140 1,016,140 10107,140 1,078,140 1,016,140 1,07,4 1,071,140 1,07B10 104,140 1,01.10 1,076,140 1,071,140 1,01,140 1,0.140 1,16,140 1,078.140 1.018,140 1,07B.140
C.  PbkintU=aMPO          a  119,56   119.563   119,566  194,140  194,140  194,140  194,140  194,140  194,10   194.140  194.14   194,140  196.140  234,140  194,140
D.  Int       m U,I4 lpa    43126   43,126 U     43,26   43.1*    45,126   43,126   43,126   43,12S   43.126 U43.2    4,126   43.22    4S226   43.126   43,126   43.126   4,126          l43,26   43,766    43,126C
X.  0Mm id                         0        0        0   72.269   72,249   72,249   72,249   72,29   72.29   72,249   7,29    72,249   72,249   72,249   72,249   72,249   72.269   72,249    2,24          72,249
P1   a t                     204,149  204.149  204.149   37328   57,32B   57,320   57.32B   37,326   57,32B   37,32%   37,326 57,32B   37.3          37.320   37.3  231,246  251,; 1B  2U,46   2B.46  251,46
A.  Okg-a Srm
-                      1 4960co
~AwL  rAI 2            6 1,07;140       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0°  o,.1m 0)
TOW           2,372,740        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0 (1.078,140)
3.      tofl.                36,s63  306,903  30943  29,394  294,39   204,394  294,3    294.394  29,594  294,594  264,594  294,394  294,594  294,395  294,594  296,5S   206,594  294,59   294,594   294,59
C.  Not   h P2w            (2,25.697) 368.K   366,843  294,594  294,594  294,594  294,594  294,594  24,594  294,594  294,59   294,394  294,394  294,39   294,594  294,59    2,590   294,3         065,94 1,372.734         j: 
3%  11.471                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,30,491 3,378.631
m        23.472
WV      183 7, 6D
'a  TotaL m    s 3,000 se amlomd ar 1.4 ha qpm puaw
lb  At *AU Ad lopant wLth  lAd1U  SxpxSg pt am p&m6d.
12211116           XBIr fd AAt fd n1140LL  T.  1n                    g3aot       i    now   °                       tba1
Ot-40                        1.5               234    2,340      156               100    5,000        12      30       250
adt                                    Is           kg       kg       kg  b                            t      am        a
4A4t P9I.                  4,000                 8      3.3      4.0    10.00        3     0.23      U7         1        1
TOt    t                   6,000        0    1,672    6,19D       6        50      500    1,150    1.0         3C0      250      SW    21.140
la  B_nSIm    _        most of TM.3%/Am a qpm pAs   Y 326%M rg .awod p     wuh t    of OX interest omr 13 3 - wIt& 3
la  I st   at tl p.*. far 6 M



- 117 -
ANNEX 8
Pate 1
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATING GUIDELINES FOR JIANGSU AND ZHEJIANG DEVELOPMENT CORPORATIONS
1.  ODerational Principles.  The Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provincial
Development Corporations (DCs) shall:
(a) conform in their organization, financial structure and operations
with the pertinent regulations of the State Council, including the
regulations dated August 14, 1985;
(b) maintain consistency in their lending operations with the policies
and regulations of the Government of China concerning terms for provision
of loans by firancial institutions to farms and rural enterprises;
(c) follow, in their operations, principles of financial management
designed to maintain a surplus of operating revenues over operating
expenses sufficient to safeguard the financial viability of the DCs; and
(d) observe the principles of investment decision making consistent
with the most efficient use of social resources.
2. Snecific Guidelines. The following guidelines are accepted as
practical expressions of the above operational principles, and should be
applied to all DC operations:
(a)  Canitalizat1nn.  DCs should maintain a minimum registered capital
as required by the State Council regulations dated August 14, 1985. As the
DCs increase the size of their debt, the amount of their capital shall be
increased so that the ratio of capital to debt is generally not less than
1:5. The capital increase may be derived from (1) retained earnings; (2)
equity investments, including investments in income-generating fixed assets
(measured at book value ex-depreciation), provided by government, other
economic entities, or individuals; or, for the purpose of this guidelines,
(3) loans received from government which do not carry fixed interest
obligations or fixed repayment periods, but are repayable on terms
determined by the actual future financial performance of the DCs and
subject to approval by the DC Boards of Directors. "Debt" refers to any
loan or credit bearing either fixed interest or fixed maturity other than
short-term credit for working capital purposes. Adequacy of capital in
relation to debt shall be reviewed by the respective Boards of Directors
annually, on the basis of financial performance of DCs during the preceding
year. In assessing the financial performance of DCs, the profitability of
projects financed by the DCs will be taken into account.



- 118 -
ANNE 8
Page 2
(b)  DispositLon of Net Earnings.  Distribution of DC net cash accruals
shall be determined by the Board of Directors only after adequate provision
is made for depreciation of assets, lending or foreign exchange risks, and
wozking capital. Net cash accruals under the Coastal Land Development
Project, due to differences in timing of repayment of loans by farmers,
households and enterprises to DCs, and DC repayments to government, may be
used by DCs, after the above provisions are made, primarily to finance
development similar to that undertaken under the project.
(c)   Investment Decisions.   The decision to finance or participate in
the financing of any economic tctivity other than those described in the
Staff Appraisal Report of the Coastal Lands Development Project shsll
depend on a prior assessment of its technical arA financial feasibility,
which will be conducted using techniques and criteria described in the
Project Appraisal Manuals of either the Agricultural Bank of China or China
Investment Bank. In the case of agroprocessing investments other than
those already appraised by the Bank Group and for which financing is to be
provided under the Coastal Lands Developmert Preject, the feasibility study
must be reviewed and approved by the Bank Group; approval criteria include
a satisfactory study of product market prospects and a minimum financial
aiid economic rate of return of 128.



if                    If~~~~~~[
t 1t, 11t} ,, 11 11 Itgl If  I i   P1 11             l1    
VW I
"~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~ 1.a (10 ld   <2 <"^"   X ""g  i   38  W§
X~ 1; l2.
l + [11 w~~~'
I    ..   i



-120-                                 ANNEX9
Table 1
-wm - NaW YmiortU  iidaft=
-19    19-                           9   19L   192
Dmatte =sI"        t
D=tio Prue          itt
lapat "si          t
aps:t jid.         Tit
ost of pmiatiaa    itt
nit .- ...  .
Food    _
Dou6aD             t
tA sbm             t
hxt of p   _At     Y
Nit                Y I
I-M
Nlt S    utwtad      b
CmiiIm               I
NAn  mm_omtd  ma
_af"
__ in                tAlb
lateL wm*mtlax 
~sda  asa
DiMtic primn       Tit
:=t Sei            t
mot of             Ylt
nstat uwAs         IY/
_              _~~~~



-121-                                    ANNEX9
Table 2
asuc aYEm 
?itoto              lkult   -1    _---   -im----  -iWO-w--9-- -1991-  -im--.
P       Acml _US   M           Moed Amal  PlemeS AmmL  FMed AML
Eeedls om2struots        a
Q=    pan oanatutwe     ha
AM6e8e mftil           Ill
NW  food =Uli In  emttAm a
Cd stom  Sn qpzstca 
Hat=1  in CoeatIm      iq 1
To&k Casters Sn oprstai no
Wm pand in pm&wtIm    bs
kae  YUld              t/l
Ttl podwtIm            t
NwSv  food PCo"ed      t
plimlal bmfis
War loava$
ana $a Prues        Yt
Cost of p   _mt5r   Ylt
not SaXM      Yl      t
A *t      u          t
Det3   sot"          t
Dmti                Ylt
z,out  -            Wt
Rqt Pru              Ylt
AmonwtIn tma         t
Cot of pinurim      Ylt
not r                I
lead sold            t
1111a 9gitW         Y/t
h=ua kInatbm         t
cost of pmdatum~   I
Net u    w _        Y
-m pride cartowd    ha
Moses. costibiL        I
5wlosed podn _Aiultd .,
Anne costlaa           I
Feed Lla in speston   to
mzrSUSle in opmettimi    to
4ffi vows in pr _otuft  Is
Aqp y-d               t%ls
To  Pm&WtImn           t
Cloed pods In pn&vtWn i,
_iox     peuoA         t
lda few "V&d           t
Flndal benfit8
yama lawi:
Dwas2i  Sal"s        t
Downtl price         lit
art asle             t
swat p¢ c            Y/t
aOst of pm&btim     Ylt
nbt wrni             Y
Weed MU:
Paid wld             t
la-aSh price        lt
t      EInto S       t
Cost of PYUM         I
Not v               y



- 122 -
Am= Jn
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents ,and Data in the Proiect File
A. Project Preparation Regorts and Related Documents
1.   Project preparation notes and component technical feasibility and
appraisal reports (in Chinese) prepared by the State Planning
Commission of Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces.
2.   Executive Project Summary dated April 27, 1987 and Project Brief
dated March 31, 1987
B. Renorts and Studies Related to the Project
1.  Aquaculture Development in Coastal Lands of Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provinces of China by Lo-Chai Chen (July 17, 1987).
2.  Appraisal Report on Engineering Component by J.E. Cowley (July
1987).
3. Evaluation of Coastal Lands Development Project (Agroprocessing
Components) by J. Clemmensen (August 1987).
4.  Aquaculture Development in Coastal Lands of Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provinces (Review of marketing channels and export market outlook)
by S. van Eyes (September 15, 1987).
5.   Mink Production by N. Glem-Hansen (August 1987).
6.   Technical Review of Goat, Duck, Mink Production by J. Doolette
(April, 1987).
7. Environmental Impact Assessment by D. Mossersmith (March 1987).
8.   Note on agricultural component by T.C. Tso (September 16, 1987).
C. Working PaZers
1.   Financial and Economic Rates of Returns by Production Activity



- 123 -
CHART 1
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Jiangsu Province
| Jiangsu |
Provincial
Goyanmn
Project
Coordinating
Committee
_Z3_tff!i
Provincial Project Office
;                              .                      I
I                              ,                      I
Lianyungang   j            f  Nantong        i        Yancheng        i
Proj. Coord.  1I             Proj. Coord.   _.        Proj. Coord. _
LCpmuiaaJI _                  Cum±,tt           _LComi ;m4I 
I     Projec                            oct             I           c
Office                                e   -gi             Ofc
|          L. Aquatic                   G General |               General
Breeding Corp.    j           Prods.                    Corp.
County Proj.      I           County ProJ.      I       ounty Proj.
Coord . C          I          LCommI                     Cr mm. I
Project    I                   Proct                       Jct  I
Office  l              ~~~Offie   |IOfc 
1tI                            It                        S
.-co ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~C
To.nhip                        Townhip                 Township
Dev. Co.                       Dev. Co.                Dev. Co.|



- 124 -                            CHART 2
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Zhejiang Province
Zhejiang
Provincial
Government I
Project
Coordinating
Committee
Provincial Project Office
I                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
Water                        Aquatic                       Ningb 
Resources                      Products                   Municipal
eau                         BureauL_ve
Project                      Projec                      Project
Offi                        Office                      Oice
I                           I                           I
Z. Tidal Land                      Aqua-                   Ningbo-
I Reclamation                    culture                      Damutu
Coastal Land
Dev. Corp.
I  I    I  I  I      (Damutu_
Sanmen County     Joint      Daishan County
Tidal Land      Ventures    Aquaculture
Reel. Corp.      for eel        Corp.
(Shean)       tl8 sites)      (Kaomen)
I     I
Yuhuan County
Tidal Land
Recl. Corp.
Ruian County
Tidal Land
Recl. Corp.
.(Dingshan)



- 125 -                            CHART 3
CHINA
COSTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Funds
------------- MOF -------------
I                             I
JIANGSU                       ZHEJIANG
PROVINCIAL                    PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT                    GOVERNMENT
,               ~~~~~~~~~I                      I
CITIES OF NANTONG,
LIANYUNGANG AND YANCHENG                 I
I                      NINGBO MUNICIPALITY
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COS.      Z. TIDAL LAND RECLAM. CORP.
Z. AQUACULTURE CORP.
l                             l
COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COS.         COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COS.
I                             I
TOWNSHIP AND) COUNTY FARMS         COUNTY DEV. CO. FARMS



IHPLSCHED                                                                                                             FIGURE 1
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVLOPt PROJECS
Implementation Schedule
Year             1988              1989              1990             1991              1992               1993
Ite            Qtr.        1   2   3   4     1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4         1   2   3    4
JIANGSU
Shrimp f&rM developmt nX  uX| mX  X         xx  XXX xx xx     XXX m Xm  MM Xm  mxx
Eel Laze development      mm mmX Xmm mmK  M   mm mm mmX  MM mm mmK XX  mm
LEver field deelopmnt  xx  xxx  mx xxI        x xxx xxx xx   xxx xx          mm  xxx
support Facilities
HLatcheries             mmp  x   xrx xxx xm m    xxmxmm   xxx m
Cold Store.s                     xu xrx  ux xmx xxx mmm
Feed tIlls                      mm xm  xmm   m mm mm
Animal Husbandry)
Duck                    mm xxx xxm  xm  XmX  mxxm     
Coat                    xm     xmm  xm m   mmx x xxx m   mm
Frabbt                  x|x x xrx xsx x3   xtx Dx^ u x3  xxx xxxllll lllllr
Aroprocessing                           xxx  xxx mxx .m   xxx xxx mm mm   m  mm mm 
Agriculture                            MmX
Fruit                   mmx mmx mmx mmt  mmK mmx mX m
nuts                    MM mmX mmX mmX  mmx mm mm mm
AgroprocassLng                            mmX mmX XXm MM  MM mmX mm mm
Equipment procuremnt                  m xxx  xxx xxx mm 
ZIEJIANG
Sea dike eonstruction        |- Xm XXm      mm mX  MM mm  xm    m  mXX XX
Shrimp farm development  xX mXX  Xm  MM  xm  xxm   xxx x        x     m   mXM    mm mm mxxm x         xxx x xxXXX
Eel farm development      xxx mm   xxx          x   xxx xxx    xxx xxx xxx              mm
Support Facllities
Sate.beries             xxx|mm   xxx m xx  xxx xxx xxx mm  xxx
Colo Stores                     mmx mmx  mmX mm mm mm
Peed mills                      mm xxx  mm mm mm m
Agroprocs,sing          mm mm mmX mmX  mm mm mm mm  mmK
Est. Effective Date-----------                                              Completion Date-----------------
Closing dat- --------------I
Is



IS                     1 S                    119                -   1W i                    ll
SHANDONG                                 2
3
I                          -3<oo  9'   pt                                COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JIANGSU PROVINCE
#>S_. lss '1 / 1 ZHENAN                                                                                                                0    Be, t'-'
A    Lwr Productfon
0  FNull Nodudlal3.
*   imat Hubondvy
Nadt eeds
SecondaryRhodj;
-    anIs
-   Pr. ndcuelewole;
33.
YELLOW
3   1 32            ~~SLEA
CHINA                    jA                                                                                                   j
P~~~~~~~~~~~-~~-                                                                                         -
fA--a--
OCTOUR 1987



IIIRD 20261
Ir.                     118'                      1;tqJIANGSU't                                                                                                      D 22
TAI HU
C H I N A                                                                                              S AI SHV
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                  
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
0     Sh'IMP PmidS                                                                                                   NZO
0      0eiPonds
N otfio.na fw0ds
xecary Road.Os/ O                                                                                    -        .KA OMJEN
Ra'lr''ds
1'  Afrporfts                                                                  O-YN 
- Pr.fmW~r B9.-darlas
~~~kAMU1U           EAST CHINA
MONGOUA                         W.__________                                                                                                                               7______
FUJIAN
I 19'                     I29'                       1 .                        122' 
ocrom 9



