Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14549
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2924/CREDIT 1887-CHA)
MAY 19, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit: Yuan
$1.00 = Yuan 3.72 (1987-89)
$1.00 = Yuan 4.72 (1990)
$1.00 = Yuan 5.25 (1991)
$1.00 = Yuan 5.42 (1992)
$1.00 = Yuan 5.8 (1993)
$1.00 = Yuan 8.7 (1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC  - Agricultural Bank of China
ADP  - Agricultural Development Project
BAP  - Bureau of Aquatic Products
BOF  - Bureau of Finance
DC    - Development Corporation
JAAS - Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences
FTC   - Foreign Trade Corporation
MOA  - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
PMO  - Project Management Office (Provincial level)
SPC   - State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface                        ......................................
Evaluation Summary   ..................................                                                ii
Part I.   Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Project Objectives  ...........................                                         1
B.  Achievement of Objectives ......................                                        3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project  ................                                  11
D.  Project Sustainability   .........................                                     14
E.   Bank Performance  ...........................                                         17
F.   Borrower Performance   ........................                                       17
G.  Assessment of Outcome ........................                                         18
H.  Future Operation  ............................                                         19
I.   Key Lessons Learned  .........................                                       20
Part II.  Statistical Tables
1.   Summary of Assessments .......................                                       22
2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits  .....................                                    24
3.   Project Timetable   ...........................                                      24
4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                           25
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ....                   ........          26
6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation  .....                  ...........             28
7.   Studies Included in Project ........                  ..............                 29
8A. Project Costs  ..............................                                         30
8B. Project Financing . ...........................                                       31
9.   Economic Costs and Benefits   ..........  ..  .                    ..  ..  .  .    .  32
10. Status of Legal Covenants  ............  ..  ...  ..  ..                           .  34
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..... .                        .     .  35
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ..........  ..  .                    ..  ..  .  .    .  35
13. Bank Resources: Missions  ............  ..  ...  ..  ..                            .  36
Appendices: A. Mission's Aide-Memoire  ........  ..  .                        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..     .  38
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR  .......  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  45
Maps
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN/CREDIT NO. 2924/1887-CHA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Coastal Lands
Development Project in China, for which a loan in the amount of $40 million and a credit
in the amount of SDR 44 million were approved on March 29, 1988 and made effective
on December 9, 1988.
Part A (Jiangsu) of the loan/credit was closed on June 30, 1993 and Part B
(Zhejiang) on June 30, 1994. Final disbursements took place on April 23, 1993 and
May 23, 1994, respectively, at which times balances of $4.153 million and $3.238 million
were canceled. Total disbursements amounted to $90.04 million.
The ICR was prepared by a team comprising N.K. Hill (Task Manager),
J. Voegele (Agriculture Economist), R. Zweig (Aquaculturist) and consultants for the
China/Mongolia Agriculture Operations Division of the East Asia and Pacific Region and
reviewed by Messrs. Joseph Goldberg (EA2AG Division Chief) and Yo Kimura (EA2
Project Advisor). The borrower provided comments that are included as an Appendix to
the ICR (attached).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission,
October 23-November 7, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation,
and commenting on the draft ICR.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2924/Credit 1887-CHA)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.          The primary objective of the project was to assist the Jiangsu and Zhejiang
provincial governments to develop coastal lands for culture fisheries. The project was one
of the first provincial agricultural development projects that placed responsibility for
project design, implementation and debt service with the provincial governments. The
major objectives of the provincial governments related to increasing production and rural
incomes over as wide a geographic basis as possible, and the scope of the project included,
in addition to aquatic production, components to extend benefits farther inland and
involving additional farm families (para. 1). Physical objectives were established to
include, in Jiangsu, construction or improvement of production facilities for shrimp, eel
and laver on about 8,655 ha; establishment or improvement of some 19,700 ha of orchards
and related agroprocessing facilities; development of small livestock raising and related
agroprocessing; an agriculture technology component that included eight innovative
production and processing subprojects; and in Zhejiang, shrimp and eel production over
an area of 1,650 ha (para. 7).
2.          The project also incorporated an institution building objective-promotion
of Development Corporations (DCs) for handling both implementation and onlending
activities, an initiative that was never executed. There were implicit objectives of breaking
the tradition of government grants for development by requiring repayment from
beneficiaries and imposing interest rates equal to the Agricultural Bank of China rates.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.          The project assisted the two provincial governments develop coastal lands
for culture fisheries and, in terms of physical construction, most of the objectives were
achieved. Implementation of the mariculture component proceeded relatively smoothly,
and the component yielded high returns in its early years. However, in both 1993 and
1994, shrimp disease, likely caused by a virus, impacted the project (and most of the
Chinese coast) by substantially reducing yields (paras. 29-30). The outbreak affected the
livelihood of thousands of shrimp farmers and brought the entire vertically-integrated
industry including feedmills, cold stores, processing and marketing facilities to a standstill.
Despite national and international efforts to analyze this violent disease outbreak, there are
no conclusive results. Possible contributing factors include virtually every aspect of
shrimp production, i.e., overly high stocking densities, generally deteriorating water
quality, changes in pH, salinity, dissolved oxygen, inappropriate feed and feed



- iii -
management, infected broodstock, etc. Although it is believed that the disease is viral, it
is unclear how it is transmitted and what role environmental factors play in the epidemic.
It is generally recognized that long-term sustainability has been sacrificed worldwide for
short-term profitability in shrimp production (para. 36). A major effort will be required
to rehabilitate the Chinese shrimp industry and to replace the current unsustainable
practices.
4.           Eel production has fluctuated throughout project implementation largely due
to market forces (para. 31). Eel prices have not increased commensurate with the cost of
eel fry, severely curtailing financial viability in the two provinces, and only the most
efficient companies appear to operate at a profit. The weak financial performance of
market eel production led to a shift to elver (juvenile) production in the latter years of
project development. Despite improved profitability at first, however, the profit margin
has been narrowing again due to the rapidly escalating cost of wild, capture seed (glass)
eels. Continuation of this trend may further threaten the financial viability of eel and elver
farming in the project area.  The Bank should be extremely cautious in financing
operations that rely on wild catches for the supply of young, for too little is known about
the sustainability of this system to assess the long-term economic and ecological viability.
5.           Laver production (para. 16) turned out to be the most profitable component
among the aquaculture investments, but even this component has started to see disease
problems, linked to density of production. In light of these recent problems, the Jiangsu
provincial government should quickly formulate measures to control the density of laver
farming and concurrently to determine specific causal factors affecting the health and
growth of the laver.
6.           The  project supported  livestock  production  (para.  18) to  utilize
underemployed family labor, crop residues, and naturally occurring grasses.
Implementation and production objectives were substantially met or exceeded for all
subprojects except mink, which was abandoned after collapse of the international fur
market in 1990. The project also provided for establishment or expansion of related
livestock agroindustries, which only partially met the physical and financial objectives.
7.           The project helped to provide funds and inputs for developing fruit orchards,
nut groves and grape vineyards in the near-coastal regions, and implementation and
production objectives were substantially met or exceeded (para. 22). Production of the
project output is commercially and technically sustainable.
8.           Designed  to test innovative technology, the agriculture technology
component was not vigorously pursued and only partially achieved its objectives; one
subproject achieved most of its objectives, and another of the subprojects achieved good
commercial viability, but only after changing its production output. The remaining six
were either dropped or commercially unsuccessful (para. 25).
9.           The total project cost was Y 801.68 million ($183.52 million) compared to
the appraisal estimate of Y 887.67 million ($217.00 million)-indicating cost underruns of



- iv -
10 percent in Yuan terms or 15 percent in Dollar terms. There were no significant
implementation delays (paras. 27-28).
10.         The project was designed in the context of a planned economy, and adoption
of market economy practices and liberalization of production have provided both benefits
and difficulties for implementation and operation. Government entities participating in the
project have generally followed the widespread practice of separating their commercial
operations from their regulatory functions and operating the enterprises in the form of joint
stock or other limited-liability entities. In practice, this distinction often does not affect
either how decisions are taken or who is responsible for them. Economic reforms have
shifted the role of government entities from direct procurement to market facilitation.
Also, producers may now choose whether to sell their output domestically or to the
Foreign Trade Corporation; more aquatic products are going directly into the domestic
market, with most of these transactions handled by local middlemen in small volumes.
11.         Bank performance was generally satisfactory (paras. 45-46). Supervision
missions were undertaken about once a year, alternately to each province. Borrower
performance was generally satisfactory, with one exception-compliance with covenants
in Jiangsu. The practice, in provincial agriculture development projects, of "allocating"
all the Bank/IDA funds anticipated under the project to lower-level administrative units
created problems in Jiangsu throughout the implementation period, generated substantial
opposition to ICB procurement, and led all levels of government to adopt a sense of
exclusive ownership over the funds.
12.         The project's likely outcome cannot be reliably assessed in the light of the
uncertainties facing the two major project components, shrimp and eel production, which
account for two thirds of the total project cost and which are generating marginal or
negative financial and economic benefits at present (para. 50). The shrimp component was
based on production practices that, while generating high profit levels in the early years,
have proved to be unsustainable over the long term, and recovery of the industry will most
likely be based on a major rehabilitation effort. The eel component, also dependent on a
limited natural resource (fry caught in the wild), faces economic and ecological
uncertainties, and the long-term sustainability is now questionable. The outcome of the
laver component has been and will likely continue to be highly satisfactory, provided
production density is reduced, either voluntarily by the producers or by government
restriction.  The outcome of the Animal Husbandry and Agriculture components'
production activities has been satisfactory and will likely continue, while that of the
agroprocessing subprojects has been mixed, with successes generally related to high
degrees of management autonomy and responsiveness to market conditions.
Sulmmary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.         Since project initiation, there has been a series of shrimp epidemic
catastrophes in all major producing countries worldwide, which has changed the global
outlook on investment in shrimp culture in general. The disease incidence in 1993 and
1994 makes it clear that China's shrimp industry will have to go through a major



readjustment (para. 51).  Concurrent efforts will likely be required to salvage the
industry-determination of the etiology of the shrimp disease and development of measures
for disease control, and continuation of the shift to lower production intensity and
polyculture with other species. Due to the uncertainty of the viability of eel farming in the
project area, government support should be directed at improving the efficiency of existing
facilities rather than further expansion.
14.         Other lessons (para. 58) in the agroprocessing sector emphasize the
importance of greater attention to commercial aspects of feasibility studies, direct contact
between management and markets, and management responsibilities and internal
organization conducive to motivation of both managers and workers.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2924/Credit 1887-CHA)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.          The primary objective of the project was to assist the Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provincial governments to develop coastal lowlands, mudflats and shoals for culture
fisheries. The State Planning Commission (SPC) had selected these provincial project
proposals for Bank consideration over an earlier Ministry of Agriculture proposal to carry
out a mariculture development project in a number of coastal provinces, to be implemented
along the lines of its Freshwater Fisheries project (Cr. 1689-CHA). This decision reflected
government's aim to decentralize its development activities. Selection of the two provinces
also reflected China's strategy in the mid-1980s to let coastal provinces "get rich quick"
or as stated by Premier Zhao Ziyang in 1988, "... the coastal areas have more advantages,
and if we do not take the chance to speed up economic development in the coastal areas,
it will be a great pity and also a big loss." Among the advantages, in the agricultural
sector, were that Jiangsu and Zhejiang were ideally situated to develop their coastal lands
for intensive fish culture: they had a combined shoreline of more than 3,000 km and
natural resources of eel fry and brood shrimp; water quality was good; and considerable
local experience had been gained in fishery technology, particularly in shrimp production
techniques, and in coastal land development schemes, which had focused on expansion of
culture fisheries for both marine and freshwater aquatic products.
2.          China was, at the time, engaged in a major expansion effort in shrimp
production that had begun in the early 1980s, after the successful mastery of hatchery
technology for the Chinese shrimp (Penaeus Chinensis). All coastal provinces began to
develop tidal areas for shrimp production; this was done with the encouragement, but
largely without the involvement, of the central government-as far as could be determined,
no national goals were set for area or production. Coastal counties and townships,
sometimes with financial assistance from provincial governments, effectively turned the
coastline of China into the largest area of shrimp cultivation in the world, peaking at an
estimated 162,960 ha in 1988, and eventually placing China in the position of number one
producer (215,400 t in 1992)1/ with export earnings of $500 million, mainly to Japan
and the United States.
3.          The project was one of the first in a series of provincial agricultural
development projects (ADPs), which were intended, as part of the government's
1/    Production data and area from Institute of Hydrobiology, Wuhan to R. Zweig (ASTEN) in 1994.



- 2 -
decentralization efforts, to place major responsibility for project design, implementation
and debt service with the provincial governments. Usually initiated under the auspices of
the provincial planning commission, there was a tendency to spread the benefits over as
wide a geographic area as possible and to incorporate as many different types of activities
as could reasonably be linked to the major project theme. The major objectives of the
provincial governments were clearly related to increasing production and rural incomes.
While Zhejiang limited their coastal development efforts under the project to shrimp and
eel production, Jiangsu expanded the scope of their part of the project to include, in
addition to shrimp, eel and laver, components for animal husbandry and agriculture, each
with its related processing capability, to provide employment opportunities for farm
families and to increase rural incomes. These additional components, though, added to the
complexity of the project and expanded project administration and implementation
responsibilities to include not only the Bureaus of Aquatic Products (BAP), but additional
line agencies, namely the Jiangsu Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Bureaus and the
Science and Technology Commission.
4.          At the Bank's instigation, the project also incorporated an institution building
objective-promotion of Development Corporations (DCs) for handling both
implementation and onlending activities. Utilization of these entities was expected to
separate government's normal administrative and regulatory functions from developmental
and commercial activities and to bring the development corporations into the commercial
arena. This was clearly the Bank's objectivi, shared by neither the provincial governments
nor the central government, as the concept of a "socialist market economy" with separation
of ownership and management had yet to be introduced when the project was appraised in
1986. Concern with financial control, mainly with the DCs' ability to effect repayment,
led to a Ministry of Finance directive to provincial governments, soon after project
effectiveness, to onlend Bank/IDA funds through the finance bureau hierarchy at the
different levels-province, city, county, and township.
5.          There was also the implicit objective of breaking the tradition of govemment
grants for development by requiring repayment from beneficiaries, with interest rates equal
to the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) rate for similar activities. While provincial
authorities wholeheartedly adopted the beneficiary repayment objective, they saw little
reason for having interest rates comparable to ABC's; in fact, they regarded the project
to be the province's development effort and, as such, saw no rationale for imposing higher
interest rates than MOF imposed on them.
6.          Though not explicitly stated, there was also a Bank Group objective of
reducing the isolation from the world market imposed by the Foreign Trade Corporations
(FTCs) on shrimp and eel producers by including in the legal documents provision for the
DCs to engage the FTCs as sales agents on their behalf. This measure was seen as a step
toward helping producers react to market opportunities and to establish contacts with
foreign buyers that would lead to "one of the most important, most effective and cheapest
sources of technology transfer and marketing know-how."



- 3 -
7.           In terms of physical objectives, the project had the following components.
In Jiangsu, it was to include construction or improvement of production facilities for
shrimp, eel and laver on about 8,655 ha; establishment or improvement of some 19,700
ha of orchards and related agroprocessing facilities; development of small livestock (goats,
rabbits, mink and duck) raising in about 90 villages and related agroprocessing; and an
agriculture technology component that included eight innovative production and processing
subprojects. In Zhejiang, the project concentrated on providing shrimp and eel production
over an area of 1,650 ha, a construction task of a smaller scope than in Jiangsu, but more
technically challenging because it required sea dike construction and closure before shrimp
ponds could be built.
8.          Production objectives were established in terms of yields for each of the
mariculture and horticultural subprojects and annual production for the animal husbandry
subprojects. Financial objectives were set in terms of expected financial rates of return
(FRRs) and economic rates of return (ERRs), calculated on the basis of price and output
projections.  No specific environmental objectives were set, other than that project
activities would conform to appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the
provincial governments and acceptable to the Bank Group.
B. ACHEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.           The project did assist the Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provincial governments
develop coastal lowlands, mudflats and shoals for culture fisheries and in terms of physical
construction, most of the objectives were achieved. Other components also achieved their
physical construction objectives. However, during implementation, some of the physical
resources that were seen as the provinces' natural advantages for aquaculture, i.e.,
abundance of eel fry and good water quality, proved to be unreliable and production fell
far short of the objective for shrimp and eel. Additional employment opportunities were
created and rural incomes increased during the implementation period.
10.         The main institutional innovation-development corporations (DCs)-was
abandoned; in fact, DCs were prohibited by the Ministry of Finance, and the legal
agreements were amended to reflect direct lending through finance bureaus and the
diminished role of the DCs. DCs, in many instances, became the end-users of the project
funds and contracted with farmers for operation of aquaculture facilities. Through the use
of contract fees, the DCs have passed on a large part of the financial risk of production
to shrimp farmers, though with the severe impact of shrimp disease by 1994, many DCs
had to reduce their contract fees. Interest rates for repayment were generally set at fixed
rates and are currently lower than ABC rates. Project facilities generally adhere to local
and environmental guidelines; a notable exception is the Dongtai Tannery. Enterprises
know their environmental risks and have installed appropriate infrastructure; however,
there is a tendency not to operate these facilities, especially if they require the purchase
of materials for regular operations. Greater attention has been paid to the environmental
concerns related to shrimp production (water quality, dissolved oxygen, etc.) as attention
focuses on the etiology of shrimp disease.



- 4 -
11.         Shrimp. In Jiangsu, shrimp culture development involved construction of
2,095 ha of new ponds, improvement of 4,634 ha of existing ponds, construction of shrimp
hatcheries covering 12,544 m2 and 12 cold stores for a total investment of Y 223.83
million.  This physical development represented 53 percent of new shrimp ponds,
108 percent of improved ponds, 12 out of 14 cold stores, 132 percent of the hatchery area,
and 70 percent of the total investment estimated during appraisal (see Table 5). Zhejiang
constructed and rehabilitated 1,729 ha of shrimp ponds, 4 feedmills, 4 cold stores and
established 3,000 m2 of hatchery area, with a total investment of Y 197.23 million, thus
exceeding the SAR estimate substantially (153 percent).  Physical implementation
proceeded relatively smoothly, shrimp farms were managed at a satisfactory level, and the
component yielded high returns in its early years. However, shrimp yields never fully
reached SAR estimates. In Jiangsu, annual shrimp production from project ponds
increased from 2,100 t (average 1.2 t/ha) in 1988 to 9,200 t (1.4 t/ha) in 1992, after which
significant early mortality (see paras. 29, 30, 36, 51-52 on shrimp disease) resulted in
substantially reduced yields of 0.5 t/ha in 1993. Preliminary data for 1994 are showing
a further decrease to about 0.1 t/ha. New ponds in Zhejiang reached a maximum output
of 1.2 t/ha in 1992, declining to 0.49 t/ha in 1993. In 1992 the rehabilitated ponds were
slightly ahead of the SAR target (0.9 t/ha) with an incremental yield of 0.92 t/ha, but
falling dramatically to a negative incremental yield in 1993. Overall, the SAR shrimp
production estimate of 1.95 t/halyr was considerably higher than the best yields achieved
during implementation.
12.         Financial and economic rates of return were recalculated for all subprojects
with a sufficient data base. Since a somewhat reliable prediction of future shrimp yields
is difficult at present, three scenarios were calculated for each subproject. The first
scenario assumes that shrimp yields will eventually recover, though to only about
50 percent of pre-epidemic levels; similar trends were experienced in other countries
affected by shrimp disease. In the second scenario, it is assumed that shrimp yields will
remain low and farmers mainly rely on polyculture of shrimp/clam/crab and shellfish. In
the third scenario, a break-even yield is calculated at which the FRR/ERR would become
greater than 12 percent. With shrimp yields recovering to 50 percent of previous levels
(0.6 tlha), FRRs and ERRs remain generally below 12 percent, unless farmers introduce
polyculture in their ponds. With polyculture of crabs and clams, recalculated rates of
return exceed 12 percent, although price projections for crabs and clams are based on the
current market situation, which is unlikely to be sustainable. In fact, it is very likely that
prices will fall drastically as soon as production is expanded to a larger area. In order to
achieve long-term financial viability therefore, shrimp yields would have to recover to at
least 1.0 t/ha. ERRs exceed 12 percent at current world market prices if shrimp yields are
assumed to exceed about 0.8 t/ha in the long run.
13.         Eel. In Jiangsu, eel culture included 13.6 ha of covered rearing tanks
(156 percent of the appraised estimate of 8.7 ha) while the proposed open culture tanks
were canceled (appraisal estimate was 32.7 ha), and one eel feed mill was established as
planned at appraisal for a total investment of Y 76.1 million or 118 percent of the appraisal
estimate. Investments in Zhejiang remained, at Y 34.44 million (44 percent), well below
the SAR estimate, largely due to high operating costs and marketing problems during the



- 5 -
late 1980s. Eel yields have fluctuated throughout project implementation, largely due to
market forces. In Jiangsu, yields peaked in 1991 at 851 t (73 t/ha) but dropped to 377 t
(28 t/ha) in 1993. This drop in production was supplemented in part by the rearing and
sale of elvers rising from 6.5 million in 1991 to 26.32 million in 1993, resulting in the
reported conversion of estimated financial losses of Y 2 million in 1991 to a profit of Y 32
million in 1993. Eel yields in Zhejiang were even lower, peaking at 19.5 t/ha for indoor
systems and 4.3 t/ha for outdoor systems. The SAR projections were 50 t/halyr for the
indoor ponds and 11.5 t/halyr for outdoor ponds.
14.         Apart from yield levels, the financial viability of eel farming is determined
mainly by the price of eel fry, which accounts for more than 50 percent of operational
costs at present, and the export price determined by Japanese market demand. While the
cost of eel fry has increased by a factor of 11 since 1988, eel prices have only tripled
during the same period. This has severely curtailed the viability of eel farming in the two
project provinces. Only the most efficient companies appear to operate at a profit margin.
Among the subprojects supported by the Bank, about half seem to be able to survive the
increasing competition in the long run. Recalculated rates of return, however, remain
below 12 percent because facilities are operating well below capacity, profit margins are
narrow and most companies have experienced several years of negative returns during the
early years of production.
15.         Laver. In Jiangsu, laver culture was expanded to an area of 1,107 ha or
more than 400 percent of the appraisal estimate of 273 ha. The procurement of 34 sets
of laver processing equipment imported from Japan exceeded the appraisal estimate by 15
sets, and construction of about 9,100 m2 of hatchery buildings amounted to 250 percent of
the appraisal estimate. The total investment cost for laver culture development was Y 75.5
million or 172 percent of the appraisal estimate. Total production generally increased
throughout project implementation from about 2,700 t in 1989 to 10,500 t in 1993,
although per unit area production declined from 14 tlha/yr to 10 t/halyr over the same time
period as compared to the SAR production target of 15 t/halyr. Although treated with
considerable skepticism during appraisal, laver production turned out to be the most
profitable component among the aquaculture investments (see also Box 1).
16.         Laver culture is highly profitable, to the extent that the Chinese company
owners refer to the laver processing machines as money printing machines. Market
demand has been steadily increasing, and with improving quality of the dried laver sheets
produced, prices have continued to go up. Recalculated rates of return are well above
20 percent in the financial analysis and even higher if economic prices are applied.
17.         The total cost for aquaculture development was Y 607.04 million or
89 percent of SAR estimate of Y 685.75 million (base cost plus physical and price
contingencies), with shrimp culture representing about 60 percent, and eel and laver culture
about 20 percent each of the actual investment as compared to the appraisal proportion of
80 percent for shrimp, 16 percent for eel, and 4 percent for laver. As is apparent from
the above, significant changes were made in the scale of the individual subcomponents
during project implementation. These adjustments were made largely due to changes in



Box 1: JIANGSU: SEAWEED PRODUCTION IN LANYuNGANG CiTY-
A SuccEss STORY
Seaweed-or laver-production was virtually unknown in this northernmost municipality in Jiangsu
province until the mid-1980s, when steadily increasing demand for laver sheets from Japan promised
a lucrative market. In Japan, dried and pressed into sheets, laver is used to prepare sushi, a rice dish
wrapped in seaweed. However, the technology required to produce the desired export quality was not
available in China and foreign exchange to import equipment was scarce. In 1987, when the Municipal
Bureau of Aquatic Products applied for a $1 million subloan under the project to establish a small laver
industry in the city's harbor, both Bank staff and the local officials had their reservations about the
feasibility and viability of such an undertaking. But eventually they concluded that the risks involved
were manageable and decided to import processing equipment and establish a production area of about
130 ha along the city's shore.
Today, laver production has expanded to nearly 2,500 ha involving 7,000 farm households and
supplying a processing industry with an annual turnover exceeding $20 million. The original company
has continuously expanded and remains the innovator in new technologies and marketing in the area.
It employs about 50 staff and produces not only high-quality laver sheets exported at a premium price,
but also produces and exports dehydrated vegetables and various other products. The company's
foreign exchange earnings exceed $3 million per year with about half the profit derived from laver
export. Many of the staff trained during the early years have left the company and have established
their own laver production and processing companies in the area. Today about 50 companies owning
some 73 processing lines are competing for raw material and markets.
Initially, the company produced the necessary equipment for laver production (nets, ropes, small boats,
etc.) and sold or leased it to the farmers. In return, farmers had to sell their fresh laver to the
company. After a few years of profitable operation, though, most farmers had repaid the initial
investment and became more independent. Other companies, villages and cooperatives started laver
production and processing and now the sector displays a diversified structure. Today, an independent
household cultures on average 0.4 ha of laver, contracted from the municipal government for an annual
fee of about $20. Typically, the initial investment of $1,800 can be recovered in the first season, and
similar net profits can be expected in the following 2 to 4 years.
Ironically, although almost all the laver is eventually consumed in Japan, none of it is exported
directly. Japan does not permit laver imports from China, thus Hong Kong-based companies get
involved to correct these market distortions.
the market situation, financial efficiency of the various technologies, and, to some extent,
the degree of risk associated with the various subcomponents.
18.           Animal Husbandry. The project supported livestock production, mainly
as a sideline activity for rural households, to utilize underemployed family labor, crop
residues, and naturally occurring grasses. The project was to provide improved breeding
stock (both domestic and imported), on-farm infrastructure, veterinary facilities and
breeding stations for promotion of Artificial Insemination (AI), and animal collection
stations for an expected annual incremental output of 1.09 million goats, 1.02 million
rabbits, 129,300 mink, and 460,000 ducks.  Implementation and production objectives



- 7 -
were substantially met or exceeded for all subprojects except mink, which was abandoned
after collapse of the international fur market in 1990. Mink cages were reported to have
been used for raising doves; however, this practice did not spread throughout the project
area, probably because of limited market opportunity. After a slow start, farmers appear
to have adopted Al for goats and rabbits. With the introduction of the market economy
and the cessation of government procurement for state-owned enterprises' (SOEs') raw
material supplies, designs of collection stations were adjusted to set up specialized livestock
trading centers, which have been very successful. Despite the fact that no imported
breeding stock was ever procured, local breeds of Shaneng goats (from Shaanxi) and
Angora breeding rabbit stock from a Jiangsu-Germany cooperative breeding farm appear
to have given acceptable results. Locally produced Cherry Valley duck parent stock was
introduced, but when the market for this type of duck declined, project authorities
substituted a local breed, which contributed to processing difficulties (the automatic
processing line procured for the duck slaughter damaged the skin surface of larger ducks
and left feathers intact on the smaller ones) (Box 2). FRRs and ERRs were calculated for
each category of production activity, using the production costs and output prices provided
by the Project Management Office (PMO); generally, the FRRs and ERRs are substantially
higher than calculated at appraisal, ranging from 26 percent to > 100 percent (FRRs) and
56 to > 100 percent (ERRs).
19.        In addition to the livestock production activities, the project included
construction or expansion of and equipment for six agroindustries (Yancheng down factory,
Dafeng fur processing, Yancheng meat canning factory, Dongtai tannery, Dafeng goat
slaughterhouse; and Sheyang duck processing/down factory); three feedmills (Sheyang,
Xiangshui and Dongtai) and a training center (Yancheng).  Five out of the six
agroprocessing facilities (all except the goat slaughterhouse) were constructed as planned
at appraisal. Further construction of the goat slaughterhouse ceased after constructing a
cold store, and the subproject remained at this level. Also, the Yancheng meat canning
was never put into operation and the Sheyang duck processing factory was closed in 1993.
The Yancheng down factory, Dafeng fur processing and Dongtai tannery are currently in
operation. Of the three feedmills, two were constructed and put into operation; only the
mink feedmill was dropped, along with the mink production subproject. In summary, the
component as a whole has only partially met the physical and financial objectives;
however, the three agroprocessing projects in operation have FRRs at or above 12 percent,
although the one financial analysis carried out for a feed mill indicates a low FRR.



- 8 -
Box 2: JIANGsu: SHEYANG DUCK PACKING AND DowN PRoCEssING-
A SToRY OF OuiEcTnvEs NOT AcI.VFED
The plant was designed to process 2 million ducks per year into 3,100 t of meat and 350 t of feathers,
yielding 30 t of down.  Costs were projected to be Y 6.45 million, but were actually Y 10.285
million. At the time of appraisal, the price of live ducks was Y 2.4/kg and duck meat Y 5.0/kg,
allowing a margin of Y 4.4/duck to cover processing and profit. The company stared operation with
purchase contracts, but did not offer growers inputs or technical support. By June 1992, the price of
live duck had risen to Y 4.3/kg and duck meat stayed at Y 5/kg, with a margin of -Y 2.2/duck. After
one year of trial nuning, the plant ceased duck processing in July 1992 and down processing in June
1993. Other duck packing plants ceased operations during this period as well. Reasons for the
closures include a shift in balance of consumption among poultry types, from duck to chicken, with
much faster growth in chicken against fairly stagnant duck consumption levels. There has also been
an increase in the small shop and individual sales of birds, at the expense of the large public sector
packing operations. The product of this factory was heterogenous in size and meatiness, and it had
significant skin blemishes, blood clots and pin feathers because the automated line was unable to
perform well on such a wide variety of bird sizes and conformations.
The problem of nonuniform live ducks supplied to the plant was recognized early in the development
stage. The original design was for an imported, uniform meat breed, and the equipment was related
to that choice. Local officials claimed that there was no market for the imported bird and went with
the local breed instead. This changed the configuration to a leaner, small individual, but this could
have been accommodated by adjustments to the equipment. The equipment supplier did in fact send
technicians to the site after start-up to adjust the lines to get the best performance on the typical local
duck conformation. However, the added problem was the wide range of age and size in the small lots
of live birds purchased from many small growers. Although the project financed production capacity
of 500,000 birds per year in the Yancheng area, there appears to be no large-scale production base
supplying this plant. Smaller growers have done better by selling their birds directly into the fresh
household or restaurant market, so the plant was stuck with a very heterogenous bird population and
the need to buy birds in small lots at variable but generally higher prices. In the plant, processing
efficiency was low, skin and limb damage considerable, and feather removal was incomplete. The
company now plans to establish its own production base, to develop new products, and to increase
marketing activities.
Lessons: In a declining market, it is the poor-quality, undistinguished commodity that suffers the
greatest decline. The Sheyang bird had no favorable distinguishing features that could have held onto
a market share. In fact, because of processing damage, it was at least visibly inferior. Furthermore,
since it was frozen, it was costly to store, and traders and merchants did not want to tie up freezer
space on this slow-moving product.
The plant was conceived in a planned economy setting, and the sponsors and managers were not able
to recognize the source of their problem as failure to respond to changing market conditions. The
industrialized poultry business is highly volatile in a shifting economy, usually because the margins are
so small when using improved inputs to compete with extensively fed birds and street-side butchers.
It requires an intimate knowledge of market segments and the specialization of product or market to
avoid head-on competition with the old-style poultry business until opportunity costs drive its cost up
as well, which may take 10 years or more.
Recommendation: No new investment in production base should be undertaken in Sheyang without
a careful evaluation of the market conditions faced by the enterprise, and the identification of various
options for the use of the facilities that have been created, ranging from the obvious one of starting
over again with ducks to alternatives such as processing chickens, leasing out the plant to another
operator, or selling the equipment and using the plant for an entirely different purpose. Now is the
time for this fundamental review, before any new capital is committed to this site.



- 9 -
20.         The total cost of the animal husbandry component was Y 84.73 million or
11 percent of total project costs, compared to the SAR estimate of Y 107.03 (base cost
plus physical and price contingencies) or 12 percent of total project costs.
21.         Near the end of the implementation period, there was a question as to
whether Bank disbursements for the animal husbandry subproject in Jiangsu had been
partially reallocated to other subprojects without the Bank being informed, as had happened
from time to time in Jiangsu (para. 47). It appeared that farmers' financed their on-farm
investments (Y 17.09 million) by their own independent borrowing from ABC and that the
Loan/Credit funds designated for this purpose (about $2.0 million) were used to finance
other subprojects. About two months before the scheduled Loan Closing, the Bank
requested that the Jiangsu PMO provide a list of expenditures incurred for the component.
Lack of a response before the Closing Date led the Bank to conclude that extension could
not be justified, and the original Closing Date for the Jiangsu component was maintained,
even though an extension had been requested.
22.         Agriculture. The project helped to provide funds and inputs for developing
some 18,300 ha of fruit orchards, nut groves and grape vineyards in the near-coastal
regions-about 10 percent more area than at appraisal. These areas comprised both new
orchards and improvements to existing orchards. Implementation and production objectives
were substantially met or exceeded for all subprojects. Intercropping, which is widely
practiced, not only reduces the need for additional inputs specifically for the orchards
during the prematurity period, but also provides farm income before the trees start bearing.
Benefits are shared between individual farmers and the village/township through imposition
of contract fees, a practice that appears to place the majority share of benefits in the hands
of the village/township governments, even after taking account of their loan repayment
responsibility.   Only one species seems to have saturated the market at this
point-hawthorn; this has been reflected in a steady decline in prices in nominal terms
from Y 800/t in 1988 to Y 200/t in 1993, and while drought in 1994 pushed prices back
to Y 600/t, it is unlikely that this price level will be maintained in normal years. Gingko
may experience a similar situation in the future, as its current farm-gate price of
Y 48,000/ton can be expected to decline as the project area reaches full development
production levels and new areas in other locations come onstream.
23.         In addition to cold storage facilities for fruits and nuts, two processing
facilities were included in the project: a grape juice plant and hawthorn processing, both
under Lianyungang municipality. Incomplete cost and financial data do not allow FRRs
and ERRs to be recalculated for the individual components, but site inspection of the
hawthorn processing plant indicates that the facility is operated at far less than its capacity
would allow and suggests lack of funding, poor management and possible market
problems.
24.         The total cost of the agriculture component was Y 54.55 million or 7 percent
of total cost, compared to the SAR estimate of Y 54.35 million (base cost plus physical
and price contingencies) or 6 percent of total costs. Cost increases were incurred in the
agroprocessing facilities (consolidated financial material provided for the two



- 10-
agroprocessing plants does not permit pinpointing which plant incurred cost overruns) and
construction of one additional storage facility. FRRs and ERRs for the production
activities fell in the very high ranges of 28 to 59 percent and 35 to 79 percent,
respectively.
25.         Agriculture Technology. The Jiangsu Ocean Administration Bureau chose
subprojects for this component from projects endorsed by the Science and Technology
Commission under the SPARK program, a national program to promote innovative
technologies in rural areas. Designed to test unproven technologies, it might be expected
that the "success" ratio would be less than for normal development projects, and this was
the case.  After approval of the project, though, it seemed that in the face of any
substantial challenge, whether it was purchase of patented technology (as in the case of
shrimp feed mills and rapeseed processing) or participation by a foreign partner (serology
test kits), implementation ceased. Of the eight subprojects, only one, the barley and malt
development/processing subproject, achieved most of its objectives-creation of a
production base to increase output of a field-proven, relatively superior beer barley and
construction of a malt plant with modified technology to produce basic brewery material
of high standard; the other objective, funding of a research program to further improve
malt quality through breeding of improved barley varieties, does not seem to have been
pursued any further. Another of the subprojects, improvement of asparagus production and
processing (Ganyu Fruit & Vegetable Freezing Plant), achieved good commercial viability,
but only after abandoning its emphasis on hybrid asparagus and switching to other locally
produced fruits and vegetables. Its objectives were to continue an asparagus improvement
program using modem biotechnology techniques to produce male hybrid varieties and to
introduce modem technology for quick freezing and canning of asparagus, and to
experiment with new technology to produce other asparagus products utilizing processing
waste. A three-year contract was made with the Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences
(JAAS) for tissue culture work aimed at increasing yields by moving to a larger population
of male plants and overcoming a stem wilt problem. JAAS was also to have worked on
developing new food products (forms and packs) for the enterprise. Both these initiatives
were failures; the plantation is normal male/female plant balance and the enterprise
manages its stem wilt problem by completing the harvest before the summer rains, when
the fungus that causes stem wilt develops. Despite these shortcomings in the results of the
original design, the enterprise has been successful in developing a wide variety of high-
quality fresh, frozen and dried fruit and vegetable products (including asparagus) with a
good export market.
26.         The total cost of the agricultural technology component was Y 22.51 million
or 3 percent of total project costs, compared to the SAR estimate of Y 40.54 (base cost
plus physical and price contingencies) or 5 percent of total costs.
C. MAOR FACTORS AFECTING THE PRoJEcT
27.         The total project cost was Y 801.68 million ($183.52 million) compared to
the appraisal estimate of Y 887.67 million ($217.00 million)-cost underruns of 10 percent
in Yuan terms or 15 percent in Dollar terms. The completed cost of the Jiangsu



- 11 -
component was Y 569.56 million, compared to the SAR estimate of Y 648.39 million-a
cost underrun of 12 percent, while the Zhejiang component cost Y 231.67 million,
compared to the SAR estimate of Y 239.29 million-a cost underrun of 3 percent.
28.          There were no significant implementation delays. In Jiangsu, most project
activities were completed in 1992 and the project was closed as originally scheduled. In
Zhejiang, some difficulties were experienced in sea dike construction, but these were
resolved with the help of the PMO. Project works in Zhejiang involved new pond
construction, which could only be carried out after considerable time had been spent on
sea dike construction and which translated into lengthy periods without benefits; thus, when
one subproject (Dingshan) dropped out, after suffering considerable typhoon damage and
determining that shrimp production in such a location was not their best economic option,
project authorities requested that these funds be shifted to pond improvement at other
locations (Zhoushan and Dongtou) in order to gain quick benefits, and the Bank agreed in
1991 to investments of Y 48.1 million and Y 8.2 million, respectively. While the Dongtou
subproject was completed, at Zhoushan local authorities stopped investments at Y 35
million after two years of losses due to red tides and diseases. The PMO has provided a
plan to complete the investment starting in late 1995, but this would be conditional on
reevaluating prospects for recovery of the industry or related uses for the ponds. The
Zhejiang component was substantially completed by June 1993, but the PMO requested and
the Bank agreed to an extension of the Closing Date by one year to allow them to enforce
quality control measures (holding up payments until subproject construction activities met
the design standards).
29.          Shrimp Disease. In 1993, China experienced very serious early mortalities
in its shrimp production. This disease, which is likely caused by a virus, most seriously
affected the endemic Chinese white shrimp P. orientalis, but unrelated species in the South
also suffered substantial losses. The outbreak affected the livelihood of thousands of
shrimp farmers, caused direct and indirect losses on the order of hundreds of millions of
Yuan and brought the entire vertically integrated industry including feedmills, cold stores,
processing and marketing facilities to a standstill (see Box 3). Soon after the disease
occurred, all parties involved desperately tried to analyze and understand the reasons
behind this violent disease outbreak, without conclusive results.2/ Potential contributing
factors include virtually every component in shrimp production including overly high
stocking densities, generally deteriorating water quality, changes in pH, salinity, dissolved
oxygen, inappropriate feed and feed management, infected broodstock, etc. There is
2/    The Bank has worked with various project organizations to submit specimens for histologic analysis
by one of the world's foremost authorities on shrimp disease, Dr. Donald Lightner at the University
of Arizona. Samples from Bank projects in Zhejiang, Hebei and Shandong were submitted to him
after the December mission; his analysis of the Zhejiang adult brood stock specimens showed that
while he could not determine conclusively whether these animals were carrying the China virus
HHNBV (a name given by the Yellow Sea Fisheries Institute in China), (1) there were lesions in
various organs and connective tissue which may be indicative of low-grade carrier state infections,
and (2) the animals evidenced enlarged lymphoid organs which is sometimes associated with active
bacterial or viral infections, but also recently shown to occur in recovered animals and/or those with
low-grade chronic infections by systemic viruses. Dr. Lightner believes that further analysis awaits
development of gene-probe technology, currently being developed.



- 12 -
evidence that all of these factors may have played a role in one area or another, yet overall
none of the factors explain why the disease hit harder in China than in most other
countries. In fact, management standards in China's shrimp farms are fairly high by
international standards.
Box 3: THE SHRRIM  IND TY-HARD LESSONS
Starting from virtually zero in 1979, China became the leading exporter of shrimp in the late 1980s
and held this position until the early 1990s when production leveled off at around 200,000 metric tons
and Thailand took over. Total investment in shrimp culture during the 1980s exceeded $2 billion,
making shrimp farming the most rapidly developing export industry in the fisheries sector. About
160,000 ha of ponds, several hundred hatcheries with a capacity of 100 billion post-larvae and related
infrastructure such as cold stores and feedmills were established. At its peak in 1992, the industry
provided I million jobs, and export earnings exceeded $500 million, equivalent to one third of the total
foreign exchange earnings of the fisheries sector. Several years of high performance in China were
followed by a disastrous collapse in production in 1993, down to merely 80,000 metric tons, affecting
almost the entire coastline of China. Similar disease-related events were observed earlier in other
major producing economies such as Taiwan (China) (in the late 1980s) and Indonesia (in the early
1990s), as well as several Latin American countries, where shrimnp output dropped sharply after years
of expansion.
30.           At present, it is believed that the disease is caused by a virus known as
Rhabdovirus-PJ.   However, it is still unclear how  it is transmitted and what role
environmental factors play in the epidemic. In 1994, in spite of extensive changes to the
culturing practices, the shrimp virus again had a devastating effect on Chinese shrimp
production. It spread very quickly, affected large areas, and caused the shrimp to die at
an early stage of development. Because of the high mortality rates in the affected areas,
the shrimp that were harvested were only 40 to 60 days old, and measured only 6 to 7 cm
in length.  The economic impact in both Jiangsu and Zhejiang has been serious,
considering not only the loss of production inputs, but also the losses incurred by the feed
mills and processors/cold stores.
31.           Eel Profitability. The decline in total and average unit output appears to
be due to weak financial performance of market eel production in the project area, which
has led to a shift to elver production in the later years of project development. This shift
had dramatically improved profitability of eel farming. Nevertheless, the profit margin of
elver and market eel production has been narrowing due to the rapidly escalating cost of
wild caught seed (glass) eels in recent years. If this trend continues, the financial viability
of eel and elver farming may be seriously threatened in the project area. This is largely
due to the lower production costs of market-size eels in warmer southern provinces,
particularly Guangdong. Glass eels have to be caught in the wild and supplies fluctuate
over time. Historically, China catches about 40 t of glass eels per year (total catch in the
East Asia region is about 100 t per year), barely enough to maintain its current eel
production. With increasing demand, the pressure on the resource will increase and
further brood stock price rises are likely.



- 13 -
32.         This trend is of particular concern because the export prices for eel are high
at present, and yet, eel producers appear to operate at the margin. Japan is the principal
export market for the eels produced in China. The demand has increased as Japanese
domestic production, as well as the production in Taiwan (China) and the Republic of
Korea, has decreased. Approximately 70 percent of eel production from China is currently
exported in live form. The balance of eel production is smoked, seasoned and frozen. In
1994 the export price in dollars was $16,500 per ton or approximately 1,617,000 yen in
Japan. This accounts for only minor increases for the Japanese buyer over 1992 and 1993
prices, but a major increase for the Chinese producer of about 40 percent as a result of the
recent exchange rate adjustments. Also, Chinese companies with an assigned export quota
from the Foreign Trade Bureau, now exchange 100 percent of the Dollar revenue at the
free market rate; currently one dollar equals 8.5 yuan. Despite these favorable conditions
most of the project ponds in Zhejiang were currently producing for the domestic market.
Furthermore, the low utilization rate, and the lack of positive production results have made
it more difficult for eel farms to secure financing in a tight credit market.
33.         Economic Reforms. The project was designed in the context of a planned
economy, and adoption of market-economy practices and liberalization of production have
provided mixed blessings for implementation and operation.  Government entities
participating in the project have generally followed the widespread practice of separating
their commercial operations from their regulatory functions and operating the enterprises
in the form of joint-stock or other limited-liability entities. In practice, this distinction
often does not affect either how decisions are taken or who is responsible for them.
Without legal tests in the form of suits or financial tests in the form of arm's length credit
relationships, these changes have often been cosmetic, with much the same set of
authorities and considerations governing resource allocation and operating decisions as
prevailed before the institutional change. As an example, the distinction between the
Lianyungang Development Corporation and the Lianyungang Bureau of Aquatic Products
is fuzzy, with both operating under the same manager/bureau chief, but the Development
Corporation's financial success is mainly attributable to the combination of technical
competence, entrepreneurial vision, and financial expertise of this individual. Several
enterprises clearly operate as distinct entities, where management has been given the
autonomy and resources to exercise the 14 freedoms of the economic reform. The
Asparagus Processing (Ganyu Fruit and Vegetable Freezing Plant) and the Yancheng Down
Processing Company are significant examples of this pattern, and financial results they are
realizing are directly related to the autonomy and skill evident in enterprise management.
In contrast, the enterprises that have experienced the most difficulty are those that were
designed for a centrally planned environment and that are still subject to strong local
government influence over daily operations and capital allocations. The Duck Slaughter/
Down Processing Factory (Sheyang) and the Jiangsu Ocean Fisheries Cold Store are
examples of projects that depended on central planning and control for their operation.
34.         Economic reforms have shifted the role of government entities from direct
buying to facilitating sales, e.g., the Jiangsu livestock markets. Project authorities report
that domestic prices of processed products are not always commensurate with the high
quality of product produced with the sophisticated imported equipment procured under the



- 14 -
project, but expect that with rising incomes, consumers will become more selective in their
purchasing and price differentiation will reflect varying quality standards. Also, shrimp
producers and/or farms may now choose whether to sell their output domestically or to the
FTC; more aquatic products are going directly into the domestic market, with most of
these transactions handled by local middlemen in small volumes.
35.         Even training has been impacted by the economic reforms-in the planned
economy, the project office could choose farmers for technical training, but now training
cannot be compulsory, and the project offices have difficulty in even organizing training.
D. PRoJEcT SUSTAINABELITY
36.          Shrimp. Despite its economic significance, shrimp farming in China-as
in most other countries-is primitive, dependent upon the capture of wild animals,
unsophisticated breeding practices, limited knowledge of diseases and their prevention/
control and common property water resources. It is generally recognized that long-term
sustainability has been sacrificed worldwide for short-term profitability in shrimp
production. A major effort will be required to rehabilitate the Chinese industry and to
replace the current unsustainable practices with an integrated production system based on
disease prevention, sustainable stocking densities and sound pond management techniques.
A detailed project proposal for this purpose has been discussed with the Chinese
government in the spring of 1994 and again in the fall of 1994.
37.         Eel. In eel farming the production system, as in shrimp, entirely depends
on a limited natural resource. The Bank should be extremely cautious in the future in
financing operations that rely on wild catches for the supply of fry. Too little is known
about the long-term sustainability of this system to assess the long-term economic and
ecological viability of investments in eel production in this region. This situation may
dramatically improve once techniques have been developed to multiply eels in captivity,
as has been the case with some freshwater fish species, softshell turtle and crabs, and to
a certain extent with shrimp.
38.          Laver. In light of the recent disease problems and resultant reduction in per
unit area yields, it is critical for the Jiangsu provincial government to formulate guidelines,
enact regulations, and develop enforcement capacities to control or reduce the present high
density of laver farming in the more traditional producing areas. Density of production,
which has been attributed to being the major cause of decline in yields, is likely to increase
without government intervention because of the currently strong market. Concurrent with
the development of regulations, efforts should also be made to determine what specific
causal factors affect the health and growth of the laver.
39.          Agriculture.  Production of the project's fruits and nuts is technically
sustainable, but market saturation may impact the financial sustainability. Tree farmers,
particularly when there are other sources of family income, have considerable flexibility
to react to market conditions-they can reduce inputs (labor and fertilizer), even though
this will reduce yields and production to some extent; another measure that could be taken



- 15 -
would be renegotiation of the contract fee to achieve a more equitable distribution of
benefits between producers and township/village governments.
40.         The Hawthorn Processing subproject (Ganyu) is not sustainable in its present
condition. Internal operating inefficiencies give it a higher cost structure than competitors.
The product mix and packaging need work to appeal more to customers; there is a need
for more working capital to extend the plant's operating season. There appears to be either
limited management capacity or inadequate autonomy afforded to the management by the
sponsors. Either way, the plant is not sustainable because it is not responsive to its
problems or the market around it.
41.         Aninal Husbandry. Overall, production of livestock, particularly the goat
and rabbit subprojects, proved to be popular with rural households; with an initial
investment ranging from a few hundred to a few thousand yuan, a farm family could begin
to build up herds of animals that required low inputs and a moderate level of technical
expertise and for which there was a market. After a decline in rabbit meat prices, many
farmers switched to fur rabbit production, which is even more profitable at present. The
village goat markets have greatly facilitated trade between producers and buyers. The free-
market economy has had a positive impact on this subproject, and these operations are
sustainable.
42.         Based on site visits and financial information provided, comments are made
on the following subprojects:
(a)   Down Factory Renovation (Yancheng).  Careful attention to quality,
constant contact with markets for designs and colors, dynamic management
and a motivated staff are the keys to the sustainability of this enterprise.
(b)   Duck Slaughter/Down Factory (Sheyang). Not sustainable. This plant
cannot compete with other suppliers of duck meat. Its designers failed to
take into account changes in producer habits and consumer preferences, as
well as shifts in producer practices, that were to accompany market
liberalization. Management and County ownership have been unable to
address alternative approaches to product specification, distribution or raw
material supply. There is no simple adjustment that would make this project
viable; a wide-ranging investigation of alternative uses is required to salvage
any significant share of these new assets.
(c)   Meat Canning (Yancheng). Not sustainable; in fact, never brought into
operation.
(d)   Fur Processing (Dongtai). Sustainable in its present form because it has
identified market niches that defy the current trend away from fur. Low-
cost fur species permit the company to enter markets that are not as affluent
as the West, but which are also not as influenced by activities of animal
rights groups. The firm should not go into the high-price fur markets.



- 16 -
(e)   Feedmill (Sheyang). After a poor start, this mill is now sustainable. It has
adopted an active approach to marketing and technical support for its feed,
and the management maintains that its label is now associated with a
consistent quality product. Enterprise management has matured very well
over the last several years and, despite a slow start after construction, the
plant is now working near capacity.
(f)    Goat Tannery Renovation (Dongtai). This plant is financially successful,
but its sustainability will depend on continued availability of capital to
ensure adequate raw material and supplies. The mission noted some
deterioration in quality of finished skins over the last three years, a trend
that will need to be reversed if the plant is to continue to be successful.
Finally, the enterprise and its sponsors continue to neglect the environmental
impact of the failure to treat plant effluent properly. There is some scope
for the recovery of expensive tanning agents, but the fundamental issue is
the degradation of surface water channels near the plant and the buildup of
chrome salts in the subsoil of these waterways.
43.         Agriculture Technology. Designed to test innovative technology approaches
in various fields of agricultural production and processing, commercial experience has
shown that only two of the subprojects are likely to be sustainable:
(a)   Barley Malt Processing (Yancheng). This plant is sustainable because its
simple technology has been enhanced to improve efficiency, and it has been
careful to establish market relations with a large brewery group.
(b)   Asparagus Processing (Ganyu). Sustainable, and growing fast, because it
has a clear, market-oriented strategy, good management, and an internal
organization that motivates personnel.
44.         Jiangsu Ocean Fisheries Cold Storage. This operation is not sustainable
as designed. It must find a combination of custom services and new product lines to
generate business for the facility because the sponsors have neither the capital nor the fish
to operate the plant as conceived. Furthermore, whole frozen fish are no longer the major
market item they were under central planning.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
45.         At the stage of the Bank's relationship with China in 1986, three-year
lending programs had not become a normal part of the dialogue between the Bank and
Government, and the Bank's relationship with project entities was initiated upon SPC
approval of the project for presentation to the Bank for financing consideration. Once SPC
had approved the project, its formulation and design were well under way, with
commitments between the provincial planning commissions and various participants
relatively fixed. After presentation to the Bank in August 1986, preparation of this project
proceeded quite rapidly-identification in November, preappraisal in February and



- 17 -
appraisal in June. Partly due to this rapid processing and partly due to the Bank's major
reorganization in mid-1987 with a new division chief, a postappraisal mission was carried
out in November 1987. With each visit, additional components were added to the scope
of the project in Jiangsu and what had begun as a mariculture project became a
multifaceted project involving more line agencies; at appraisal, the orchard components
were added and at postappraisal, the agriculture technology components were included.
For each addition, the amounts were relatively small compared to the total project costs
and Bank missions agreed to their inclusion. The Bank may have erred in acquiescing too
easily to repeated changes in project content during the preparation process. In Zhejiang,
changes in project content essentially served to simplify, rather than complicate, the
project.
46.         Supervision missions were undertaken about once a year, alternatively to
each province. With postappraisal in Jiangsu in the fall of 1987, the first supervision
mission was scheduled to Zhejiang in 1988 and not to Jiangsu until 1989. By this time,
implementation was well under way and the Bank had missed the opportunity to instill
"good implementation habits" (following Bank policies and procedures and encouraging
openness and candor) in Jiangsu. With the more complex and costly components being in
Jiangsu, the Bank should have focused its supervision efforts in that direction rather than
attempting an equitable distribution of time between the two provinces. During the first
full field supervision mission to Jiangsu in 1989, the Bank learned that the provincial
finance bureau (BOF) had assumed a major role in the project-onlending was being
carried out directly from the provincial BOF to the municipal BOFs.
F. BORROwER PERFORMANCE
47.         After appraisal of the project in June 1987, the provincial governments
"allocated" to all the lower-level administrative and production units all the Bank/IDA
funds anticipated under the project. Each unit was assured of entitlement to loan/credit
funds equal to 50 percent of the total cost of its investment, regardless of its requirements
for foreign exchange, and was assigned responsibility for repaying both domestic and
foreign exchange amounts.  In Jiangsu, this created problems throughout the
implementation period (particularly for enterprises with equipment requirements in excess
of their foreign exchange allocation), generated substantial opposition to international
competitive bidding (ICB) procurement (except for materials that were scarce in China at
that time-fishmeal, fertilizer, steel, timber, etc.) and led all levels of government to adopt
a sense of exclusive ownership over the funds, often omitting to involve or even inform
the Bank about design changes, project modifications and procurement decisions. For
example, only ex-post did the Bank learn that the Dafeng fur factory subproject (Yancheng)
was modified to cover construction of a completely new facility instead of the expansion
envisaged at appraisal; the orchard subproject was modified to include two cold stores
instead of one; and the Jiangsu Ocean Fisheries Cold Store, which at appraisal had been
one of 14 cold stores supporting the shrimp development with a combined total cost of
about Y 30 million, was actually an SOE for the provincial BAP's marine fishing fleet and
was expanded and modified until its cost alone reached a level of Y 25 million



- 18 -
(furthermore, the facility was still under construction during the ICR mission, and
prospects for its sustainability are poor).
48.         Shortly after appraisal, SPC agreed with the provincial governments on a
list of materials to be procured through ICB and though some progress was made in
expanding the list, the agreed Minutes of Negotiation included as an annex a list of
equipment that could be procured as exceptions to ICB (mostly agroprocessing auxiliary
equipment for Jiangsu and construction and production equipment for Zhejiang). However,
with liberal interpretation of exactly what constituted "accessory" and "supporting"
equipment, virtually all cold store and most feed mill equipment for Jiangsu was procured
locally. Total ICB procurement amounted to about $26.3 million ($17.0 million in Jiangsu
and $9.3 million in Zhejiang) compared to the SAR estimate of $41.8 million.
49.         The Zhejiang Provincial PMO was particularly effective in accomplishing
the construction objectives. They implemented a unified engineering review that we
recommend be incorporated into the construction phase of other agricultural development
projects in China. This review required an engineering and construction team to review
the design of the shrimp farms, eel ponds and supporting facilities. This team would then
inspect the construction during the project development, and the financial review and
acceptance would be carried out by this monitoring organization. Only at the time of
acceptance of the construction work by the review team would the PMO disburse the final
payments to the prefecture and county levels. This system resulted in more cost-effective
designs and the adaptation of new technologies such as the use of geotextiles in the sea
dike at Damutu. The PMO adhered to the LCB and ICB bidding procedures and submitted
frequently lists of planned procurement for Bank review.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.         The project's likely outcome cannot be reliably assessed in the light of the
uncertainties facing the two major project components, shrimp and eel production, which
account for two thirds of the total project cost. Both components are generating marginal
or negative financial and economic benefits at present. The shrimp component was based
on production practices that, while generating high profit levels in the early years, have
proved to be unsustainable over the long term, and recovery of the industry will most
likely be based on a major rehabilitation effort involving virtually every aspect of
production. Even if the project ponds were to be devoted to polyculture of other marine
species, the output from such a large-scale effort would face market uncertainties. The eel
component, dependent on a limited natural resource (fry caught in the wild), faces
economic and ecological uncertainties and the long-term sustainability is questionable. The
outcome of the laver component has been and will likely continue to be highly satisfactory,
provided production density is reduced, either voluntarily by the producers or by
government restriction. The outcome of the animal husbandry and agriculture components'
production activities has been satisfactory and will likely continue. The outcome of the
agroprocessing subprojects (in the animal husbandry, agriculture and agriculture technology
components) has been mixed, with successes generally related to high degrees of
management autonomy and responsiveness to market conditions.



- 19 -
H. FUTURE OPERATION
51.          Shrimp. Since project initiation, there has been a series of shrimp epidemic
catastrophes [commencing with Taiwan (China) in 1988] in all major producing countries
worldwide, which has changed the global outlook on investment in shrimp culture in
general. The disease incidence in 1993 and 1994 makes it very clear that similar to the
situation in other countries, China's shrimp industry will have to go through a major
readjustment. Two concurrent efforts will likely be required to salvage the industry:
(a) a comprehensive scientific analysis, which may require substantial central government
Bureau of Aquatic Products technical and financial involvement, that systematically
determines the specific causes of and the development of means to control shrimp mortality
and (b) continuation of the shift to lower production intensity and polyculture with other
species (e.g., crabs, clams, finfish, etc.) at existing farms. The latter would require
identification of new markets for fresh or processed products for species (other than
shrimp) that presently have weaker market potential, which would likely not meet the
needs of large-scale production. The sooner both measures are initiated, the better the
chances of success, since the condition of existing farms and support facilities (hatcheries,
feed mills, and processors/cold stores) will otherwise deteriorate and likely become
dysfunctional due to lack of regular maintenance. The objective of the research effort
should be to facilitate the necessary transition toward more sustainable shrimp farming in
China, and the components would likely require a detailed survey of affected areas
identifying the factors causing shrimp mortality, coordination with other affected provinces,
and possibly international collaboration. Without these efforts and recovery of the shrimp
industry, the prospects for employment in the afflicted areas are extremely limited due to
most jobs being confined to aquaculture-related activities and would require costly
resettlement or public welfare programs. So far, ABC has been providing working capital
loans to affected farms, most of which will likely not be recovered due to the persistent
production problems. Continued credit support from ABC is anticipated by these farms,
though the farms have no clear strategy on how to deal with the technical problems and
mounting debt.
52.          The research effort appears to be insufficiently funded at present and will
require a more comprehensive and coordinated central government approach involving
other provinces (for example, almost all northern provinces obtain their broodstock from
one area of the Yellow Sea off the Shandong coast) and possibly international
collaboration. Reduction in shrimp seed stocking densities, feed rates, and per unit area
production targets has not shown significant improvement in survival rates in the project
area to date. The polyculture of marine species has been shown to be technically feasible
and economically viable on a small scale; however, definite concerns remain over the
strength of the market for the promising species and feasibility of widespread application
of the technology. Similarly, there is a limit to the alternate employment options for
affected farmers due to the constraints of the natural setting of shrimp farms. It is also
likely that the current shortage of operating capital will lead to deterioration in the
condition of shrimp ponds due to neglect of required annual pond maintenance.



- 20 -
53.         Eel. Due to the uncertainty of the future financial viability of eel farming
in the project area, further expansion of eel farming with government support should not
take place. Rather, efforts at improving the efficiency of the existing facilities should be
explored.
54.         Laver. Increasing market demand and higher unit prices for laver have
resulted in a rapid expansion of the cultivated area and intensity of production.
Concurrently, in some of the more developed areas, per unit area yields have declined,
possibly due to insufficient nutrients for optimal growth and health or other biochemical
defense mechanism/disease causal agents of the plants due to overcrowding. In Nantong,
for example, where production problems including up to 60 percent mortality have
occurred in some areas, the number of laver processing sets has increased from 3 to 63 (21
times) while the production area has increased from 200 ha to 2,000 ha (10 times).
Moreover, the production density in Nantong is 3,750 m2 of culture net per ha of water
surface area. In Lianyungang, where a production problem has not occurred, 2,700 m2
of culture net is used per ha. The higher production density in Nantong could be a result
of the rapidly increasing demand by the laver processors with limited suitable production
area in the vicinity. The importance of production density for laver culture has been
recognized by the PMO. In response, provincial authorities are developing policy
guidelines to control production density, introducing superior species, and applying
improved production technologies.
55.         Project Offices. In Jiangsu, the PMO indicated its intention to propose to
the provincial government that the office be maintained with the following functions:
monitoring production, carrying out market studies to help borrowers, coordinating
training, and helping to ensure repayment; they are also recommending that the city and
county project offices be maintained with 2 to 3 staff each. In Zhejiang, the PMO will be
incorporated into the provincial BAP and the BAP will assume responsibility for bringing
the project up to its production potential.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
56.         Shrimp is too valuable a commodity, with capture fisheries production
reaching an absolute global constraint, to ignore the proven possibilities of coastal shrimp
aquaculture. On the other hand, disease represents the biggest obstacle to the financial
(and economic) viability of marine shrimp farming, and epidemics have had catastrophic
results in Taiwan (China), Indonesia, Thailand, Ecuador, Mexico, Philippines, China and
most recently, India. A sustained and multifaceted approach to this problem will be
required from all sides-using such simple technology as design and construction of ponds
at carefully selected sites, to improved pond management aimed at disease prevention, with
water quality testing, environmental control and reduced stocking density, to worldwide
collaboration among producing countries, whose scientists' current research and
development efforts are focusing on sophisticated diagnostic tools, genetic resistance and
high-health broodstock. Meanwhile, further investments in coastal shrimp farming with
the least risk would be those where natural conditions allow a fall-back position for
production, e.g., an accessible water source that could be utilized to shift production to



- 21 -
high-valued fresh or brackish-water species of fish or other crustaceans for which there is
a unfulfilled market demand. In the future, the starting point for production may have to
shift from captured broodstock to controlled breeding, for which the technology has yet
to be developed.
57.          Further investments in eel farming, even though not at such dramatic risk
from disease, will be more stable once the technology is developed for breeding in
captivity. Despite limited research, no significant breakthroughs have yet been made in
this field. Meanwhile, government support should be directed at improving the efficiency
of existing facilities rather than further expansion.
58.          While the major components of the project were at risk in the production
phase and dependent on factors basically out of the producers' control, the success of
agroprocessing subprojects is clearly related to their management autonomy and
responsiveness to market conditions. Experience emphasizes the importance of (a) greater
attention to commercial aspects of feasibility studies, both in terms of markets for finished
goods and reliable sources of raw materials; (b) direct contact between management and
markets, preferably through contractual relationships that provide access to information and
inputs to insure consumer acceptance; and (c) management responsibilities and internal
organization conducive to motivation of both managers and workers to exercise initiative
and to respond promptly to market conditions.



- 22 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT
A. Achievement
of              Substantial     Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Objective
Macroeconomic
policies                               X_
Sector policies          _X_
Financial objectives                   _X_
Institutional
development            _X_
Physical objectives                    _X
Poverty reduction                                     X
Gender concerns                                                      X
Other social objectives                                              X_
Environmental objectives   X_
Public sector management               _X_
Private sector
development            _X_
Other
B. Project Sustainability      Likely          Unlikely           Uncertain
Aquaculture                   _X_
Agriculture                      X__
Animal Husbandry                 X
Agroprocessing                _X_
Agriculture Technology                                            _X_
C. Bank performance              Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                     X_
Preparation assistance                             X_
Appraisal                                          X-
Supervision                          _X_



- 23 -
D. Borrower performance          Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Jiangsu:
Preparation                    _X-
Implementation                                     X
Covenant compliance            _X_
Operation                                        _X_
Zhejiang:
Preparation                                     _X
Implementation                                   _ X
Covenant compliance                                X-
Operation                                       =X=
E. Assessment of outcome                                                X-



- 24 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANs/CREDITs
Loan/credit title         Purpose            Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Rural Credit II       Ag. credit           FY84    Completed.
(Cr 1462-CHA)
2. Freshwater Fisheries  Aquaculture          FY86    Completed.
(Cr 1689-CHA)
Following operations
3. Shandong Agricultural    Area development  FY89    Closed 12/31/94. ICR mission
Development                                          scheduled for 4/95.
(Cr 2017-CHA)
4. Guangdong Agricultural  Area development   FY92    Under implementation; shrimp
Development                                          component substituted by polycul-
(Cr 2924-CHA)                                        ture.
5. Songliao Plain Agricul-   Area development  FY94    Shrimp pond rehab subproject
tural Development                                    delayed and possible substitution of
(Cr 2571-CHA)                                        river crab subproject under consid-
eration.
Table 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                                                11/29/86
Preparation (Preappraisal)                                       02/13 - 3/7/87
Appraisal                                                       06/13 - 6/30/87
Postappraisal                                                   10/31 - 11/7/87
Negotiations                                                     02/1 - 2/5/88
Board Presentation                                                 03/29/88
Signing                                04/15/88                    09/14/88
Effectiveness                          06/30/88                     12/09/88
Project Completion                     12/31/92                    06/30/94
Loan Closing                           06/30/93                    06/30/94



- 25 -
Table 4: LOAN/CRED1r DISBURSEMES: CUMULATIVE ESIMATED   D ACTUAL
($'000)
T__ _   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal Estimate     19,000  38,500  66,500  91,000  100,000
Actual
Jiangsu
Ln. 2924-CHA             -   2,774  10,245  18,190   25,437   23,446
Cr. 1887-CHA         19,850  38,450  39,330  39,330   39,330   39,330
Actual
Zhejiang
Ln. 2924-CHA              -      -    594   4,332    9,690    9,162
Cr. 1887-CHA         6,830  12,060  18,100  18,100   18,100   18,100
Total                 26,680  53,284  68,269  79,952   92,557   90,038
Actual as % of            140    138    103        88       93        -
Estimate
Date of final         May 23,
disbursement             1994



- 26 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicator                     Estimated      Actual
in SAR/President's Report
JIANGSU
Shrimp         Shrimp ponds - new (ha)                              3,958       2,095
production      Shrimp ponds - improved (ha)                        4,303       4,635
Cold stores (no. /capacity)                     14/5,300 t   12/2,600 t
Feedmills (no./capacity)                       12/27,500 t   5/10,500 t
Eel production   Enclosed ponds (m2)                               87,000     135,992
Open ponds (ha)                                      32.7           0
Laver production Culture fields (ha)                                  273       1,107
Hatcheries (m)                                      3,600       9,100
Processing equipment (no.)                             19          34
Agriculture     Production
Grapes (ha)                                           540         515
Chestnuts (ha)                                      1,300       1,299
Hawthorn (ha)                                       3,500       3,500
Orchards (ha)                                       2,000       2,000
Gingko (ha)                                         9,364      10,999
Agroprocessine
Grape juice                               New construction Implemented
Haw;horn processing                       New construction Implemented
Animal         Goats
Husbandry      Breeding stock (no.)                                61,500      78,360
Veterinary/Al stations (no.)                           35          35
On-farm sheds (m2)                                214,000     354,464
Rabbits
Breeding stock-foreign (no.)                          600           0
"-domestic (no.)                               1,000      15,733
Veterinary/Al stations (no.)                           56          35
On-farm sheds (m2)                                145,000      64,309
Breeding farms (no.)                                    2           6
Ducks/fish
Breeding ducks-foreign (set)                           10           0
"-domestic (ea)                                4,000       4,600
Duck Hatchery                                           1           1
Fish ponds (ha)                                       100         120
On-farm pens (m2)                                  18,860      16,000
Mink
Breeding stock-foreign (no.)                        3,000           0
-domestic (no.)                           7,000      10,177
Breeding farm (no.)                                     1           1
On-farm cages (m2)                                125,000      10,506



- 27 -
Key Implementation Indicator                     Estimated      Actual
in SAR/President's Report                                            l
Agroprocessing   Agroprocessin2
Down factory (Yancheng)                         Expansion Implemented
Goat slaughterhouse                                  New    Cold store
Dongtai tannery                                 Expansion Implemented
Duck slaughter                                       New  Implemented
Meat canning                                    Expansion Implemented
Fur factory                                     Expansion        New
Feed mill (Sheyang)                                  New  Implemented
Feed mill (Xiangshui)                           Expansion Implemented
Mink feed mill (Dongtai)                             New      Dropped
Agriculture     Shrimp Feed (Sheyang)                     New formulation  Std feed mill
technology     Shrimp Feed (Haimen)                        New formulation    Dropped
Mink Feed                                  New formulation    Dropped
Rapeseed processing                     Patented technology   Dropped
Sesbania                                   Gum production Implemented
Barley/Malt                             Barley improvement Implemented
Malt factory expansion Implemented
Serology test kits                              Production    Dropped
Asparagus                   Breed improvement and processing Implemented
ZHEJIANG
Shrimp         Shrimp ponds - new (ha)                              1,382       1,265
production     Shrimp ponds - improved (ha)                             -         465
Feedmills (no./capacity)                         4/8,200 t   4/10,100 t
Cold stores (no./capacity)                       5/1,300 t    5/1,450 t
Eel production   Warm water (ha)                                       42         2.8
Enclosed (ha)                                           2           -
Open (ha)                                              89        39.4
Net cages (ha)                                          -         0.3
Roast eel plant (no.)                                   1           -
Carton factory (no.)                                    1 I
Eel transfer station (no.)                              1           I



- 28 -
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PaOjECr OPERATION
Key Operating Indicators in  Estimatod       Actual
SAR/President's Roport
JIANGSU
Shrimp production    Shrimp ponds (new)
Yield (t/ha)               1.95
Shrimp ponds (improved)
Yield (t/ha)               1.95
Agriculture          Production:
Grapes
Yield (t/ha)                1S              9.3
Chestnuts
Yield (t/ha)               2.25             1.6
Hawthorn
Yield (t/ha)               3                7.4
Orchards
Yield (t/ha)               15-21 t          15
Gingko
Yield (t/ha)               1.5-3.75         1.9
Animal Husbandry     Production:
Goats
Annual production          1.09 million     1.6 million
Rabbits
Annual production          1.016 million    1.1 million
Mink
Annual production          129,300          Dropped
Ducks/fish
Annual production          460,000          520,000
ZHEJIANG
Shrimp production    Shrimp ponds (new)
Yield (t/ha)               1.95



- 29 -
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defmed
Study      at appraisal/redefined    Status  Impact of Study
NOT APPLICABLE



- 30 -
Table SA: PRoJEcT Coms
($ million)
l____________________________    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/latest estimate
Item                         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs          costs   costs
JIANGSU
1. Shrimp Development        46.7    31.9   78.6   47.9        8.5   56.4
2. Eel Development             8.9     7.2   16.1   10.2       8.3    18.5
3. Laver Development           2.6     1.4    4.0    7.0    10.0   17.0
4. Agriculture                 6.3     5.8   12.1    9.1       4.0   13.1
5. Animal Husbandry            8.3    15.4   23.7    6.4    12.2   18.6
6. Agr. Technology             4.0     4.9    8.9    3.2       2.6    5.8
7. Ocean Fisheries Co.                                5.6      1.0    6.6
8. Overseas training and Tech                                  0.6    0.6
Assistance
Base Cost                   76.8    66.6  143.4   89.4    47.2   136.6
Physical Contingencies       6.9      5.6   12.5
Price Contingencies           1.5     1.3    2.8
Subtotal                   85.2    73.5  158.7   89.4    47.2   136.6
ZHEJIANG
1. Shrimp Development         14.4    18.2   32.6   20.5    18.2   38.7
2. Eel Development            12.8     7.9   20.7    5.1       3.1     8.2
Base Cost                   27.2    26.1   53.3   25.6    21.3   46.9
Physical Contingencies       1.9      1.8    3.7
Price Contingencies          0.7      0.6    1.3
Subtotal                   29.8    28.5   58.3   25.6    21.3   46.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           115.0   102.0  217.0  115.0    68.5  183.5



- 31 -
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate           Actual estimate
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs             costs    costs
JIANGSU
IBRD/IDA                  0.0      69.0     69.0    15.6       47.2     62.8
Domestic cont.           85.2       4.5     89.7    73.8        0.0      73.8
Subtotal              85.2      73.5    158.7    89.4       47.2    136.6
Zhe iang                                                                      l
IBRD/IDA                  2.5     28.5      31.0      5.9      21.3     27.2
Domestic cont.           27.3       0.0     27.3    19.7        0.0     19.7
Subtotal             29.8      28.5      58.3    25.6      21.3      46.9
Total                115.0    102.0    217.0   115.0       68.5    183.5



- 32 -
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSmS AND BENEF                 La
Key Operating Indicators in   Estimated         Actual
SAR/President's Report
JIANGSU
Shrimp production     Shrimp ponds (new)
FRR/ERR                      13.8% / 37.8%     <12% / <12%
Shrimp ponds (improved)
FRR/ERR                      18.3% 144.5%      <12% 1 <12%
Eel production        Enclosed/open ponds
FRR/ERR                      13.8% 1 29.9%     < 12% / < 12%
Laver production      Culture fields
FRR/ERR                      15.0% / 36.5%     24% / 27%
Agriculture            Production:
Grapes
FRR/ERR                      11.9% /18.0%      28% / 35%
Chestnuts
FRR/ERR                      17.8% / 25.1%     29% / 39%
Hawthomn
FRR/ERR                      13.2% / 18.4%     31% / 79%
Orchards
FRR/ERR                      16.8% / 23.8%     59% / 62%
Gingko
FRR/ERR                      12.8% / 16.1%     51% / 52%
... Continued



- 33 -
Key Operating Indicators in  Estimated         Actual
SAR/President's Report
Animal Husbandry      Production:
Goats
FRR/IRR                     15.5% / 43.0%     >100% / >100%
Rabbits
FRR/IRR                     19.1% / 43.5%     26% / 56%
Mink
FRR/IRR                     13.9% / 32.1%     Dropped
Ducks/fish
FRR/IRR                     12.4% 1 28.5%     49% / 63%
Processing:
Down factory (Yancheng)
FRR
Goat slaughterhouse           -                23.3%
FRR
Dongtai tannery               -                Not operational
FRR
Duck slaughter                -                25.4%
FRR
Meat canning                  -                Not operational
FRR
Fur factory                   -                Not operational
FRR
Feed mill (Sheyang)           -                11.6%
FRR
Feed mill (Xiangshui)         -                2.6%
FRR
Mink feed mill                -                Negative
-                Dropped
ZHEJIANG
Shrimp production     Shrimp ponds (new)
FRR/ERR                     13.0% / 27.3%     <12%  <12%
Shrimp ponds (improved)
FRR/ERR                      -                <12%  <12%
Eel production        Enclosed/open ponds
FRR/ERR                     14.2% / 39.4%     < 12% / 14%
/a Calculations available in Asia Files.
... Coninued



Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original    Revised
Covenant          Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement Section   type    Status      Date        Date                     Description of covenant                          Comments
Loan        4.01       12       C                      -      Additional events to cause cancellation or suspension:  Deleted by amendment 12/03/90
Agreement                                                    amendment of charters of ADCs, dissolution, disestablish-
I_________   ______   ________   ______   ___________  ment of ADCs or suspension  of any  of its operations
Project     2.02        5       C                      -     Provinces to maintain Provincial Coordinating Committees
Agreement                                                    and Project Offices acceptable to Bank and IDA
2.06        2      CP                      -     Interest rates at ABC's prevailing rates for similar loans for Interest rates fixed at time of
similar purposes                                       effectiveness; exception made
for infrastructure by amendment
12/03/90
2.07        2      NC                      -      Corporations to use net receipts due to differences in timing  Deleted by amendment 12/03/90
between subloan receipts and repayments for financing
l _________   ______   ________      __________              activities similar to  those under project nilar_to_those_under_projec
3.01        9       C      Annual                Audit report to be fumished to Bank/IDA within six months Audit reports received for each
l_____                   ___________             of end-fiscal year                                      year
Sch 2,     10      CP                      -      Agroprocessing facilities to be managed by competent staff  Management generally satisfac-
para 2                                           with experience and background acceptable to Bank/IDA   tory, but IDA never consulted
Sch 2,     10      CP                      -     Training programs to be reviewed by Bank/IDA annually    Only Zhejiang submitted for
para 3  ____                                                                                             Bank/IDA agreement
Sch 2,      9       C      Annual                Semiannual progress reports to be sent to Bank/IDA within  Reports always sent
para 4  __2 months of close of period
Sch 2,      9      NC      Annual                 Plan for provision of fertilizer to be provided to Bank/IDA   Plans never sent
l_______ para 5                                              by November I
Sch 2,     5       CP                            Establishment of working groups to study shrimp marketing  Groups only functioned in early
l_______ para 6             _                                                                                        part of project
Covenant types                                                                                                               Present status:
I Accounts/audits                                       7  Involuntary resettlement                                      C   covenant complied with
2 Financial performance/revenue generation from          8  Indigenous people                                            CD complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                         9  Monitoring, review and reporting                              CP complied with partially
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                 10  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9         NC not complied with
4 Counterpart funding                                   11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or othcr resource allocation
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency    12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 Environmental covenants                               13  Other



- 35 -
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title                   Describe and comment on
lack of compliance
NOT APPLICABLE
I
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
State of Project Cycle          Planned              Revised              Actual
Weeks        $       Weeks        $       Weeks       $
lThrough appraisal                                                     116.9
Appraisal to Board                                                       8.7      =
Board to Effectiveness
Supervision                   72.4                                      96.2      =
Completion                    12                                        14



Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project   Month/ Number of  Days in  Specialized staff skills  Implementation  Development
cycle              year    persons   field /a        represented          Rating        Objectives        Types of problems
Preappraisal      02/87       7            20 Project Officer
Economist
Agriculturist
Agroprocessing
Aquaculturist
Engineer
Conservationist
Appraisal         06/87       6            18 Project Officer
Agroprocessing
Aquaculturist
Engineer
Livestock Specialist
Marketing Specialist    _
Postappraisal      11/87      5          8 (J) Division Chief                -
Project Officer
Agriculturist
Agroprocessing
_   Lawyer
Supervision (1)    10/88      3          8 (Z) Project Officer
Engineer
Aquaculturist
Supervision (2)   09/89       4          9 (1) Project Officer               1              1
9 (Z) Aquaculturist
Credit Specialist
._____ Livestock Specialist                                                                l
Supervision (3)   07/90       2          3 (Z) Project Officer               1              1
Aquaculturist



Stage of project    Month/  Number of  Days in   Specialized staff skills   Implementation   Development
cycle                 year      persons      field /a        represented               Rating         Objectives           Types of problems
Supervision (4)       10/90        6           10 (J) Project Officer                    3                 3        Marine production, management
Economist                                                               in Jiangsu
Engineer
Agroprocessing
Livestock
___________  ____  _____Aquaculturist
Supervision (5)       11/91        4            5 (J) Project Officer                    2                2                   Management
5 (Z) Aquaculturist
Agricultual Economist
Agroprocessing
Supervision (6)   104/92           1            8 (Z) Engineer                           2                2
Supervision (7)       10/92        3            5 (J) Project Officer                    2                2
5 (Z) Aquaculturist
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~Engineer__                   _  _  _  _    _ _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _   _
Supervision (8)      03/93         1            1 (J) Project Officer                    3                2
Supervision (9)       11/93        2            8 (Z) Aquaculturist                      2                 2
_____________    ________               ~E ngineer_ _                    _  _  _  _    __   _  _  __    _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _
Completion            10/94        5            9 (3) Project Officer                    -                 -
7 (Z) Aquaculturist
Agroprocessing
Agriculturl Economist
Financial Analyst
/a 'J' indicates Jiangsu, ZZ indicates Zhejiang.



- 38 -                        Appendix A
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
Aide Memoire
1.          The mission visited Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces between October 24 and
November 7, 1994. In Jiangsu, the project, as appraised, had the following components
in three participating municipalities (Lianyungang, Yancheng and Nantong): mariculture
(shrimp--new and improved ponds, eel and laver with feed mills and cold stores); animal
husbandry (goat, mink, rabbit, duck/fish and six processing plants); agriculture (hawthorn,
gingko, chestnuts, fruit orchards, grapes and two processing plants) and agriculture
technology (eight subprojects selected to take innovative technological advances to
commercial production capacity). The project in Zhejiang had only mariculture (shrimp--
new ponds, and eel).
2.          Attachment 1 compares the major project components completed with the
appraisal estimate. As can be seen, significant changes were made in the scale of the
individual sub-components during project implementation. These adjustments were made
largely due to changes in the market situation, financial efficiency of the various
technologies, and, to some extent, the degree of risk associated with the various
sub-components.
Jiangsu
3.          The area of new shrimp ponds was reduced by almost half and the area of
improved ponds was increased by a small portion. A significant adjustment was made in
the area of laver culture--the completed area was four times the appraisal estimate; as
evidence of the commercial success of this effort became apparent, all three cities
eventually engaged in this activity, even though only two had planned to do so at appraisal.
Imported laver processing equipment (34 sets) allowed this product to be accepted in the
intemational market. For eel culture, the production technology shifted to enclosed
greenhouses and the originally planned open (uncovered) ponds were cancelled. The total
cost for aquaculture development was Y376.5 million or 94% of the SAR estimate of
Y401.1 million (base cost plus physical contingencies) with shrimp culture representing
about 60% and eel and laver culture about 20% each of the actual investment as compared
to the appraisal proportion of 80% for shrimp, 16% for eel, and 4% for laver.
4.          Mariculture Production:
(a)   Shrimp. For project ponds, annual shrimp yields increased from 2,100 t
(average 1.2 t/ha) in 1988 to 9,200 t (1.4 t/ha) in 1992 after which
significant early mortality resulted in substantially reduced yields of 0.5 tlha
in 1993. Preliminary data for 1994 are showing a further decrease to about



- 39 -                         Appendix A
0.1 t/ha.  The SAR shrimp production estimate of 1.95 t/ha/yr was
considerably higher than the best yields achieved during implementation.
(b)   Eel. Eel yields have fluctuated throughout project implementation largely
due to market forces. The yields peaked in 1991 at 851 t (73 t/ha) but
dropped to 377 t (28 t/ha) in 1993.  This drop in production was
supplemented in part by the rearing and sale of elvers rising from 6.5
million in 1991 to 26.32 million in 1993 resulting in the reported conversion
of estimated financial losses of Y2 million in 1991 to a profit of Y32 million
in 1993. The SAR projections were 100 t/ha/yr for the enclosed ponds
developed by the component.
(c)   Laver. Production generally increased throughout project implementation
from about 2,700 t (14 t/ha) in 1989 to 10,500 t (10 t/ha) in 1993 as
compared to the SAR estimate of 15 t/ha/yr.
5.          Mariculture Issues:
(a)   Shrimp.  The viability of shrimp culture in the project area has been
seriously threatened as a result of high mortality early in the production
cycle. In 1993 and 1994, shrimp mortalities were first observed in June with
a majority of shrimp ponds affected by the end of August. The specific
causal factors have yet to be identified. At present, efforts are underway
to remedy the economic calamity, including (a) research on the identification
and prevention of shrimp disease, (b) reduction in shrimp stocking densities
and production targets, (c) polyculture of shrimp with crabs, finfish, and
clams, and (d) diversification of affected farmers' employment options such
as a switch to salt production.  The research effort appears to be
insufficiently funded at present and will require a more comprehensive and
coordinated approach with other provinces and possibly international
collaboration.  The solution may require several years of systematic
analytical work. Reduction in shrimp seed stocking densities, feed rates,
and per unit area production targets has shown significant improvement in
survival rates in the project area to date. The polyculture of marine species
has been shown to be technically feasible and economically viable on a
small scale; however, definite concerns remain over the strength of the
market for the promising species and feasibility of widespread application
of the technology. Similarly, there is a limit to the alternate employment
options for affected farmers due to the constraints of the natural setting of
shrimp farms. The current shortage of operating capital will lead to
deterioration in the condition of shrimp ponds due to neglect of required
annual pond maintenance.
(b)   Eel. The decline in total and average unit output appears to be due to weak
financial performance of market eel production in the project area which has
led to a shift to elver production in the latter years of project development.



- 40 -                        Appndix A
This shift had dramatically improved profitability of eel farming.
Nevertheless, the profit margin of elver and market eel production has been
narrowing due to the rapidly escalating cost of wild caught seed (glass) eels
in recent years. The price of glass eels has increased by about 11 fold (from
about 30% to 60% of production costs) between 1988 and 1994 whereas the
price for market eel has only increased 3.5 times, and the profit margin of
producing elvers from glass eels has declined by about half over the same
time period. If this trend continues, the financial viability of eel and elver
farming may be seriously threatened in the project area. This is largely due
to the lower production costs of market-size eels in southern provinces,
particularly Guangdong.
(c)   Laver. Increasing market demand and higher unit prices for laver has
resulted in a rapid expansion of the cultivated area and intensity of
production. Concurrently, in some of the more developed areas, per unit
area yields have declined, possibly due to insufficient nutrients for optimal
growth and health of the plants.  In comparison to laver culture in
Lianyungang, where a production problem has not occurred, 2700 m2 of
culture net is used per ha, whereas in Nantong, 3750 m2 of culture net is
used per ha. Also in Nantong, where up to 60% mortality in some areas
has occurred, the number of laver processing sets have increased from 3 to
63 (21 times) while the production area has only increased from 200 ha to
2000 ha (10 times) which could in part be the reason for the increased
density. The problem of too high production density has been recognized
by the provincial and municipal PMOs. In response, project authorities are
developing policy guidelines to control production density, introducing
superior species, and applying improved production technologies. It is also
significant to note that a specific viral or bacterial disease has not been
identified among the poor growing laver.
Agroprocessing
6.          Agroprocessing (in support of the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors):
At appraisal, the following subprojects were envisaged:
Animal Husbandry:
Goats - establishment of a slaughterhouse at Dafeng and expansion and
improvement of existing tannery (Dongtai);
Ducks - establishment of a slaughter and down processing plant at Sheyang,
improvement of a meat canning factory in Yancheng, and improvement of a down
factory in Yancheng;
Rabbits - expansion of a fur factory at Dafeng;
Other - one feed mill expansion at Xiangshui and one feedmill establishment at
Sheyang for livestock feed and one feedmill establishment for mink at Dongtai.



-41-                         Ap2n&A
Agriculture:
Grapes - construction of a juice plant at Donghai;
Hawthorn - construction of a hawthorn processing plant in Ganyu County.
7.          All subprojects except for the goat slaughterhouse (Dafeng) and mink
feedmill (Dongtai) were implemented; all the implemented subprojects are in operation
except the duck slaughter plant at Sheyang. While the rabbit fur factory at Dafeng and the
meat canning factory are in operation, neither appear to be utilizing the equipment
procured under the project. The mission visited all the implemented subprojects except the
Xiangshui feedmill. In each case, the civil works were well executed and the equipment
appeared to be as planned and to have been well installed.
8.         In discussing possible solutions to bring about utilization of assets at the
inoperative Sheyang duck slaughter plant and the Dafeng fur factory (which is not using
the project equipment), enterprise managers expressed hope that the local governments
would establish production bases for ducks and mink or to facilitate import of high value
animal skins to support the processing activities. In the mission's view, it would be
inappropriate for government to intervene with a centrally-planned solution without
carefully examining the market conditions and alternative strategies for recovery.
9.          Agriculture technology: At appraisal, the following subprojects were
envisaged:
two shrimp feed mills and a mink feed mill
rapeseed processing
sesbania planting and expansion of a gum powder plant
improved barley production and construction of malt plant
improved asparagus varieties and construction of processing plant
production of serology test kits
The shrimp feed mills became ordinary feedmills; the mink feed mill, rapeseed processing
and serology test kit subprojects were dropped. The mission visited the barley malt and
the asparagus processing plants, both of which appear to be successfully operating and
generating revenues for their sponsors.
10.        In general, enterprises have succeeded which have been able to adopt to their
changing market and raw material supply circumstances. This adaptability has been not
only a function of the perceptions and analytical skills of enterprise managers, but also the
autonomy and resources that managers have been afforded to act on their analysis.
Enterprises which are having difficulty will, without exception, need to be given this
combination of market orientation and autonomous management if they are to recover or
move successfully into a different line of activity that makes effective use of the assets they
possess.
11.         Agriculture and Animal Husbandry components: The mission did not visit
the agriculture subprojects and still awaits data on the implementation of the gingko



- 42 -                       Apendix A
subprojects in Xuzhou. Likewise, due to time constraints, the mission visited only one
rabbit Al station, one specialized household, and a goat marketing station in Dongtai. Cost
and production tables will be reviewed at headquarters.
Zhejiang
12.         The project as appraised comprised new shrimp ponds at five sites (Damutu,
Kaomen, Dingshan, Shepan and Wumen) and an eel component. In contrast to Jiangsu,
the Zhejiang shrimp sites required considerable reclamation works including construction
of new seadikes and upgrading of existing dikes. In 1989, after a devastating typhoon, one
subproject (Dingshan) dropped out of the project; at the same time, the eel market was
determined to be unreliable and the eel component was reduced. Funds originally intended
for these purposes were reallocated to two new subprojects which featured upgrading of
existing shrimp ponds (Zhoushan and Dongtou); this was seen as a measure to earn quick
economic returns to compensate for the lengthy construction period associated with seadike
construction. A further adjustment was made to provide for reservoir cultivation of eels
in net cages. The total investment was Y231.7 million--10% over the appraisal estimate
of base cost plus physical contingencies or 97% of the appraisal estimate of total cost with
both physical and price contingencies. Investments in shrimp ponds were 85 % of the total,
with eel 15%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 61% for shrimp and 39% for eel.
13.         Project works were essentially completed on all the subprojects except
Zhoushan where only 358.3 ha has been completed out of the 1252.8 ha anticipated.
While this indicates about 25% completion, this figure is somewhat misleading in that it
represents the area completed to project standards. Work is in various stages at the
remaining sites, and while the Zhoushan govemment had indicated earlier (June 1994) that
the remaining work would be completed with domestic financing in the winter construction
seasons of 1994 and 1995, it now proposes to delay further work until 1995 and 1996, and
estimates that about Y8 million will be required for this purpose.
14.         Production and issues: Zhejiang has also suffered production losses due
to shrimp disease and issues mentioned above are applicable to this component of the
project.
Jiangsu and Zhejiang
15.         Project management: Project offices were established at the provincial,
municipal and county levels as envisaged in the SAR. In Jiangsu, the provincial PMO
intends to propose to the provincial government that the office be maintained with the
following functions: monitor production, carrying out market studies to help borrowers,
coordinating training, and helping to insure repayment; they are recommending that the
city and county project offices be maintained. In Zhejiang, the provincial PMO will be
incorporated into the provincial Bureau of Aquatic Products (BAP), and the BAP will
assume responsibility for trying to bring the project up to its production potential.



- 43 -                        Appendix A
16.         Development Corporations (DCs): It was originally intended that DCs
would have a major function in implementation of the project and also act as financial
intermediaries.  This was seen as a means of separating government's normal
administrative and regulatory functions from developmental and commercial activities.
During implementation, at MOF's directive, the onlending function of these entities was
assigned to the respective bureaus of finance in both provinces. In Jiangsu, it was reported
that a government directive called for abolishing the DCs, though the Lianyungang DC
continues to exist and has been responsible for the spread of laver cultivation in the city--
the line of separation between the Lianyungang DC and the Lianyungang BAP is not clear.
In Zhejiang, DCs are responsible for project implementation in six of the subprojects (eel
production, Damutu, Dongtou,Shepan, Wumen and Kaomen) and in most cases are the
end-users of the Bank loan.
17.         Onlending rates: Bank funds were passed from the MOF to the provincial
governments at an interest rate of 4.5% with repayment over 15 years, including a five
year grace period. A covenant called for end-users to pay the same interest rate charged
by ABC for similar projects. The Jiangsu Bureau of Finance (BOF) onlends to the cities
at a fixed rate of 5.2%, the cities to the counties at 6.2% and the counties to end-users at
7.2%; the repayment period is the same as extended by MOF. The Zhejiang BOF onlends
to the city, county or provincial bureau (BAP and Water Conservancy) at a fixed rate of
4.5%; from this point, the interest rate ranges from 5% (from Sanmen County to the DC)
to 8.64% (from Dongtou County to participating township governments). The DCs are,
in most cases, the end users; farmers pay contract fees for the use of ponds to the farm,
which in turn hands these fees over to the DC.
18.         Repayment: Jiangsu, estimating that about 40% of the project investment
is not producing benefits, reported that it had asked MOF to postpone repayment. Within
the province, the BOF has encouraged early repayment and the PMO reported that
Nantong had already repaid 30% of the Bank loan/credit with proceeds from the 20% of
beneficiaries who have already completely repaid their loans. Zhejiang, on the other hand,
is about $2.77 million in arrears in its principal payments to MOF, having not paid in
either 1993 or 1994.
19.         Sustainability:  The sustainability of the major component--shrimp
production--is clearly dependent on finding a solution to the shrimp disease problem.
While both provinces are making efforts in this direction, the major constraint is lack of
funds for carrying out research. While the transition to a market economy is by no means
complete, it has had a profound impact on project implementation and operation --with
diminishing government direction on individual producers and managers, shortage of
working capital, and market choices in the hands of producers instead of government
agencies.
Beijing
November 10, 1994



- 44 -                                  Apendix A
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs and Quantities - SAR Estimate and Actual
SAR Estimate        -                         Actual
Subproject                   Unit    Quantity      Invest.*       Qtuntity   % of SAR    Invest.        of SAR
-Y min-                                       (Y mh3
JIANGSU
Shrimp:
New ponds                    ha       3,958                       2,095       53%
Improved ponds               ha       4,303                       4,634      108%
Feedmills                    no          12                                    0%
Cold stores                  no          14                          12       86%
Hatcheries                   m 2      9,500                      12,544      132%
Subtotal                                       320.79                                 224.86        70%
Eel:
Enclosed                     M2      87,000                     136,000      156%
Open                         ha        32.7                           0        0%
Feedmill                     no           1                           1      100%
Subtotal                                       6427                                    76.10       118%
Laver:
Culture frames               ha         273                       1,107      405%
Hatchery                     m2       3,600                       9,100      253%
Subtotal                                       16.041                                  75-50       471%
Total Aauaculture                          401101                                  376.46        94%
ZHEJIANG
Shrimp:
New ponds                    ha       1,382                     1,264.8       92%
Improved ponds               ha           0                       464.6
Feedmills                    no           4                           4      100%
Cold stores                  no           5                           4       80%
Hatcheries                   m2       3,200                       2,960       93%
Technical Service            no           1                           1
Subtotal                                       128.                                   197.23       153%
Eel:
Warm water                   ha          42                         2.8        7%
Enclosed                     ha           2
Open                         ha          89                        39.4       44%
Net cages                    ha                                     0.3
Feedmill                     no           1                           1      100%
Roast eel plant              no           1                           0        0%
Carton factory               no           1                           1      100%
Eel transfer stn             no           1                           1      100%
Subtotal                                        83444                                               42%
Total Aauaculture                           21157                                  23167        110%
* Jiangsu - Base cost plus physical contingencies from SAR Annex 3, Table 6, 7 and 8
* Zhejiang - Base cost plus physical contingencies from SAR Annex 3, Tabls 14 - 20



- 45 -                            Appendix B
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CR. 1887-CHA/LN. 2924-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I. Comments From Zhejiang Project Management Office
On the Draft ICR
1.       We are very glad to receive ICR (draft) from the World Bank mission. The ICR has
very clearly reflected the real situations of the project implementation in Zhejiang province. We
agree with the ICR. There are two points mentioned as follows for the mission's consideration.
2.        On Annex 5 (p. 27), one carton factory was cancelled at the time of adjustment and
actually was never put into construction.
3.        The financial and economic returns of the project cannot be reliably assessed because
the break out of shrimp disease and the escalating price of eel fry severely curtained the
exploration of the project potential economic benefits. Some efforts have been made to
rehabilitate shrimp and eel production, present shrimp disease, adopt suitable stocking density
and polyculture system, stipulate pond maintenance, response to market conditions and adjust
aquaculture structure. These efforts have already resulted in good economic benefits. The
current preferential policy for agriculture and aquaculture, favorable domestic and world market
conditions and a long operation duration period have created a very good condition for the full
exploration of the potential economic benefit of the project. It is likely to recover shrimp output
to 1000 kg/ha. We have confidence in the project future and the project is successful.
11. Summary on Coastal Lands Development Project in Zhejiang Province
Project Implementation
4.        The primary objective of the project was to develop coastal lands for aquaculture.
With the rapid development of market economy, the requirement for lands is increasing. It is a
long-term strategy for Zhejiang province which has less lands with more population to utilize
abundant coastal lands for diversification and aquaculture.
5.        The project was assisted by the World Bank. For the project, a loan in amount of
$12.4 million and SDR13.6 million was effective on September 12, 1988. The loan was used to
help reclamation of lands, construction of 1,380 ha. of shrimp ponds, 133 ha. of eel ponds and
related support facilities. The project costs Yuan 239.29 million and lasted 5 years. During the
period of implementation some parts of constructing sea dike were substantially damaged by No.
23 typhoon in 1989: unreliable wild eel fry resources and rapid escalating price of eel fry
impacted the financial viability of eel production. In views of the above-mentioned, following
adjustments were reported to the World Bank for approval: shifting Dingshan subproject which
was severely damaged by the typhoon and some parts of eel ponds construction to the
improvement of existing shrimp ponds in Zhoushan and the construction of new shrimp ponds in



- 46 -                           Appendix B
Dongtou. The adjustment was confirmed by the World Bank, which made the project
component structure more reasonable. The adjustment was proved to be successful.
6.       The development corporations were established according to the appraisal
projections. The development corporation played a positive role in both implementation and
arrangement activities. However, it was premature for these development corporations to
function as financial institutions for handling onlending activities. In order to guarantee the
repayment, onlending through financial bureaus at different levels was more reliable and
realizable. The development corporations became the end-users of the project funds, which
separated government's administration from development corporations' developmental and
commercial activities, broke the tradition of government grants for development and brought
corporations into commercial arena. The experience was a very effective way to strengthen
end-users' sense of responsibility.
7.       The project implementation substantially progressed based on the appraisal estimate.
In views of physical objectives, most of them were achieved. Although severe typhoon and
technical complexity of soft-foundation treatment affected the construction, the construction
quality was good and acceptable by the monitoring group. All completed facilities are going
well after being put into operation.
8.       We adhered to the ICB and LCB bidding procedures for procurement and introduced
competition system. The system guaranteed the procured goods and construction with good
quality and performance, reasonable price and lower project cost. The actual amount was
$9,310,500.00.
9.       The project cost was Y 231,670,000 or 97% of the appraisal estimate of Y
239.290,000. (Zhoushan subproject needs Y 8 million for the unfulfilled works). Total World
Bank loan disbursed was SDR 13,600,000 and $9,162,332.12 (27,247,446.9 USD equivalent).
The balance of $3,237,666.88 was cancelled. Due to recovery of typhoon-damaged seadike and
partial adjustment, the construction of shrimp ponds and related support facilities delayed, which
also delayed annual investment.
Work Performance
10.      The project implementation largely depended on the organizations and work
efficiency. The organizations were established based on the appraisal projection. The project
offices at different levels of province, municipality and county were staffed with competent
personnel. There was clear responsibility between the coordinating group, project offices and
related administrations. The organization operation was normal and effective.
11.      The project management needed more technical and coordinating skills. A
management operation guideline for the project identification, appraisal, procurement, financial
affairs, quality control review and training was worked out based on the World Bank projection
and local conditions. The guideline was adopted by project offices at different levels. As a
result, the project investment was effectively controlled, progress promoted and quality
guaranteed.



- 47 -                            Appendix B
12.      Experts were invited to review and choose the designs of some complicated
engineerings before construction. It was effective to optimize the design, save the cost, speed
up the progress and avoid some contingency losses. During the construction, sustained quality
control for the important engineering was carried out by entrusted quality control unit. A
system of reviewing cost estimate before bidding and final account at acceptance was adopted.
The practice was proved to be very effective to ensure quality, fair bidding, and lower cost.
13.      Because of technically complicated reclamation at the early stage of the project,
more attention was put on the construction management at the cost of neglecting production
management and aquaculture technology, which resulted int he shortage of production,
management and technology and affected the economic returns when the project was put into
operation.
14.      We were satisfactory and thankful to the World Bank staffs and experts for their
excellent work performance during appraisal and implementation. Their responsible attitude,
rigorous motivation and high efficiency are worthy our following. The project implementation
did help our project staffs improve their management and technical skills. A number of
competent staffs were built up through the project.
15.      Based on friendly and learning attitude, a good cooperation relationship between the
World Bank mission and us was established during the project implementation. In one side, we
strictly adhered to the agreements and procedures; on the other side, the World Bank mission
understood and help us to solve some difficulties. We really appreciated the pleasant
cooperation.
Outcome and Benefits
16.      In views of physical construction, most of project objectives were achieved. The
quality was good and cost was slightly lower compared to the appraisal estimate. There were
no significant delays. The completed facilities have been put into operation and are going well.
The project exploited 1,666 ha. of lands, constructed 1,264.8 ha. of shrimp ponds, 50 ha. of eel
ponds and related support facilities such as cold storage, hatcheries and feedmill, and
rehabilitate 464.6 ha. of shrimp ponds (894 ha. of shrimp ponds were partially improved). The
physical construction was successful.
17.      In terms of economic return currently there are still some problems, the production
objectives were far behind that in the appraisal estimate and economic returns did not reach the
estimate. Eel: Due to the impact of rapid escalating price of eel fry, a bigger risk and the
narrow margin of profit, it was difficult to borrow sufficient working capital. Eel farmer's
motivation was affected. At present, some eel ponds still leave to standstill. The economic
potentiality of eel component has not been exploited. Shrimp: The economic return of shrimp
culture from shrimp ponds under operation before 1992 was high. During the past two years
from 1993, however, the outbreak of shrimp disease substantially decreased the shrimp output,
severely impacted the financial viability of shrimp culture and entire vertically integrated
industry.



- 48 -                            Appendix B
Key Lessons Learned
18.      A great attention of governments at different levels and establishment of powerful
project coordinating group are the basic guarantee to implement project, and the establishment
of project offices employed with industrious, competent staffs is an institutional guarantee to
execute project smoothly.
19.      The project implementation period was the period of government's deepening its
reform. The project was designed in the context of a planned economy and was implemented
under market economy. The shift from the traditional planned economy to the market economy
brought in many new unexpected difficulties and problems. The borrowers did not fully prepare
the changes and their motivation was thus affected.
20.      The project management was a kind of job that needed its occupant have a good
knowledge of policy and technology. Whether the project implementation was successful or not
was largely dependent on the management. The diversification and geographic spread of project
sites were not convenient to the normal project management and increased the difficulties. It
was better not to spread project sites geographically.
21.      The project implementation usually lasts for several years, particularly for
agricultural projects which are likely affected by many uncertain natural factors. A greater
attention, therefore, should be paid on the natural risks to ensure smooth implementation.
22.      The project has been completed, which has paved a good foundation for potential
production. The production period in the project area has been only for 2-3 years, the likely
economic outcome of the project during its duration can not be reliably assessed, which largely
depends on our efforts. During the future production period, the production management
become more and more important and a great effort should be made to adjust shrimp and eel
culture. We should do our best to continue to prevent shrimp disease, strengthen the
maintenance of shrimp and eel ponds, elongate pond duration, adjust suitable stocking density,
adopt polyculture and diversification, improve culture technology and respond to market. We
also hope to get help from the World Bank.
Borrower Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
m. Comments from Jiangsu Project Management Office on the Draft ICR
23.      In general, Jiangsu Coastal Lands Development Project is successful. It has largely
developed about 700,000 ha of coastal lands in Jiangsu Province for Fishery, Animal
Husbandry, Forestry and Fruits. For over six years, with tremendous efforts of the provincial
government, the World Bank project management and the people in the developing area, the
project has achieved remarkable economic, social and ecological benefits. In the past 40 years,
Jiangsu provincial govemment established many organizations for coastal lands, developing
research, experiment and demonstration, and has accumulated a wealth of experiences and
technological data. With the loans of the World Bank, the Jiangsu Coastal Lands development
has been able to be carried out in much larger scale. The World Bank's treasurable experiences



- 49 -                            Appendix B
in investment management is of great help to the development project. The success of the
project not only led to a good economic benefit on the coastal lands, but also an encouraging
and heartening influence to other areas.
24.       The Draft ICR soundly sums up the achievements and experiences of the project,
also points out the lessons learnt as well as the problems to be further studied. Jiangsu
provincial government has decided to continue developing the coastal lands in larger scope. So
it is no doubt that the experiences and lessons resulted from the World Bank project will be very
useful in future.
25.       During implementation of the project, the World Bank and China project
management made several readjustments on the original plan in response to the actual situation
of each subproject. This flexibility was necessary and had ensured the success of each
subproject. For example, because of the change of the world market and the China economy
(from plan-market to market-economy), Yancheng mink, cannery factory, and goat cold store
subprojects had to be ceased). As those changes were not predictable at the beginning, so some
realistic adjustments were necessary and important in fulfilling the project. Flexible
readjustment is one of the important experiences of this project.
26.       The Draft ICR indicates that a major readjustment should be made for the Shrimp
Culture subproject so that to extricate the Shrimp Farming from the current strait. We fully
agree to this point. The big flood calamity in 1991 and the serious outbreak of shrimp disease
in 1993/94 have made the shrimp culture into a very difficult position. For the flood, it was
Force Majeure and could not be predicted. It rarely happened in the past 20 years. For shrimp
disease, since 1993, Chinese government has organized to seek solution against the shrimp
disease. And we had used the mixed culture of shrimp, shellfish, fish and clam to prevent the
problem, though the real effective method is not found yet. Nevertheless, we still believe that
with out constant efforts, the shrimp disease will be overcome eventually and the future of
China shrimp culture is bright. Coastal Lands Fishery is a systematic project, we are maling
more and more efforts to set up a long-term and efficient fishery system for a harmonious
combination of economic, social and ecological benefit.
27.       We feel sorry with the para. 21 of the ICR. As indicated by the ICR in many
paragraphs, the implementation of Animal Husbandry subprojects are satisfactory with even
extra production output and remarkable benefit. However, the World Bank cancelled the one
year extension of the closing date without sufficient reasons. Because the Bank insisted on the
original closing date, we were not able to use the USD4,374,321.00 (6.5 percent of total cost).
This action led to a big loss to Dongtai, Ganyu Juice Plants and Lianyungang Laver processing
subprojects. At that time we had already finished all work international biddings for purchase
of juice equipment, laver processing machines and excavators.
28.       On the para. 31 of the ICR, there is a worry about the profitability of Eel Farming
because of the rising cost of seed (glass) eels. We do not think it is necessary to worry about
that. The fact is that we have introduced European seed eels since 1994, and successfully
cultured them. The price of European glass eels is only 5 percent of that of Chinese eels. The
prices of seed eels in 1995 are going down. So there should be no problem with the resource of



- 50 -                            Appendix B
seed eels in China. Considering the above situation, we feel that China eel farming is promising
and the profitability is getting better than ever.
29.       On Part "G" (para. 50) of the ICR, our opinion would be: Eel farming subproject
has been satisfactory and has a brilliant future. Shrimp subproject is meeting a temporary
difficulty (shrimp disease). Chinese government and the concerned farmers are taking steps to
solve it by adopting new technology, using new shrimp breeds. Therefore the future of the
shrimp farming is also promising.
30.       We would make three corrections on the ICR as below:
(a)   On para. 29, bottom line, it says, "In fact, management standards in China's shrimp
farm are fairly high by international standards...." But on para. 30, top line, it says
that "....Shrimp Farming in China-as in most other countries-is primitive, depend
upon the capture of wild animals, unsophisticated breeding practice....". These two
assessment are obviously contradictory.
As a matter of fact, our shrimp breeding is carried out indoor over winter season instead of
dependent upon capture of wild animals.
(b)   In Box 1, last three lines:
The fact is that, China laver not only exports to Japan, and not only transferred by Hong-Kong
based companies.
(c)   Para. 19 of ICR, line 8, it says, ".... Yancheng meat canning was never put into
operation....".
The reason for that is because this subprojects stopped according to the Bank's instruction right
after the construction being finished.
31.       Page. 22 Summary of Assessments. Part "E"-Assessment of Outcome, it gives
"Deficient", while our opinion is "Satisfactory", the same of assessment on "the Bank
Performance".
IV. Summary on Coastal Lands Development Project
in Jiangsu Province
(Abstract) La
Project hnplementation
32.      Implementation Timetable. The People's Republic of China signed the Loans
Agreement with the IDA on September 16, 1988. Then Jiangsu Provincial Government signed
the Agreement of Transferring Loans with four cities of Nantong, Yancheng, Lianyungang and
Xuzhou on August 1st, 1989. The coastal lands development project was actually carried out



- 51 -                           Appendix B
starting from July 1st, 1987. By the end of 1991 the aquatic products, animal husbandry, fruits,
dried fruits and all the processing facilities have been completed within three years, ahead of the
schedule, except the Fruit-juice plants of Dongtai and Ganyu counties and the cold store of
Jiangsu Provincial Fishery Company.
33.      Quality of the Project Work. After the completion of the project, the governments
of provincial, municipal and county levels organized some specialists to accept the project. The
results showed that all the subprojects had reached the project standard and quality requirements
stipulated in the appraisal report.
34.      Goods Purchase for the Project. All the goods purchasing were through ICB. The
CMC is the international trade agent, the domestic purchases are through Jiangsu Provincial
Bureau of Complete Set of Equipment ICB.
35.      Implementation of Technical Training
(a)   Local Training. Since implementing this project 15 training classes have been held
in which 2,500 members of technical and operational staff trained, and short time
trainings and training in rotation for 15,000 project management staff and specialized
families have been held.
(b)   Overseas Investigation and Training. Totally four delegations were sent to the
United States of America, Canada, France, Spain, Japan, Thailand and Hong-Kong
for investigation and training in Marketing knowledge and aquatic technology. Also
one group of consultant specialists from the U.S. and Canada were invited to China
to give lectures, more than 98 personnels of management were trained.
Utilization of Project Funds
36.      By the end of 1993, the investment totalled RMB 567,000,000. Yuan in which the
loan from the World Bank is USD62,523,000.
37.      The special account for coastal lands project was closed on June 30th, 1993. A total
of USD67,371,224.29 was drawn from the World Bank. With the deduction of
USD4,847,760.13 taken back by the World Bank. So a total of USD62,523,464.16 has been
actually used, accounting for 83.50 percent of the total loan of USD69,000,000.00 in the project
agreement. That of USD6,476,535.84 has not been used, including the soft credit of
USD30,400,000, which is equivalent to USD39,297,785. We lost USD2,102,214.70 because of
the fluctuation between SDR and USD exchange rate. The loan comes to USD27,600,000. A
total of USD4,374,321.14 has been cancelled because of the adjustment in the middle and later
stage of the project.
38.      Among the loans of the World Bank actually used, the special part undertaken by the
World Bank by ICB is USD13,470,280.30. A total of USD6,322,171.15 has been made up
through special account in the purchase quota of ICB. A total of USD2,951,365.11 has been
made up through the special account by ICB. The cumulative amount of purchase through



- 52 -                                     Appendix B
tender has reached USD22,743,816.60. The sum of local expenses comes to
USD39,779,647.56.
39.         Totally USD62,567,990.21 had been transferred to the lower levels by the end of
1993. There was USD44,526.05 exceeded which came from the interest incomes. The rate of
the loan transfer in overseas training cost is 100 percent.
Results and Benefits of the Project
40.         Characteristics of the Project
(a)    Jiangsu Province has several million mu of coastal lands shallow water areas. For
many years, we had been intending to make use of them. The World Bank Project
has successfully developed 100,000 mu of prawn pools, 136,000 square meters of
eel greenhouses, 15,000 mu of layer bred in shallow water. Now besides the
project, we have developed another 160,000 mu of prawn pools, 500,000 sq. meters
of eels pools, 80,000 mu of laver farmland and 100 sets laver processing equipment.
(b)    A large scale comprehensive system  of production, service and marketing has been
set up. A base of fisher, shrimp, scallop, aquatic plants with multi-functions has
been established. The prawn pools have been built up with high quality feedmills
equipped with cars and machines. The establishment of technical training center
enables the production of shrimp, fish, scallop and aquatic plants become a whole
system in the project.
41.         After the project being put into production, the output increased in successive years.
------------------------------ (Units/tons)----------------------------
1988      1989       1990       1991        1992        1993        Total
a.  Prawn output        2,143.79  3,440.49  4,156.45   7,642.93   9,174.21    3,171.82  29,729.63
b.  Eel output            260.82    336.88    401.19      851.49      530.32       377.20   2,757.90
c.  Laver output            -     2,702.00  4,063.55   3,768.84   5,656.65   10,574.30  26,724.79
Total            2,404.61  6,479.37  8,620.64  12,263.26  15,361.18   14,123.32  59.252.89
42.         Economic Benefit of the Project
After the project in operation, laver, eel, animal husbandry and forestry/fruits had a
good benefit. But the shrimp subproject suffered big loss in 1993/1994 except the good harvest in
1992:
---------------------(Unit Y10,000 RMB)-------------------------------
1988      1989       1990       1991        1992        1993        Total
a.  Prawn output        3,300.45  4,808.59  6,759.41  12,558.18  21,494.50    5,874.84  54,795.97
Benefit              550.10 -1,125.63 -1,557.28       960.80   4,374.41   -2,244.34       958.06
b.  Eels output         2,087.44  5,129.68  2,109.32   4,494.18   7,700.82   26,430.78  47,952.22
Benefit              407.65    142.27   -571.63    -204.28       759.89      3207.85    3740.84
c.  Laver output                   1441.17   2347.75    3003.29    4184.89    11802.79   22826.89
Benefit                         546.12    680.93      440.63     521.21      2672.65    4861.54



- 53 -                                Appendix B
d.  Animal husbandry
output         1,034.77 2,333.35 3,553.50  10,101.00 19,149.60  26,789.00 62,961.22
Benefit            201.74   512.03   799.89  2,094.25  3,759.22   3,690.62  11,057.35
e.  Forestry/Fruits
output                                                                    15,000.00
Benefit                                                                      2,005.10
f.  Technology output   995.30 1,123.61  1,675.76  1,768.34  1,976.60   2,256.70  9,796.31
Benefit            20.49    -5.6   -229.23      31.89    -66.10       27.28   -221.00
g.  Total Province output                                                      213,332.61
Benefit                                                                     22,407.89
43.         The effect of the Projects to the Development to the Rural Economy. The project has
provided 30,000 employment chances in the coastal area. The average income per capita of the
peasants in prawn and laver farming has reached 1,500 yuan annually, which is two times the income
before the project. The number of animal husbandry households is 3,500 yuan.
44.         Prediction. The life time of the project can last 15 years. Two or three years ago the
project was put into operation. We are optimistic about the future in its life time. The reasons are:
(a)    The market prices of the project products are tuming up.
(b)    The national micro-adjusting policy is getting favorable for agriculture and aquatic
production industry.
(c)    Optimistic technological risks. After the project being put into effect, we have paid full
attention to technological problems. For instances, the standard of prawn pools mostly
have been reached or ever exceeded that planned. The unit area yield of two thirds
prawn pools have exceeded 125 kg, etc.
(d)   The development of product processing is helpful to improve the economic profit of the
project.
Achievement of the World Bank
45.         The World Bank's methods for preparation appraisal, implementation and supervision of
the project are feasible and effective, which have promoted the smooth implementation of the project.
Experiences and Lessons
46.         The Major Experiences
(a)    We have successfully made full use of the World Bank loans, and promoted the aquatic
production in coastal lands, the animal husbandry, the production of the forestry and
fruits, developed the processing industry of agricultural products.
(b)    We have made full use of the limited national lands to bring benefit to the people.



- 54 -                            Appendix B
(c)   The advanced foreign processing machinery and equipment have been successfully
introduced. Also the advanced management and technology have been introduced and
used.
47.        Lessons
Because of the unexpected difficulties, some subprojects have been forced to be ceased on middle
way, which resulted in slow progress of the implementation of the project and some economic losses
in certain degrees.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20260
17                         2i                          I'                           1230                         121'                        12                          123'
SHANDONG
Soy  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
f Fengoon    Ps Oar                                          J              /           L;-n9-g                                                                C  H  I N  A
r - Lou01to 9                               COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-  o        n            ghol 0           -<15           i                          JIANGSU PROVINCE
'pexvv   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*sPr-pevis
__g ) ) / Pei Xi.n ( , __ 7 la                                                                                        *      Shrimp Po-d
Eel Po-ds
HENAN   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h,.                                              ".                  0L.-e Prodootior
34    A N                                                                                                                                                                    PurFit9 Prodoction
-3e                                                                         2* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* A-,o, H.sb-ndr3
L-[F Fnnm.                O       23 N2Sioval Roods
~~~~~~~~~I v'    '                  0L,vrdro                                                                          S\ vodoy 9  qRoads
9L-9 --- yJ  O     .'Sherv-g                                                                        or,Ir..dS
|  S,ho.g                                                                                                      C. <Pl \g heng   24  t    CounCy Rourrdaries
ANHUI                                                       /.  DW..g                                                                          -       Pr-mce. B-docvriss
t   {   ,.   \   >             I '           .                                      'Sj/. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ol  arn_, vapoor Vl AOev/
33.
32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
{>__sj   V   Gooyrs   .           >_>                io~~~~~Rvdrg  ~1
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
o      25   s0         75      00                                                       Org              ? a   ,r gE L    t        oIv
-32'              KILOrEpERO e/ t  Ocsn                                                      _2       t1                                                         3    35                                                 32
0   ~ ~  ~ ~ 0             SRorrv        -  verA
117'                       a      __       [    J9lon9l        > i         W    J;ongyinS ohOzhou   \<    a              Ohd.qg 
|        o.oroI,   /         ,' v                                                                                                 Chvoir  /    n       9  
SenOra022                                           )-  Og<s                                                     QOg 
:'!I4.G                                                                                               'M11vrg;&     SHANGHAI SHI-  -
0 31 32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                 ~3 31E/H    _ 3 -1
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N _.? _ ,IANHU      ~
;   2    S~~~~~   ^-   ^2NG  XONG. U ^ X \ d , _ .. > > _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jk              ji-32
tAo   7DB h O .   C2r 2          r5 rl u r p boT                                                             s,. ,.                              '
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6~~~~~~~~~OTBR18






IBRD 20261
hr     IrS                            Ire                           ~~~~        ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120    -  121  22                            12'3
'8JIANGSU-(
C H I N A                                                                                                                              AI SHI
COASTAL LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                    E[
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Projedts::                                                                  .(_    -                             ,Sng
*      Shrimp Ponds                                                           A.qir ci     /                            -g AIYAN         HANGZHOU
0   E.] P-d, ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9*1 ~Homing   tHoly-nViA
---  N.tiOOO1 Roads                                                                       XIAS
Secondary Rood,                                                k                             0 AQIAOSI                                                  d- -KAOMEN
'' il *' . .d:-- ',                                                                                    NIG WI                            ZHENHA/ 
--  Ri-n,r                                                                                                    BAWUQIU                       BI /NHrt/ I - 
  Airport. ,
-   Coraty Ro-doriesFYA 
Prefect-re Bo,ndories                                                                                YUICHE
Province Boundorles
/~t=  US Ohun              J 0                             Ses l-ng <-                F -ngb.._   f
_2  >   J   \   ;J C   Yi_uO  _   \  \ ,!   t  XNingh9 )   % rl  t DAMUTU             EAS, CHINA
29,~~~~~~~~~  QUZHOU W"z   lhc-<._a_  
X,5 <                        k            ,{ g SWWS S   ;SHEPNH 2- \
SEA
JIANGXI                 'VrJzhe t   /                   nJ            </ yfflO /                                              AO
t  v  Suichon9 _ , t) - Fh/ont!T J~~~L7  IAOJING
OK.                                                                         r                                    0 /  n  Yiflua  r k  r_                         _    _     _    _
SCCOAZosWO  E.       -28-.                                                                        O                                                                                                 KILOMETERS5
olS                                                  9g o                                                                      EN
C H I N                                                                                                                              IA IWG'\Q   / }4 {   'X1 DINGSHAN
- _ ANFUJIAN
S _/rr _rru*        olscon par,                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
_ AO Zr;i                         nrs                                                                                                                                                  122                             123'
OCTOBER 1987









IMAG IN G
d e pro- r t  N o:i;      1 4 5 4 9
Tyj_'e- :   f-



