Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2924 CHA
(Coastal Lands Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 16, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2924 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September  16,  1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association) 
of even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty-four million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 44,000,000) (the Credit);
(C)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this 
Agreement are made;
Page  2
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Jiangsu Province and Zhejiang Province 
(the Provinces) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to the Provinces the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement and the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank, and the Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General 
Conditions applicable thereto have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
term "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied 
to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  3
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 2.02 (b) 
2.02 (c), 3.01 and 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 
4 thereto, are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications in 
said Sections (except for Section 3.01 (b) and
3.01 (c)) and Schedule 2:
(i)
the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
 
(ii)
the terms "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be read as "Loan" 
and "Loan Account", 
respectively; and
 
(iii)
the term "this Agreement" or "the Development Credit Agreement" 
shall be read as 
"the Loan Agreement".
 
(b)
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified 
otherwise by the Bank:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association 
pursuant to any of 
the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development 
Credit Agreement enumerated in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, as 
well as pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Development 
Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and 
on behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association 
pursuant to the provisions of any of such Sections of 
the Development Credit 
Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be 
deemed to be furnished to both the 
Association and the 
Bank.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Provinces pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events set out in Section 4.01 
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events set out in Section 4.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement; and
 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
incorporated into this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning November 1, 1993
     through   November 1, 2007                    1,335,000
On May 1, 2008                                     1,285,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding on the Loan on 
Page  6
the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                          0.55
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
