Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1887 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2924 CHA
(Coastal Lands Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGSU PROVINCE
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Dated September 16, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1887 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2924 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1988 among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and JIANGSU PROVINCE and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE (the Provinces).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Provinces 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS each of the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and rural development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and the Provinces shall otherwise agree, each 
of the Provinces shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in coordinating and carrying out the Project, 
the Provinces shall: (i) maintain a Provincial Project Coordinating Committee, with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and the Bank; and (ii) 
maintain a Provincial Project Office with staff, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.06, 9.07, 9.09 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Provinces shall, at the request of the Association 
or the Bank, exchange views with the Association or the Bank with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan. 
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by each 
of the Provinces of its obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Each of the Provinces shall cause the respective Corporation to 
charge interest on Sub-loans at ABC's prevailing rates for similar loans for similar 
purposes, and shall from time to time review such interest charges with the 
Association in light of the cost of funds to such Corporation and its financial 
viability, as well as changes in ABC's interest rates.
Section 2.07. Each of the Provinces shall cause the respective Corporation to 
use any net cash receipts by such Corporation due to differences in timing between 
Sub-loan receipts and repayments to the respective Provinces, only for financing 
activities similar to those assisted under the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Provinces shall: (i) maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition in respect of activities related to its part of the Project; and 
(ii) cause the respective Corporation to maintain records and accounts, including 
separate Project accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial conditions.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association and the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, including each of the Corporations' 
financial statement, in such scope and in such detail as the Association and the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association and the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit or 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, each of the 
Provinces shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association and the Bank 
have received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit 
or Loan Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's and the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; 
and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of 
such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their 
terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates or, 
both of said Agreements terminate, in accordance with their terms before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both, 
as the case may be, shall promptly notify each of the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Jiangsu Province:
Page  5
Jiansu Provincial People's Government
No. 68, Beijing Xi Road, Nanjing,
Jiangsu Province,
People's Republic of China
For Zhejiang Province:
Zhejiang Provincial People's Government
No. 2, Shengfu Road,
Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of either of the 
Provinces, or by either of the Provinces on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
Governor of such Province or such other person or persons as such Governor shall 
designate in writing, and each of the Provinces shall furnish to the Association and 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to each 
of the Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement: (a) the obligations of each 
of the Provinces to consult with, and to furnish information, documents, plans, 
reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent that 
each of the Provinces' performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association; (b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish 
information to each of the Province shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations 
are fulfilled by the Association; and (c) all actions taken (including the giving of 
approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the 
Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
JIANGSU PROVINCE
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
Page  6
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped under contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
2.
(i) breeding stock; (ii) items or groups of items estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract and (iii) off-the-shelf items acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Works for pond construction, plantation establishment and on-farm works shall be 
procured in accordance with local procedures satsifactory to the Association and the 
Bank.
4.
Contracts for civil works for the construction of facilities to be provided 
under the Project shall be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding 
procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
Page  7
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of Schedules 3 and 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association and the Bank have authorized 
withdrawals from the Credit and Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) 
of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Provinces in carrying out the Project, the Provinces 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Each of the Provinces shall ensure that Project activities shall be carried out 
in conformity with appropriate guidelines on environmental control issued by the 
Provinces and acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
2.
Each of the Provinces shall ensure that agro-processing facilities constructed 
under the Project will be managed by competent staff with experience and background 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
3.
Each of the Provinces shall carry out the staff training to be provided under 
the Project in accordance with a training program agreed between the Association, the 
Bank and the Provinces, such training program to be reviewed by the Association, the 
Bank and the Province on an annual basis.
4.
Each of the Provinces shall furnish to the Association and the Bank 
semi-annually the progress reports within 60 days of the end of each six-month period. 
5.
Jiangsu Province shall: (i) by November 1 of each year, prepare and discuss with 
the Association and the Bank a plan for provision of chemical fertilizer sufficient to 
meet crop nutrient requirements of the following year; and (ii) thereafter implement 
such a plan.
6.
Each of the Province shall establish and thereafter maintain, a working group to 
study the marketability of shrimp, with membership, terms of reference and funding 
level, all satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
