OFFICIAL
DOCU MENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1887 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Coastal Lands Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTiRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   SL/?     i-- c    /     , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1887 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   5.2Sv-q 7/                 , 1988, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provinces (hereinafter collectively called the Provinces) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to each of the Provinces the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the
Bank and the Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and the Provinces of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Corporations" means Lianyungang Aquatic Breeding
Corporation, Nantong Aquatic Products Supply and Sales Corporation
and the Yancheng General Coastal Development Corporation in
Jiangsu Province, and Zhejiang Coastal Land Reclamation
Corporation, the Zhejiang Aquaculture Corporation and the Ningbo,
Xianshan-Damutu Coastal Land Reclamation Corporation in Zhejiang
Province;
(d) "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) and Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan to be made by any of the
Corporations, partly out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan, to a Sub-borrower under the Project;


﻿-3-
(f) "Sub-borrower" means a recipient of a Sub-loan; and
(g) "ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(h) "Y" means Yuan, the currency of the Borrower; and
(i) "ha" means hectare.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-four million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 44,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the name of Jiangsu Province in dollars a
special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the name of Zhejiang Province in dollars a
special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing May 1, 1998 and ending November 1, 2022. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2007,
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790


﻿-5-
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Provinces to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Provinces therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of
SDR 30,400,000 and $27,600,000, out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the proceeds of the Loan, respectively, to Jiangsu Province in
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association and
the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of
SDR 13,600,000 and $12,400,000, out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the proceeds of the Loan, respectively, to Zhejiang Province
in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by each of the Provinces pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Either of the Provinces shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that either of
the Provinces will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Any of the Charters establishing the Corporations shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as


﻿-  7  -
to affect materially and adversely the ability of any of the
Corporations to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any of the Corporations or for the suspension of any of
its operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty,(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council has approved this
Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by each of the Provinces, and is legally
binding upon each of the Provinces in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANMIN                          22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/- 4S/ A7           0S       4
By
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of       Amount of
the Credit       the Loan
Allocated       Allocated         % of
(Expressed      (Expressed      Expendi-
in SDR        in Dollar       tures to
Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)    be Financed
(1) Works under
Part A of
the Project
for:
(a) pond        19,090,000     600,000       37%
develop-
ment and
laver
establish-
ment
(b) plantation    900,000    2,600,000       37%
establish-
ment and
on-farm
works
(c) buildings    1,470,000   4,000,000       24%
and roads


﻿- 11 -
Amount of       Amount of
the Credit       the Loan
Allocated       Allocated         % of
(Expressed      (Expressed      Expendi-
in SDR        in Dollar       tures to
Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)    be Financed
(2) Works under
Part B of
the Project
for:
(a) sea dikes   2,920,000    2,700,000       65%
(b) pond        1,830,000    6,600,000       36%
develop-
ment
(c) buildings   1,100,000      600,000       24%
and roads
(3) Equipment,                                    100% of foreign
vehicles' and                                expenditures
materials:                                   100% of local
expenditures,
(a) under       8,790,000   20,000,000       (ex-factory
Part A                                  cost) and 75%
of the                                  of local
Project                                 expenditures
for other
(b) under       7,600,000    2,500,000       items procured
Part B                                  locally
of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of       Amount of
the Credit       the Loan
Allocated       Allocated         % of
(Expressed      (Expressed      Expendi-
in SDR        in Dollar       tures to
Category       Equivalent)     Equivalent)    be Financed
(4) Consultants'                                  100%
services and
overseas
training:
(a) under          150,000     400,000
Part A
of the
Project
(b) under          150,000
Part B
of the
Project
TOTAL           44,000,000  40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 5,100,000


﻿- 13 -
under Category (1), and SDR 2,200,000 under Category (2),
respectively, may be made out of the proceeds of the Credit on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after June 30, 1987.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop coastal
lowlands, mud flats and shoals of the Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Jiangsu Province
1.   Aquaculture - construction or improvement of about
8,260 ha of ponds for shrimp, about 33 ha of open ponds
and about 87,000 sq m of sheltered ponds for eels;
establishment of about 275 ha of laver fields; and
provision of supporting facilities (hatcheries, tech-
nical service centers, feed mills, cold stores and laver
processing equipment), vehicles, boats, equipment, and
production materials;
2.   Animal Husbandry - provision of breeding stock, on-farm
improvements, and supporting facilities for development
of goat, duck, rabbit and mink production; construction
and equipping of six agroprocessing plants, three feed
mills, and one training center; provision of vehicles
and equipment;
3.   Agriculture - establishment of fruit and nut production
bases on about 4,400 ha; provision of planting material
for upgrading or intercropping on about 12,500 ha;
construction and equipping of two agroprocessing plants
and three cold stores; provision of vehicles and
equipment;
4.   Agriculture Technology Development - establishment or
improvement of three feed mills and, four processing
plants for rapeseed, sesbania, asparagus and barley,
planting of barley, sesbania and asparagus on about
22,000 ha; and improvement of diagnostic facilities for
plant and animal diseases.
5.   Training and study tours - for technical staff and
farmer producers.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:   Zhejiang Province
1.   Aguaculture - construction of about 1,400 ha of
ponds for shrimp and about 118 ha of open ponds and
150,000 sq m of sheltered ponds for eels; provision of
supporting facilities (hatcheries, cold stores, feed
mills, training centers), processing facilities for
eels, vehicles, boats, equipment, and production
materials;
2.   Training and study tours - for project staff and farmer
producers.
the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Jiangsu Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(3)(a) and (4)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 3,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account or the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account


﻿- 17 -
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account or from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions applicable thereto; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for
Part A   of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the respective General Conditions with respect to
Part A of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall


﻿- 18 -
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case
may be.


﻿19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Zhejiang Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2),
(3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account or the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account


﻿- 20 -
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account or from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions applicable thereto; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for
Part B of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the respective General Conditions with respect to
Part B of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall


﻿- 21 -
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case
may be.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


