DoeumM of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
ReptNo. 7860
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-UG)
JUNE 13, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit                        U Uganda Shilling (USb)
US$1.00                 -           USh 60.55 (June 1968
US$1.00                 .            SDR 0.72
USh 1.00                -           US$0.017
SDR 1.00                -           US$1.37
GLOSSARY OF ABBRrVIATIONS
N           -           nitrogen
CDC         -           Commonwealth Development Corporation
P205        -           phosphate
DAP         -           diammonium phosphate (182 N, 462 P205)
EIB         -           European Investment Bank
NPK         -           complex fertilizer
MAP         -           mono-ammonium phospbAte (11Z N, 552 P205)
SSP         -           single superphosphate (18? P205)
TICAF       -           Tororo Industrial Chemical and
Fertilizers Limited
tpy         -           tons per year
TSP         -           triple superphosphate (46Z P205)
UDC         -           Uganda Development Corporation
GOU         -           Government of Uganda
FISCAL YEAR
Government              July 1 - June 30
TICAF                   January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL UR ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
OIce  i Dvent-CeEW,ai
Op.#amwm% ivaW tum
June 20, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Uganda
Phosphate Engineering Project (Credit 1228-UG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
OProject Completion Report on Uganda - Phosphate Engineering Project
(Credit 1228-UG)' prepared by the Eastern Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Yves Rovani
by Rom K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used oy recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FM 0OFIIAL UU ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ............................................................   i
Basic Data Sheet . .............................................  ii
Evaluation Summary   .............................................  iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION ..............................................  1
II.   THE PROJECT .............................................1 
A.    Project Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and
Credit Effectiveness                     .1
B.  Project Objectives and Scope.                                      2
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT.                                  3
A.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                 3
B. Project Management.                                                 5
C.    Contracting, Use and Performance of Consultants.                 5
D.    Project Implementation Schedule..   6
E.  Project Cost and Financing .6
F. Future Action.. 6
IV. ASSOCIATION ROLE.                                                         7
V. LESSONS LEARNED.. 7
ANNEX A - Letter of Uganda Development Corporation
dated April 18, 1989 * ........................................    9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
OTHER DATA
First Mention in Files                                                     02/80
Appraisal Mission                                                          06/81
Post Appraisal Mission                                                     08/81
Negotiation                                                                11/61
Board Approval Date                                                     03/14/82
Loan Signature Date                                                     06/14/82
Loan Effective Date                                                     C9/14/82
Closing Date                                                            01/15/86
Borrower                                                                     GOU
Executing Agency                                                           TICAF
MISSION DATA
Month/Year      No  of Days    Persons        Report Date
Reconnaissance          2/80               5             1                 3180
Appraisal                6181              8             2                 2/82
Supervision I           8/82               3            1               8/24/84
Supervision II          11/82              3            2              12/09/92
Supervision III         2/83               3            2               3117/83
Supervision IV          12/83              5            2               1/14/84
Supervision V           6/84               4            2               7/12/84
STAFF INPUT
(mn-veeks)
FY19S0 FYlOSI FY1982 FYI90$ FY194 FYINS FYIM  FY157  TOTAL
Preappraieal      4.6   6.7      -      -                          -    11.8
Appraisal          -     t.:.  16.6    -       -      -      -     -    21.7
Negotiation        -            7.6    -       -      -      -     -      7.5
Supervision        -      -      .5  16.9  11.9   6.7   .9    1.7   86.6
TOTAL             4.6   9.6  26.6   16.9  11.9   6.7   .9    1.7   79.1



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-UG)
EVALUATION SUHMARY
1.          The Association first reviewed the Govern.ient of Uganda (%;OU)
request to provide assistance in assessing the prospects of an integrated
phosphate project based on the Sukulu Hills deposits during a Bank
reconnaissance mission in February 1980. Following the Association appraisal
mission in Uganda in June 1981, an IDA Credit of SDR 3.5 million was provided
to the Government to finance the execution of a comprehensive feasibility
study under the Phosphate Engineering Project. The Project was approved by
the Board on March 14, 1982, and the Credit became effective on September 14,
1982 (para. 2.02).
2.          The Study was contracted out by TICAF to a foreign engineering
contractor to: (i) review the potential markets for various phosphate products
in Uganda, the Eastern African region, and the Indian sub-continent; (ii) firm
up the extent of phosphate reserves in the Sukulu Hills area; (iii) test
beneficiation alternatives for concentrating phosphate ores; (iv) derive
appropriate processing methods for the production of fertilizers; and (v)
design optimal configuration of the full-scale project by comparing capital
and operating costs of different options--seventeen different project
configurations and their corresponding economic viability were evaluated
(para. 3.02).
3.          The Study concluded that the best option for the exploitation of
the Sukulu Hills phosphate deposits is to establish a single superphosphates
(SSP) plant with an annual capacity of 217,000 tons using sulfuric acid based
on imported sulfur. The total project cost with this configuration was
estimated at US$65.1 million; the Project was estimated to have an economic
rate of return of 14.5Z (para. 3.02).
4.          The Project achieved its attested objectives of establishing the
technical, commercial and economic viability of a full-scale phosphate
development project based on the Sukulu Hills deposits. However, the follow-
up implementation of recommendations made in the Study could not materialize
because the Government did not have the financial and technicai resources to
build a project of this scope on its own. Further, the political conditions
in the country and continued depressed global phosphate market conditions have
discouraged potential foreign investors and financiers from making commitments
to participation in the full-scale project. At present, it is anticipated
that the follow-up projec, will not be substantiated until these two major
constraints will be mitigated significantly (paras. 3.04, 3.05).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-UG)
PREFACE
1.          The Association approved a Credit of SDR 3.5 million (US$4.0
million equivalent) on March 14, 1982 to the Government of Uganda (GOU) to
assist in carrying out a comprehensive feasibility study (the Study/the
Project) to evaluate the technical, commercial and economic viability of
exploiting the phosphate deposits at Sukulu Hills, the largest proven
phosphate reserves in East Africa. The Study was intended to prepare for a
full-scale phosphate development project covering mine development, rock
beneficiation and phosphate fertilizer production. The Project's sponsor was
the Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizer Limited (TICAF), a state-owned
enterprise. The Study was completed in May 19f5; US$3.92 million equivalent
of the Credit had been disbursed by December 1985. The balance of US$0.08
million has been cancelled due to cost underrun.
2.          The Study indicated that the Sukulu Hills deposits can be
exploited in an economically and commercially viable manner. At the start of
the Study, it was expected that the firm establishment of the technical,
commercial and economic viability of exploiting the deposits would enable the
Government to attract foreign partners or financiers, who would be willing to
participate in the full-scale development and operation of the Project.
However, continued political instability in Uganda in recent years, coupled
with the current phosphate market conditions, has made it difficult for this
opportunity to materialize. Consequently, since the Government lacks
technical and financial resources to carry it out without foreign
participation, the follow-up of recommendations made in the Study has not been
implemented yet. The Government now feels (letter of UDC dated April 18,
1989) that with improved political stability, with a change of product-mix
(to include Triple Superphosphate), and the possibility of sale of the output
to PTA countries (Kenya and Tanzania), there is now scope for proceeding with
the project. They have updated the project report to reflect the changed
product-mix and initiated the process of identifying possible equity partners.
However, BAnk views are that the proposed change in product-mix may not be the
optimal te_6inicai solution and that the original project scope should normally
show a higher economic viability. The revised proposal requires critical
assessment.
3.       This PCR was read  by  the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Annex A).



- ii -
PROJECT COMPL5TION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-UG)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                          Appraisal Estimates            Actual
Project Cost (SDR million)
Local Cost                     0.42                    0.42
Foreign Exchange Cost         3.50                     3.43
Total Financing Required    3.92                     3.85
Cost Overrun (Underrun) (Z)                                  (0.7Zi
Financing (SDR million)
Government Contribution       0.42                     0.42
IDA                           3.50                     3.43 a/
Total Financing            3.92                     3.85
Cumulative Credit Disbursement (SDR mil?ion)
1982      1983      1984      1985        1986   1987
Appraisal Estimate                0.5        1.4      3.2        3.5   )
Actual                            0.5        1.2      2.9        3.4   )   nil    nil
Actual/Appraisal Est. (Z)         100         86       91.        98   )
;
Completion Date   Appraisal Estimate: 10/84           Actual: 05/85
a/ SDR 0.07 million has been cancelled.



levels needed L. support the Project.  The Project would be highly dependent
on exports which is risky.
D. Project Management
3.06        TICAP was responsible for executing the Project.  TICAF employed
engineering consultants to carry out the feasibility study. and a technical
advisory fira to make up for its staffing weakness for the supervision of the
consultants' work. TICAF's Project Unit, which was responsible for project
implementation and supervision of the consultante' work, was maintained until
the completion of the Study. A Project Coordinating Committee, with
representatives from TICAF, UDC, Kilembe mines, the Geological Surveys and
Mines Department, and the Ministries of Industry, Planning and Economic
Development and Finances, was established to oversee the overall
implementation of the Study and to facilitate coordination with the Kilembe
pyrites project. TICAF's Project Unit provad committed to the success of the
Project and actively contributed to the development of the Study. It lacked,
however, sufficient expertise and in this respect the assistance of the
technical advisory firm played an extremely important role. The project
authority (Uganda Development Corporation) has indicated the further
developments in project implementation in their letter of April 18, 1989
(Annex A). With improved political stability and the possibility of Kenya and
Tanzania using some of the output if the project also produces Triple
Superphosphate, UDC has re-started its search fox an equity partner for this
project. The African Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to assist in funding
the project and finding an equity partner. The changed product-mix is claimed
to result in an ERR of 16.8Z. This, however, requires further assessment as
in the Bank's views there are doubts on the merits of the envisaged change in
scope.
C. Contracting, Use and Performance of Consultancs
3.07        The Study was conducted satisfactorily by an international
engineering firm under the oversight of a technical advisory firm, both of
which were selected following World Bank Guidelines. During appraisal and
Credit negotiations, terms of reference (TORs) for the engineering firm and
the technical advisor (section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement) were
agreed upon by the Government and Association. TICAF invited seven
internationally recognized firms to present proposals, of which five responded
by the due date, January 5, 1982. Out of the five firms, Bearden & Potter
(U.S.) was selected as the engineering consultant for the Project. SEMA
(France) was selected as the technical advisor to TICAF. After consultation
with Association, the corresponding contracts were both signed in March 1982.
3.08        The engineering consultant carried out the Study satisfactorily.
The conclusions of Phase I of the Study were reviewed jointly by TICAF, the
Technical advisor and the Association in January 1983. The review meeting
concluded that the results of Phase I warranted the continuation of further
studies and tests considered in Phase II, and that a particular emphasis
should be given to marketing, transportation, water supply and financial
aspects of the full-scale development project. Further, it was recommended



-6-
that given the financial veakness of Government, it would be very important
for potential sources of risk capital to be sought early in the process. IZC
participated in the review of the studies and the Government, assisted by the
engineering consultant, contacted potential investors. As mentioned in para.
3.03, no potential investor showed any firm comitment.
3.09        The work of the engineering consultant and the technical advisor
was adequate. Throughout Project Implementation, the Project Unit, in
collaboration with the Association, monitored and supervised their work
effectively.
D. Project Implementation Schedule
3.10        The Project was implemented closely following the schedule as
anticipated at appraisal.  Phase I of the Study was completed in October 1982
on schedule, and Phase II was com leted in October 1984, one month behind
schedule. Final report of the Study was presented to the Government in
January 1985.
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.11        Total cost of the Project was kept within the appraisal estimate.
The entire amount of foreign currency requirement of SDR 3.43 million was
covered by the Credit.
3.12        Disbursement of the Credit was carried out against the following
categories:
Credit Disbursements
(in SDRs)
Appraisal
Category                               Estimates          Actual
Advances through PPF                                  620,000         540,885
Consultant Services for Phase I of the Project
(in addition to payments made through the PPF)      946,000          630,077
Consultant Services for Phase II of the Project   1,894,000         2,247,368
Operating Costs for the Project Unit                   40,000          11,992
Total Costs         3,500,000        3,430,322
F. Future Action
3.13        Engineering loans and credits such as this Project are aimed at
firming up the technical and economic feasibility of a project at an early
stage of its preparation. The role of these loans/credits is extremely
important, especially in less-developed countries with a shortage of
professional skills to supervise and monitor the quality and responsiveness of



-7-
such specialized studies. In the case of this Project, the Study concluded
that the Project was feasible, and recoamended app;.opriate configuration of
the processing facilities. However, the country's political and other
conditions and the continued depressed international phosphate market, posed
significant difficulties in the follow-up of reca endations made in the
Study, particularly regarding the implementation of a full-scale phosphate
fertilizer project in Uganda. Foreign investors experienced in the technical
and marketing aspects of the fertilizer industry have not shown any
willingness to rake commitAments because of the above-mentioned market and
political situations as well as the over-riding dependence on one country's
import market for project viability. Considering the country's political and
financial situation, it is anticipated that the Government will not be able to
carry out such a full-scale project in the near futuro. The follow-up project
might have to wait for quite some time until those constraints disappear.
Meanwhile, the Government needs to closely monitor the domestic and
international market conditions. When the situation improves, the Government,
possibly with Association assistance, needs as a first step to revive its
contacts with potential foreign investors and financiers. The UDC has begun
to revive the project as indicated in their letter of April 18, 1989
(Annex A).
IV. ASSOCIATION ROLE
4.01        The Association considered that the exploitation of the Sukulu
Hills phosphate deposits was an important element of the country's
rehabilitation drive given the shortage of foreign exchange to purchase
essential imports. TICAP, which had operated for a decade with marginal
efficiency, needed external support to establish a basis for sound evaluation
of investment opportunities. Therefore, the Association responded positively
to the Government's request for assistance in carrying out the detailed
engineering and economic studies, thus providing required funds to finance its
execution under the Project. The Association helped TICAF to define the scope
of the Study, and monitored its progress periodically. During the five
Association supervision missions, Association staff provided necessary advice
to the Project Unit on the implementation of the Project. In addition, the
Association contracted prospective investors and arranged the Government's
correspondence with them.
V.  LESSONS LEARNED
5.01        One important lesson learned from the Project was that the
preparation of well-designed TORs and continuous monitoring of consultants'
work are the key to the success of engineering projects. The structuring of
the Project with an engineering firm, supervised by Government with assistance
of another consulting firm, while expensive, was justified. Despite political
instability and administrative inefficiencies which prevailed in the country
during project implementation, the Project was executed well largely due to
the well-conceived TORs covering most of the critical issues and appropriate
institutional arrangements proposed by the Association for close monitoring of



the work. The Project also benefited from periodic supervision by the
Association at different stages of the consultant's work. The Study put forth
comprehensive recommendations on almost all the important aspects of the full-
scale development of the Sukulu Hills deposits, confirming the need for
careful consideration of plausible options to be investigated in such studies.
The Study has been one of the most comprehensive and mll-executed feasibility
studies carried out recently in sub-Saharan Africa; considering the size of
future investment requirements in implementing such a development project, the
Study war a critical step in avoiding possible waste of resources; in fact,
aggressive sales promotion by foreign suppliers of equipment and services
could have led to improper planning and development for the Sukulu deposits.
5.02        The other lesson was that stronger emphasis on the identification
of possible sponsors and cofinanciers should have been put at an earlier stage
of the Study if it was expected that their participation was indispensable.
In fact, the commercial and economic viability of a project alone is not
sufficient to attract foreign investors in politically unstable countries.
Foreign investors generally want to be assured of guaranteed profits and
recovery of initial investment in such countries. Uganda needs to improve its
political and economic stability to attract potential investors to participate
in long-term ventures such as that sponsored by TICAF. When it is time to
take up this Project it will be critical to seek a technical and financial
collaboration as a first step to project implementation. The collaborator
would recheck the economic viability and also ensure that the marketing
linkages established are firm enough to ensure its long term success. Another
lesson learned is for the Bank to determine the degree to which it ought to
support studies of capital intensive projects that, even if viable, are
unlikely to be financeable without the participation of local and foreign
partners. In retrospect, such determination should have been made as soon as
the investment project seemed viable--i.e. at the end of Phase I.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 1228-UG)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Uganda's per capita GDP fell by about 182 between 1972 and 1978
mainly due to political instability and the lack of appropriate economic
policies. Modern sectovs, such as cash crops, nditng, manufacturing and
construction were hardest hit. Uganda's manufacturing sector, which accounted
fur 5.9Z of the country's GDP in 1978, w&. dominated by small-scale
enterprises and cottage industries mostly processing consumer goods based on
imported intermediate products. Uganda's mining sector produced mainly
copper, mica, limestone and phosphates, a major portion of which was exported.
It also provided a basis for a small-scale manufacturing of industrial goods
based on local raw materials. The Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers
Ltd. (TICAF) was formed in 1962, as a subsidiary of the Uganda Development
Corp. (UDC), to exploit the Sukulu Hills phosphate deposits, and to establish
the basis for manufacturing phosphate fertilizers locally. TICAF set up a
single superphosphate (SSP) plant with a capacity of 25,000 tons per year
(tpy) in 1964 based on the utilization of local phosphate rock; sulfuric acid
was produced at a 10,000 tpy plant located at the same site, using about 3,600
tpy of sulfur imported from Kenya and transported by rail. The SSP plant
operated well for about ten years but had to be closed in 1977 due to
shortages of imported sulphur, chemicals, catalysts and spares, and the
departure of skilled technical manpower. At the time of the IDA
reconnaissance mission, the conditions of the plant, irremediably affected by
severe corrosion and long disuse, were beyond any possible prospects of
rehabilitation. Against this background, the Project was aimed at initiating
a study to assess the technical commercial and economic feasibility of
reviving TICAF operation through expanded full-scale exploitation of the
Sukulu Hills phosphate deposits and installation of a new plant at the same
site. The Study was considered an essential step for the full exploitation of
the deposits, particularly in view of the urgent need for foreign
participation. The Government expected the Study to help attract foreign
firms with global interest to participate in the financing of a full-scale
project as well as in its management afterwards.
II.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness
2.01        During a reconnaissance mission of the Bank's Industry Department
in February 1980, the Government informed the mission of its high priority for
the development of a modern phosphate industry, and requested the Association
assistance in carrying out detailed feasibility studies and preparatory work



-2-
that could lead to commercially and economically viable exploitation of the
Sukulu Hills phosphate deposits. Detailed terms of reference (TOR) for the
Study were discussed during the Association appraisal missions to Uganda,
rerpectively, in June and in August 1981.  The TORs were agreed upon during
Credit negotiations in November 1981.
2,02        A Credit of SDR 3.5 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on March 17, 1982 under standard terms.  The Credit
proceeds were passed on to the Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers
Ltd. (TICAF) in the form of equity. The Credit and Project Agreements were
signed, respectively, with the Government and TICAF on June 14, 1982, and the
Credit became effective on September 14, 1982.
B. Project Obiectives and Scope
2.03        The Project objectives were to: (i) assess the technical,
commercial and economic viability of exploiting the Sukulu Hills phosphate
deposits; (ii) compile data required for the preparation of a full-scale
project, that would help potential foreign partners and credit sources
understand better the merits of investment in such a project; and (iii)
prepare a comprehensive full-scale mine and production development plan,
including basic engineering design of the facilities required, machinery and
equipment lists, manning requirements, possible marketing arrangements and
detailed cost and benefit analyses. Within the scope of the Study, the
possibility of reducing SSP production costs by using the cobaltiferous pyrite
byproducts of copper mining at Kilembe as the raw material for sulfuric acid
was also analyzed. The potential rehabilitation of the Kilembe mines was
reviewed separately under an EIB-financed engineering project.
2.04        The Project was carried out in two phases.  Phase I of the Project
covered analyses on:
(a)   markets and marketing of various potential phosphate products in
Uganda and the African region;
(b)   availability of phosphate raw materials and optimal mining method;
(c)   the feasibility of utilizing the pyrites stored at Kasese as
domestic sources of sulfur as compared with the option of using
imported sulfur; and
(d)   transportation and distribution of inputs and outputs.
2.05        Phase II of the Project, which was approved by the Government in
consultation with the Bank after the completion of Phase I, was carried out to
investigate options for marketing products and to prove the specifics of a
potentially economically exploitable phosphate deposit in terms of quality.
quantity and continuity. The detailed scope of Phase II included the
following:



-3-
(a)   Design of appropriate pnosphate mining methods and facilities,
including trial mining operations and preliminary design and
engineering work;
(b)   Laboratory and pilot testing of phosphate beneficiation and
processing to determine the optimal beneficiation procc ss;
(c)   Analysis of status of utilities and infrastructure and of the
environmental impact of a potential full-scale fertilizer project;
(d)   Definition of the project implementation arrangements and
schedule, including recommendations on training programs;
(e)   Analysis of capital and operating costs;
(f)   Evaluation of the financial and economic viability of a full-scale
development project; and
(g)   Preliminary exploration of equity financing and legal aspects
related to concession agreements, mining regu'lations, and
incentives necessary to attract potential partners.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Achievement of Project Objletives
I
3.01        Phase I of the Study, completed in December 1982, suggested
encouraging findings that warranted further investigation of critical issues
in Phase II.  On February 16, 1983, the Government requested Association
approval for the implementation of Phase II of the Study, and that request was
approved subsequently. The final report of the Study was presented to the
Government in November 1984.
3.02        The Study concluded that the Sukulu Hill deposits, the largest one
in East Africa, with reserves estimated at about 230 million tons of residual
soil with an average grade of 11-12Z P205, are easily mineable--as confirmed
by a successful trial mining test executed under the Study; and furthermore,
that on-site beneficiation of the rock could upgrade the P205 content up to
40-44Z, a level among the highest in the world. In order to select the
optimal plant configuration, the Study considered 29 different scenarios, from
the simplest ones (ground rock, partially acidulated rock, single
superphosphate) to the most complex (triple superphosphate, mono-ammonium
phosphate, di-ammonium phosphate), at different levels of plant capacity and
under different assumptions of sulfuric acid availability. A plant with a
capacity of 217 i000 tpy of SSP based on local sulfuric acid production from
imported sulfur was recommended as part of the optimum project configuration.
1 The EIB-financed studies of the Kilembe cobalitferous pyrite deposits did
not endorse the long-term utilization of the pyrites as a substitute for imported
sulfur.



The Project was directed to satisfy regional demand--Uganda, Kenya and
Tanzania--while its impact on the international markets was considered
negligible, given the land-locked location or the Project and the relatively
low grade content of the proposed product (SSP, 23? P205 which would increase
the delivered cost of phosphorous nutrient. The capital cost of the full-
scale project, including working capital but excluding interest during
construction, was estimated at US$65.1 million in 1984 prices. Based on
future prices of phosphate fertilizers projected by the Bank's Commodities
Division, the economic rate of return of the proposed full-scale project was
estimated at 14.5X.  Reviewing the project assumptions under today's
conditions shows that international prices of TSP and SSP have not changed
significantly between 1984 and 1988, and there are now indications that they
are moving up, while prices of sulfur (the main imported raw material of the
Project) has gone down by 302 between 1984 and 1988.  The investment cost may
have increased by 10?, while local costs have not in real terms.  Overall, the
ERR of the Project under current conditions is still in the range of 14z.
3.03        After the completion of the Study, with Association assistance,
the Government explored participation of potential investors in the full-scale
development project. Foreign firms contacted by the Government included
AGRICO (U.S.), the Islamic Development Bank, BADEA, the ENI Group (Italy).
Kenyan agricultural associations were also contacted as the Study indicated
that a major target market for future TICAF Production was tha. western region
of Kenya. However, formal negotiations were not carried out nor were
commitments made.
3.04        The stated objectives of the Project were met sAtisfactorily.  The
Study confirmed that exploiting the phosphate deposit of the Sukulu Hills
could be technically, commercially and economically feasible, and recommended
that the optimum configuration of a full-scale project would consist of the
mining and beneficiation facilities to process about 1.2 million tons per year
(tpy) of phosphate rock, and a downstream plant with a capacity of 217,000 tpy
of SSP (or 50,000 tpy P205). Political instability and the continued
depressed market situation for phosphate fertilizers, however, prevented the
Government from reaching trade arrangements and/or entering partnership with
potential importers of the product in the region or from making necessary
financing arrangements with foreign financing sources for a full-scale
development project.
3.05        The market forecast showed that 70Z of the plant output could be
utilized in Kenya, another 20? in Tanzania and the rest in Uganda. Kenya's
import demand in terms of P205 would come to 31,000 tons, as compared to their
current consumption of 40,000 to 45,000 tons. For the proposed Project to
sell 31,000 tons per year of SSP to Kenya, it would have to replace with its
SSP the current Kenyan imports of SSP and TSP, as also 50Z of P205 imported by
Kenya as MAP, DAP and NPK fertilizers. This could be difficult due to the
excess fertilizer stocks and capacities around the world. International
prices, although they have improved significantly in the last few months, are
still low and 'tatural protection" for the plant zould be limited.  In
addition the tapping of the domestic demand of Uganda would require
appropriate policies in the agricultural sector to provide incentives for
increased use of fertilizers.  Thus, it will take time to develop to the



9 g                                ANEX A
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
TELEGRAMS: UGADEV                                                         P 0 Box   7042
TELEX NO. 6100 UGAOSV
TEL.EPHONE:                                                                  KAMPALA
KAMPALA 23436116                                                              UGANDA
DEV/K 6
18th April, 1989
Alexander NoDwicki,
Division Chief,
Policy-Based Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities, & Urban Sectors
Operations Evaluation Department,
World Bank,
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20633,
USA.
Dear Sir,
UGANDA PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1228-6) PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
We are in receipt of your letter dated April 4, 1989 and the
Project Completion Report dated November 30, 1988 on the above
Project.
We do concur with most of your deductions but would like to
make some observations:
You do emphasize that the project has been delayed because of
political instability, current phosphate market condilions and
inability of Uganda to raise the required funds. Stability
has improved tremendously in the country with a result that
most industries are now reviving pretty fast.
At the time of carrying out the study the collaborative and
cooperative arrangements within the P.T.A. for Eastern and Southern
Africa had not been drawn out. Fertilizer Policy and development
has since been mapped out. Bilateral negotiation between Uganda,
Kenya and Tanzania took place in Nairobi in May 1987 under the
auspices of P.T.A. Secretariat. At that meeting it was agreed
that the project should be implemented but with strong emphasis
on inclusion of Triple Super Phosphate in the product-mix.
We are glad to advise that Government of Uganda/UDC commissioned
the original consultants Beaden Potter Corporation to carry
out the relevant exercise to update the ,tudy and include the
possibility of manufacturing TSP. The final report has been
received. We are sending a copy of the report to Mr. H. E.
Wackman, Industry Division, World Bank. The study indicates
that TSP is a better project to undertake with an Economic Rate
of Return of 16.8%.
I
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  /12



ANNEX A
- 10 -                    Page 2 of 2
l
Negotiations for funding and identification of a technical/management
equity partner had not progressed due to bureaucratic procedures.
The Government has however officially requested African Development
Bank (ADB) to take the leading role in putting together the
funds and idenltifying an equity partner. The ADS has accepted
the role. It is hopetd therefore that the project may move faster.
One of the major issues was to update the report and also have
a product-mix acceptable to the market which has now been addressed.
In sumary the current status is as follows:
(a)   Up-dated report Vol VII dated March 1989 is now available.
(b)   PTA bilateral negotiations between Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania
now provide a wider market.
(c) ADB has accepted the leading role of co-financing the
project and to identify an equity partner.
(d)   We are gratified to note that the World Bank is still
ready to render assistance if necessary.
(e)   We do not know what is your cut- off point in your project
completion report but we consider the up-dated information
to be part of the project completion report as in any
case they should have been accomplished concurrently.
Yours f     uly, 
UGAND              CORPOTI
kulya  ~  v



