Document of
The World Bank                 FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3147-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
March 17, 1982
This document ha a resticted distribtisa mm may be used by reciplents only In the pgfom ace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World Bank anthorin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$ 1.00         =   USh 80.0
US$ 1.00         =   SDR  0.8711
USh 1.00         =   US$  0.013
SDR 1.00         =   US$  1.15
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
N       -   Nitrogen
CDC     -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
'-205    -   Phosphate
DAP     -   Diammonium phosphate (18% N, 46% P205)
EIB     -   European Investment Bank
NPK     -   Complex fertilizer
MAP     -   Mono-ammonium phosphate (11% N, 55% P205)
SSP     -   Single superphosphate (18% P205)
TICAF   -   Tororo Industrial Chemicals and
Fertilizers Limited
tpy     -   Tons per year
TSP     -   Triple superphosphate (46% P205)
UDC     -   Uganda Development Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government    July 1 - June 30
TICAF          January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:        Republic of Uganda
BENEFICIARY:    Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited (TICAF)
ONLENDING
TERMS:        The credit proceeds would be made available by the Government to
TICAF as an equity contribution.
AMOUNT:          SDR 3.5 million (US$4.0 million) equivalent.
TERMS:           Standard.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:  The proposed project would assist the Government:
(a) through a detailed engineering study, executed in two phases,
(i)   to assess its geological potential in phosphate mining,
its prospects in marketing phosphates in the East
African Region and in the Asian Subcontinent, and the
technical, financial and economic possibility of
investing in the phosphate fertilizer sector;
(ii)  to explore the possibilities of equity participation
by foreign phosphate fertilizer companies in a
resulting full-scale investment in the phosphate
sector; and
(b) through technical advisory consultants
(i)   to strengthen TICAF's administrative capacity; and
(ii) to help TICAF to supervise the engineering consultants'
work.
RISKS:           The principal risk would be that security conditions in the
country could again deteriorate. However, the Government is
committed to restore law and order. The risk to the engineering
study is minimal. The main risk facing a full-scale project would
be marketing and transportation problems and the institutional
weakness of the organizations involved. The study to be financed
under the project would provide the analysis needed to review the
transportation and marketing problems. Together with the
technical assistance provided to TICAF under the project and to
UDC under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit (No. 1077-UG),
it is felt that the risks would be satisfactorily addressed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COSTS:                                           Foreign     Local      Total
…----   US$ Thousands-------
Phase I Studies
Market and Marketing Aspects                            135.8        10.0      145.8
Availability of Phosphate Raw Materials                 507.7        45.0      552.7
Availability of Domestic Sources of Sulfur
and Least Cost Location Analysis                      172.3        35.0      207.3
Transportation and Distribution Aspects                 124.2        10.0      134.2
Subtotal - Phase I (Part I)                     940.0       100.0   1,040.0
Phase II Studies
Development of Appropriate Mining Methods               356.5       100.0      456.5
Phosphate Beneficiation Tests                           277.3         -        277.3
Utilities, Infrastructure & Environmental
Impact Studies                                        193.2        40.0     233.2
Project Implementation Arrangements                     517.3        10.0      527.3
Capital and Operating Costs Estimation                   97.7         -         97.7
Equity Financing and Legal Aspects                       69.5         -         69.5
Financial and Economic Analysis                          88.5         -         88.5
Subtotal - Phase II (Part II)                 1,600.0      150.0   1,750.0
Project Unit                                                50.0        40.0       90.0
Technical Advisory Services to Project Unit                479.0        35.0      514.0
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                    3,069.0       325.0   3,394.0
Physical Contingeaicies                                    600.0        51.0      651.0
Price Contingencies                                        331.0       140.0      471.0
Total Cost                                     4,000.0       516.0   4,516.0
Financing Plan:                                          Foreign      Local       Total
-US$ Million--------
IDA Credit                             4.0          -           4.0
Government                              -          0.5          0.5
Total                                  4.0         0.5          4.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year       FY1982   FY1983      FY1984      FY1985
-------------US$ Million-------------
Annual              0.3       1.3        1.8         0.6
Cumulative          0.3       1.6        3.4         4.0
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Appraisal Report:    No separate report
1/ The project would be exempt from taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Uganda of SDR 3.5 (US$4.0) million equivalent on
standard IDA terms for a phosphate engineering project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in August 1981 and its report
will be distributed shortly to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages: a favorable climate (with two rainy seasons in most parts of
the country); fertile soils; a well-established indigenous smallholder sec-
tor producing a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea, and
tobacco) and an ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector con-
tributing exports of textiles and copper; a well-developed transport infra-
structure; an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the most
advanced education systems in East Africa. Uganda's complement of skilled
and trained manpower was greater than that of either Kenya or Tanzania.
With those two countries it shared well-developed services: the railways,
ports, an airline, posts and telecommunications. These favorable initial
conditions, combined with competent economic management, resulted in a
steady 2% per year growth in per capita GDP (1963-70), and an average sav-
ings rate of 15%, which in turn permitted a high level of investment with-
out inflationary pressure. A balance of payments current account surplus
was maintained in most years, and central government revenue increased
faster than recurrent expenditure, contributing a significant proportion of
development outlays.
4.        Uganda's political situation was less felicitous.  Long-standing
conflicts between the largest single kingdom (Buganda), the other kingdoms
and the rest of the country continued during the 1960s, and became further
complicated by ideological and social rivalries. This led to increasing
dependence on the military, and in 1971, a military coup brought General
Amin to power.
5.        From 1971 to 1979, (the year when the military government fell),
the economy declined drastically. GDP stagnated and per capita incomes
fell. Deterioration occurred in almost every sector of the economy.
Savings and investment, exports and government revenues declined in real
terms. Government and balance of payments deficits increased, arrears were



- 2 -
accumulated and blackmarketing and corruption flourished. This outcome was
not surprising given the economic mismanagement over this period. Only
subsistence agriculture continued growing in response to both food security
needs and the curtailment of earning opportunities in the monetized
sectors. The coffee boom in 1977 provided temporary respite and for a time
imports recovered. But by 1979, the combined impact of the previous years'
depredations and the damage and looting during and after the war had
reduced the economy of Uganda to ruins. Crops were damaged, livestock
killed, many buildings and factories gutted and portable goods of all kinds
ranging from school books and office records to tools, equipment and
vehicles stolen (frequently to be smuggled into neighboring countries).
6.        A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the Ugandan economy
in May 1979 recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and
policy reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange. The reforms
proposed included: the raising of agricultural producer prices and the
relief of bottlenecks in the transport and marketing systems; the
strengthening of foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing; a mora-
torium on parastatal and cooperative indebtedness to enable banks to
advance import credit while this indebtedness was being studied; and the
relaxation of price controls coupled with either devaluation or a combina-
tion of foreign auctions and higher taxes.
7.        Until 1981, no action was taken on any of these proposals, except
the raising of agricdltural producer prices, the value of which was soon
wiped out by inflation. This failure to undertake policy and administra-
tive reform, coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the
1979 oil shock and world recession led to even more rapid declines in
output and incomes from 1979 to 1981 than had occurred previously. Taking
the deteriorating terms of trade into account, per capita income in 1980
was some 27% below its 1978 level. Although there has probably been some
recovery in 1981, especially in the agricultural sector, average incomes
are still depressed. Capital productivity is severely constrained by
inadequate maintenance, a drying-up of raw material and spare parts,
supplies, and the looting of workshops and tools during and after the war.
8.        By 1981, the estimated volume of merchandise imports was 30%
below the 1978 level and nearly 60% below the 1970 level. This was despite
an increase in official grant and loan disbursements from US$63 million per
year in 1977-78 to US$207 million per year in 1979-81, an increase in pay-
ment arrears of US$180 million during 1979 and 1980 and a US$60 million
drawdown of gross foreign exchange reserves. The main factor responsible
for this was a 55% deterioration in the terms of trade. Capital flight,
though unquantifiable, was probably substantial and imports may also have
been under-recorded.
9.        Of the US$400 million of merchandise imports in 1981, about
US$120 million was for petroleum and about US$60 million was imported
directly by the Government for security and administration. In effect,
over 80% of Uganda's merchandise export earnings (US$220 million in 1981)



were absorbed by petroleum and government imports. For all other imports,
including essential consimer goods, drugs and rehabilitation needs, Uganda
depends on official grants and loans, IMF drawings and commercial credits.
This highlights both the difficulty and the critical importance of foreign
exchange management, in particular the need to scrutinize carefully the
Government's own import requirements. The Government is taking steps to
improve its procedures for foreign exchange allocation.
10.       Uganda's external debt was inadequately monitored and controlled
during the 1970s, and it is therefore difficult to present clear data. The
World Bank's estimates, based on data from the Uganda Treasury and the Bank
of Uganda, show total external debt outstanding of US$950 million at the
end of 1981, of which US$710 million was disbursed.1 (IBRD's share of
this was 3.7% while 11.4% was due to IDA.) Official development loans
account for less than two-thirds of outstanding debt. The balance is from
private sources or war-related commitments to Tanzania and Zambia. A large
part of the debt is in arrears: some US$140 million of debt outstanding at
the end of 1981 was principal arrears. (Total arrears, including
short-term debt and interest on long-term debt are estimated at US$257
million at the end of 1981). The debt service ratio was moderately high
for a low-income country, at 15.7% at the end of 1980, but this situation
has deteriorated seriously during 1981, since more than one-quarter of debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980 fell due during the year. As
a result, the debt service ratio rose to 49% in 1981. Furthermore, more
than one-third of debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981 was to
have fallen due over the next two years. A meeting of the Paris Club in
November 1981 agreed to reschedule obligations falling due in 1981/82.2
These will, however, only cover about US$12 million of the more than US$120
million of principal repayments falling due during 1982. The rest is owed
to non-participants, with whom the Government is endeavoring to arrange
rescheduling on terms comparable to those being concluded with Paris Club
participants.
The Government's Program
11.       The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this, how-
ever, is the goal of rehabilitating the directly productive sectors, with-
out which, the Government recognizes, there can be no economic development,
nor expanded social services. The first step towards rehabilitation was
the introduction of a financial program for 1981/82. The second is to be
an economic recovery program, the preparation of which started in November
1981, and details of which will be submitted to a Consultative Group
meeting in May 1982.
1Including Uganda's share of former EAC debt and principal arrears.
2Ninety percent to be repayable in 10 years, including 5 years of
grace, and 10% repayable over the next four years. The participants also
agreed to reschedule about US$15 million of debt arrears.



- 4 -
12.       In early June 1981, the Government introduced a comprehensive
financial program to stabilize the deteriorating economy and revive produc-
tion by restoring confidence in the currency, eliminating price distortions
and improving fiscal and monetary discipline. In particular:
It devalued the Uganda shilling approximately 90% from USh. 7.8
to around USh. 80 to the US dollar (by early 1982, the rate had
fallen further to around 85).
*  It removed administered price controls, except for major export
crops, petroleum products and public utility tariffs. It raised
official producer prices for export crops in June and October
1981 by between 200% and 400%; retail petroleum prices 650% to
1,000% and, in January 1982, it increased tariffs on electricity,
water, posts and telecommunications.
* It reformed the taxation structure, changing import duties from a
specific to an ad valorem basis and reduced the number of
different rates of duty. It merged the Public Sector Investment
Contribution with sales tax or import duty, equalized sales taxes
on imports and domestic production and raised effective sales and
excise taxes on a number of revenue-producing items, and conver-
ted some excise duties to an ad valorem basis.
* It placed ceilings on the budget deficit, government borrowing
and domestic credit expansion, while increasing interest rates.
The Government also confirmed its intention of encouraging a "mixed eco-
nomy", by allowing former owners to reclaim their property or claim compen-
sation and by inviting private investment in a number of areas. The pro-
gram was supported by a 13-month IMF stand-by arrangement for US$135
million and by the release of US$70 million of the First IDA Reconstruction
Credit, disbursements of which had been limited to US$25 million following
the change of government in May 1980. In addition, a number of bilateral
donors announced increased levels of assistance to Uganda before and during
a special meeting of donors in Paris in November 1981.
13.       The system which is now evolving in the wake of these measures is
more market-oriented than before, but still retains important areas of
government control. Foreign exchange allocation, for example, is handled
administratively and the exchange rate is certainly above market-clearing
levels. The Government has, however, continued adjusting both the exchange
rate and other "strategic" prices since June with the aim, in each case, of
reinforcing producers' incentives while maintaining fiscal equilibrium.



14.       The adjustments in agricultural producer prices have, with the
exception of tea, provided a positive return to export production and, by
narrowing price differentials with neighboring countries, reduced the
incentive for smuggling. However, the returns from food crop production
remain higher and the increase in export crop production will be limited in
the absence of complementary inputs, incentive goods and improvements in
marketing and processing infrastructure. Preliminary indications are that
the new coffee prices have provoked a substantial increase in supplies to
processors, but that export supply is now constrained by processing capa-
city. The increase in supplies may also result from a movement of pro-
ducers' stocks rather than increased production. For industrial products,
the removal of price controls, combined with the tax changes, has diverted
previous "magendo" profits to the Government and to producers.
15.       Wages and salaries have increased since June 1981, but are still
low in real terms. The Government raised the minimum wage 100% in August,
but even at its new level, it still only buys the equivalent of about six
kilograms of sugar or three bars of soap per month at prevailing market
prices. Civil service salaries are so low that, despite subsidized housing
and other benefits, officials are forced to pursue other occupations. The
removal of price controls and privileged access to limited supplies of
goods has probably resulted in hardship for certain groups, possibly in-
cluding some poorer ones. While wage and salary restraint are surely
necessary, the success of the program will also depend on its maintaining a
minimum standard of living and adequate work incentives.
16.       While there are important areas in which further steps are
needed, a decisive start to recovery has now been made. With the exception
of some export crop prices, which will require adjustment, the major policy
changes needed have been made. Now, the main areas of action are largely
institutional and will necessarily take time to implement. Moreover, the
Government has responded promptly to the evolving situation by continuing
the process of price adjustment and by initiating a number of institutional
changes in the key areas of foreign exchange management, budgeting and
planning. The program itself and the Government's evolving merit strong
support and encouragement.
Sectoral Priorities
17.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communica-
tions infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, build-
ing materials and agricultural requirements by the industrial sector.
Other sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabili-
tation. But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must



- 6 -
be limited to the extent of their potential contribution in the shorter
term to the recovery process. Improvements in medical services, the repair
of damaged classrooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water
systems, for example, may be expected to provide an important, if
unquantifiable incentive to producers.
18.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depended on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered serious food shortages
in recent years as a result of low rainfall and insecurity.
19.       The rehabilitation of agriculture is the top priority for
Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could
all grow rapidly within the next three years, though only in the case of
tea is the previous peak likely to be reached by 1985. In addition, food
exports to neighboring countries are a distinct possibility. The revival
of cotton and other agricultural production would also supply some domestic
industrial needs. The central constraint to recovery is the incentive
system. Prices for export crops must be remunerative, the efficiency of
the marketing system must be improved, and payment to farmers must be
prompt.  Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, implements,
spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the
production of surpluses. These will require more foreign exchange. Over
the longer term, agricultural services including research and extension
will require more attention.
20.       The industrial sector accounted for only about 11% of GDP in the
1960s. However, it supplied the domestic market with basic goods like
edible oil, soap, paper and cement and produced small exportable surpluses
of textiles and copper. By 1980, industrial value-added had fallen to
about one-third of its previous level, or some 5% of GDP. Many industries
have closed down while others are operating at low levels of capacity
utilization. There has been little new investment over the past decade;
indeed, in recent years, there is evidence of disinvestment in many areas.
21.       The industrial sector is an important potential contributor to
Uganda's recovery. Virtually all its products, especially basic consumer
goods and building materials, will be in strong demand and in most cases
can be produced more cheaply than imports. The most obvious and generally
binding constraint on recovery is foreign exchange for raw materials, spare
parts and capital goods to replace outdated and damaged plant. Other



- 7 -
constraints are, however, apparent in several cases: the low level of
agricultural inputs; thte weakness of infrastructural services, especially
transport; over-expansion of, and political interference in the management
of the parastatal sector; shortages of qualified managers and technicians;
and financial constraints. At the same time, many industrial enterprises,
both private and public, are adequately managed, financially viable and
capable of significant production increases even in the short term.
22.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined
earlier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and
inadequate provision of resources for essential functions like main-
tenance. In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in
1977 had a serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international
trade routes: as a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock
andaircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost. Transport was moreover the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which followed. The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated.
21.       Rehabilitation of the transport system is a key requirement for
recovery. Progress has, however, been slow and uneven. High priority has
been given to imports of road vehicles and railway rolling stock and loco-
motives, but available resources have often not been fully utilized,
especially through over-emphasis on lake ferries, long-haulage trucks
(where rail would be cheaper), and larger aircraft for international
routes. Almost all Uganda's external trade passes through Kenya, so that
cooperation between the two countries remains vital for Uganda. This has
improved of late; Kenya has made a loan to Uganda to help clear goods at
Mombasa port, has rented rolling stock to Uganda and has increased the
number of trains available to Uganda to five per week. A high priority
would be to maximize the use of the railway for international trade, and
for some internal routes also. This involves further improving the coor-
dination of railway operations with Kenya, reducing dependence on expensive
truck transportation, improving track maintenance and safety, and repairing
locomotives and rolling stock.
Assistance Needs
24.       If recovery is to start in 1982, Uganda's merchandise imports
must rise at least one-third over 1981 levels, to about US$540 million in
current prices, with most of the increase allocated for inputs and spare
parts for agriculture, industry and transport, and for basic consumer
goods. From 1983-85, imports are expected to increase less rapidly, by
about 6% per year, since there appears to be ample scope for reestablishing
domestic supply sources and reducing the import content of production.



- 8 -
If these higher import levels can be financed and if progress continues on
the economic management and institutional issues discussed earlier, GDP
could grow at 6-7% on average during 1982-85, with monetary agriculture and
industry as the leading sectors.
25.       The other major claim on available foreign exchange is debt ser-
vice. After allowing for debt relief agreed at the November Paris Club
meeting, principal repayments will total US$125 million in 1982 and US$90
million in 1983. Invisibles may be expected to be a net drain on foreign
exchange during the 1980s, even if there is some revival in tourism.
Uganda also should provide for a reduction in arrears (estimated at US$25
million in 1982 and US$50 million per year until about 1987) and some
buildup of external reserves. The total financing requirement -- for
merchandise imports, invisibles and reserve accumulation -- is expected to
be US$0.8 billion in 1982, rising to US$1.0 billion by 1985.
26.       Exports can be expected to make an important contribution towards
meeting this requirement. For the next two to three years at least, agri-
cultural exports will be the key to recovery. Provided prices are remuner-
ative, marketing becomes more efficient and the supply of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods improves, merchandise exports could grow by about
13% per year on average from 1982-85. Although high rates of growth in all
of the main agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco) can be
expected, coffee will remain dominant for some years. Beyond 1985, the
prospects for other exports, including maize, groundnuts, animal feed,
hides and skins, copper, cobalt and cotton textiles are promising, provided
the exchange rate is maintained at an appropriate level.
27.       From 1982-85, some US$500-550 million per year over and above
export earnings will be needed to meet requirements. If official grant and
loan commitments are maintained in real terms and disbursements and debt
service follow a normal pattern, these could provide some US$240 million
per year on average. A further US$100 million per year could be available
from the IMF, if Uganda becomes eligible for further resources under future
stand-by arrangements.3 This leaves about US$170 million per year over
the next three years to be met from new resources.
28.       Uganda will not be able to finance this gap on commercial terms.
If the amount needed were borrowed at 11.6% for nine years, with four years
of grace (terms far better than those available on the market at present),
Uganda's debt service ratio would fall from 47% in 1982 to 23% in 1985, but
would reach 70% by 1990. Some short-term non-concessional borrowing may
prove unavoidable, given the bunching of principal repayments, but care
must be taken to ensure that the resulting debt burden is manageable.
3The IMF expects to enter discussions of a further stand-by
arrangement for 1982-83 before the beginning of the next fiscal year.



- 9 -
Without additional external financing, GDP growth would probably not exceed
3.8% per year 1982-85, falling to 2.7% subsequently, implying virtually no
per capita income growth.  Uganda will therefore need additional financing
on concessional terms to achieve its much-needed recovery. This financing
will, moreover, have to be fast-disbursing, in the form of balance of pay-
ments support or projects which focus on immediate and urgent require-
ments. New investment for the next three years and possibly longer must be
limited to urgent rehabilitation needs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
29.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda has benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which have been extended for the development of the common services and the
East African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda through their association in the former East African Community
(EAC). Annex II contains summary statements and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. IFC's first investment in Uganda, in a textile company,
was sold to the Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges
in the national parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC
is actively considering the role it could play in rehabilitation as well as
in longer-term development.
30.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Credit of US$72.5 million (including a
participation of US$17.5 million by the Kingdom of the Netherlands) and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Credit Nos.
983/983-1-UG and 54-UG). The Association is also acting as Administrator
of a Can$3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0
million program loan from the OPEC Fund for reconstruction. The Recon-
struction Credit originally experienced delays and disbursements were
slow. Following the change of Government in May 1980, the Bank Group and
the Government agreed to limit temporarily withdrawals of the Credit to an
amount not exceeding US$25.0 million equivalent and to restrict the items
to a specific list of activities: inter alia for coffee and tea rehabili-
tation, agricultural tools, and education and telecommunication equipment.
The remaining amount of the Credit was made available to the Government in
June 1981, after the adoption of the required policy measures in a finan-
cial program also supported by the IMF. By the end of February 1982
US$35.0 million had been disbursed, and an additional US$29.0 million had
been committed. The Government has allocated the balance to prospective
end-users and disbursements are expected to accelerate further. The IMF



- 10 -
has also provided US$200.0 million equivalent in the form of two standby
programs, the current to last until June 1982. In addition, the Bank Group
has provided credits totalling US$17.0 million (through a Technical
Assistance Credit, No. 1077-UG, and a Water Supply Engineering Credit, No.
1110-UG) to finance the studies needed to begin building a project pipe-
line.  Disbursements have begun under the Water Supply Engineering Credit.
To date, only one sub-project has been approved under the Technical Assist-
ance Credit because of start-up administrative problems within the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development (MPED).  However, MPED is now being
strengthened through the UNDP-financed, Bank Group executed Planning Assis-
tance Project. There is now a pipeline of sub-projects submitted or to be
submitted shortly for Bank Group advice and approval; thus commitments and
disbursements are expected to accelerate soon. The Bank Group also admini-
sters an agricultural rehabilitation program of US$20.0 million equivalent
financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development. A second
reconstruction credit and an industrial rehabilitation credit to be pro-
posed for Bank Group financing have been appraised.
31.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments also commented on the Mediator's proposals for the
three Partner States and during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
decided to commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. They
started on December 14, 1981 in Arusha and continued in February in
Kampala.
PART III - THE SECTOR
The Industrial Sector
32.       Background and Structure.  In 1971, considered the latest year of
normal activity, Uganda's manufacturing sector comprised about 970 estab-
lishments employing ten or more people, and a much larger number of cottage
industries and small workshops scattered throughout the country. It con-
tributed 12.2% of monetary GDP and 8.5% of total GDP (in 1966 prices). The
sector showed a real growth rate of about 5.8% per annum between 1966 and
1971. Recorded wage employment in manufacturing was estimated at about
55,000 and electricity consumption by the sector was 277 million kilowatt
hours. By contrast, in 1978, the last full year of the military regime,
the share of manufacturing in monetary and total GDP had dropped respec-
tively to 9.8% and 5.9% (in 1966 prices). Although no data on wage



- 11 -
employment in the sector in 1978 is available, a decline from the 1971
level is generally believed to have taken place, and electricity consump-
tion by the sector was recorded at 161 million kilowatt hours, down 42%
from the 1971 level. Considering that between 1971 and 1978 total GDP fell
in real terms, the role of the manufacturing sector in the economy declined
significantly both in relative and absolute terms over this period. The
overall situation is that, except for cigarettes, the level of production
of all industries in 1978 was much lower than in 1970. In both the private
and public sectors, a number of factories closed down. Because of a lack
of proper maintenance, the state of plant and equipment -- some already
second-hand when installed -- deteriorated further and shortages of
consumer, basic and other manufactured goods continued to grow. The situa-
tion appears to have worsened since 1978 as a result of war-related disrup-
tions, and although this cannot yet be established quantitatively, manu-
facturing production and employment in Uganda in 1980 may well have been at
their lowest levels since a fairly sizeable modern manufacturing sector was
developed in the 1960s.
33.       During this period of declining activity, the sector experienced
a significant shift from a predominance of private ownership of medium and
large enterprises to public ownership, because of Government nationaliza-
tions. The structural characteristics of the sector are virtually
unc' anged since 1971 and remain typical of early industrial development.
Practically all industries depend on imports which accounted for 57% of
industrial inputs in 1975. The larger establishments are mainly light
import-substituting industries, dependent to a considerable extent on
imported inputs. The main subsectors are crop processing (coffee, tea,
sugar), textiles and wearing apparel, leather and footwear, manufacture of
foods and beverages, metal and allied products, basic industrial chemicals,
glass and clay products, wood and paper products. Smaller enterprises are
largely producers of light consumer goods or provide consumer services, and
although less dependent on imported raw materials, are also wholly
dependent on imported machinery and equipment. Typical small industry
activities include tailoring shops, "jaggery" mills, maize mills, furniture
shops and auto repair garages.
34.       Major Issues and Strategy.  The many problems which have contri-
buted to the decline of the industrial sector since 1971 are still largely
unresolved and confront not only the short-term recovery of the sector, but
also its eventual full-scale rehabilitation. In many cases compensation
claims for nationalized properties, including the issues of valuation of
assets and the impact of the recent devaluation (June 1981), have not been
settled and the question of legal ownership is still largely unresolved.
The Government, however, has invited the Mehta and Madhvani families to
return and take full management of their former properties under interim
joint ownership arrangements. Negotiations to this effect are well
advanced. The military government did not make orderly administrative



- 12 -
arrangements to manage the public enterprises. Consequently, some
enterprises have floated from one government agency to another over the
years, and are still not permanently housed. Another principal factor
which led to the current state of affairs is the lack of trained manpower.
The owners and managers who left represented a substantial part of the
technical expertise and skills available for managing industries, and their
departure created a vacuum which is not yet filled. Because of the severe
shortage of foreign exchange, the availability of imported inputs for
industrial enterprises is very limited. For example, the Tororo Steel
Works shut down in 1978 for the lack of materials such as zinc. This
deprived the country of an important building material -- corrugated iron
sheets. The extensive looting of vehicles and other transport equipment
which followed the war created bottlenecks in the transportation system.
As a result, it has been difficult for industrial enterprises to organize
and ensure smooth flows of goods in quantities sufficient for normal
production and distribution.
35.       The Government's immediate objective is to revive sectoral activ-
ity to levels attained in 1971. The strategy for attaining this objective
is to rehabilitate and revive activities which are potentially viable to
enable them to operate at their normal capacities. This strategy is appro-
priate and will permit the most efficient use of new resources available
for the sector. Successful implementation of this rehabilitation strategy
will require resolution of the key constraints: institutional problems,
availability of sufficient supplies of imported inputs, transport
bottlenecks, and replacement of damaged and obsolete equipment. In this
connection, some steps have already been taken through the Government's
Task Force on reactivation of the industrial sector.
36.       Commerce and Parastatals.  The present level and nature of
Government involvement in industry and commerce is the result of earlier
nationalization policies. However, the trend has started to be reversed in
the field of commerce, which the Government has decided to open up to
Ugandan citizens and to foreigners, in limited areas. Shops and commercial
properties abandoned by Asians are being rented out. It is understood that
if Asians, who are citizens of Uganda, return and prove ownership of their
properties, they will be given the option of compensation or repossession.
A team of experts from the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
invited to prepare a report4 in preparation for a donor's meeting in
Kampala in July 1979, proposed in this context to review and reorganize the
Uganda Advisory Board of Trade and recommended that rather than concentrate
its efforts on trading through its 11 companies, it should ultimately be
responsible for promotion and facilitation of both domestic and external
trade. The Bank Group would favor such an approach; the Government has not
taken a position yet.
4"The Rehabilitation of the Economy of Uganda", two volumes, London,
June 1979.



- 13 -
37.       There are now 19 major parastatals.  The four largest, which have
at the moment from 11 to 17 subsidiaries, are the Uganda Development
Corporation (UDC), the Lint Marketing Board, the National Textile Board and
the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade. The Government's policy vis-a-vis
parastatals is geared towards rationalization and reduction of their role,
efforts which the Bank Group encourages and supports.
38.       The Uganda Development Corporation, established in 1952, was a
viable organization up to 1974. It was self-sufficient for its administra-
tive budget and generated enough internal resources to supplement funds it
borrowed from the Government, and local and international institutions, for
new projects and expansions. The transfer of many of its viable subsidi-
aries and associates to other ministries or corporations in 1974/75 left
UDC a weak organization. It began to accumulate large losses and its
debt/equity ratio rose rapidly. Because of its cashflow problems, UDC has
been accumulating debt through new debt and capitalization of interest on
its old debt. Since 1974, neither interest nor capital repayments have
been paid and there was no mechanism for financial or internal control.
The task ahead therefore, is to carefully review UDC with a view to restor-
ing its viability and creditworthiness. In 1980, the Government's Task
Force on the reactivation of the industrial sector recommended that the
proposals for reorganization, as outlined in three previous reports, be
accepted and that the new UDC should start small with about 27 (as opposed
to 58 in 1970/71; 100 between then and 1974; and 17 at the moment)
companies, (one of which would be Tororo Industrial Chemicals and
Fertilizers Limited, TICAF) so that apart from doing some rehabilitation
work, it could resume its traditional role of promoting and developing new
industries. UDC's Board of Directors, representing concerned Government
ministries, was reconstituted in 1979; day-to-day control over its
activities rests with the General Manager. UDC is hampered by lack of
trained staff in all of its departments. Only a few experienced personnel
are still working in UDC. As TICAF's parent company and in view of a
future full-scale investment in the phosphate and other sectors, UDC's
financial structure and financial management system needs to be reviewed,
recommendations for improvement of their adequacy made and implemented in
order to make UDC an economically and financially viable entity capable of
fulfilling its financing and overseer function. This task goes beyond the
engineering project; it has, however, to be resolved by the time of an
investment decision for a full-scale project. The problem of UDC's
reorganization will therefore be part of the dialogue between the
Government and the Association. The Bank Group would also encourage
the Government to allocate funds from the Technical Assistance Credit (No.
1077-UG) to employ consultants, if necessary, to help improve UDC's
financial management system.



- 14 -
The Mining Subsector
39.       Uganda's main mining activities up to the mid-1970s consisted of
copper mining at the foothills of the Ruwenzori mountains, 300 km southwest
of Kampala; phosphate mining near Tororo in the southeastern region;
exploitation of mica near Kampala; cement production at Inganga; and a
small wolfram mining operation, at Masaka on Lake Victoria south of
Entebbe. The most important of these activities were the copper and phos-
phate mining operations, both of which ceased about 1977 as a result of the
severe economic deterioration and political instability. The Government
has set as its immediate objective the rehabilitation of the copper and
phosphate mining operations.
40.       The phosphate mining operation was initiated in 1962 when Tororo
Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited was established as a subsidi-
ary of UDC to develop the phosphate resources in the Sukulu Hills to manu-
facture single superphosphate (SSP) for domestic consumption and export to
Kenya and Tanzania. The production capacity of the SSP plant was 25,000
tpy of granular SSP (bagged) while that of the sulfuric acid plant was
10,000 tons/year. Sulfur (about 4,000 tpy) was imported via Mombasa and
transported by rail. Operations began in 1964 and were carried out
successfully for about 10 years before production started suffering due to
staff losses and inadequate supplies. Both plants were finally closed down
in 1977. However, TICAF's General Manager is still employed in that capa-
city. The plants have been severely damaged by extensive corrosion, exces-
sive acid leakages and long disuse. A report, prepared in 1978, on the
possible rehabilitation of the TICAF sulfuric acid plant and the SSP plant
concluded that only a limited amount of the machinery and equipment could
be considered as having any economic value. This situation would be
reviewed in an engineering study to be financed under the project (see
paragraph 50). The rehabilitation of TICAF's facilities is consistent with
the Government's strategy.
41.       The copper mining operation was brought into production in 1956
by the Kilembe Mining Company Limited, a joint-venture company owned by
Falconbridge Nickel of Canada and UDC. In 1975, Falconbridge sold its
majority share to the Government. The European Investment Bank (EIB) is
assisting the Government in reviewing the potential for rehabilitating the
Kilembe copper mining and processing operations.
World Phosphate Industry
42.       Structure, Supply and Demand.  Phosphate fertilizers are one of
the three principal nutrients necessary for agricultural production and
productivity increases (the other two being nitrogen and potash).
Phosphates are generally traded in three ways: (i) in rock form; (ii) as
phosphoric acid (an intermediate product in the manufacture of phosphate
fertilizers usually produced by reacting the phosphate rock with sulfuric
acid); and (iii) as finished fertilizers based on phosphoric acid.



- 15 -
Principal finished fertilizers containing phosphatic nutrients are:
mono-ammonium phosphate (MAP) containing 11% nitrogen (N) and 55% phosphate
(P205); diammonium phosphate (DAP) containing 18% N and 46% P205; triple
superphosphate (TSP) containing 46% P205; and complex fertilizer (NPK) with
varying contents of N, P205 and potassium (K20). The basic raw material
for production of phosphate fertilizers is phosphate rock which occurs as
igneous and sedimentary deposits in many parts of the world; however, only
a limited number of countries -- Morrocco, U.S. and Jordan are now the
major producers -- possess deposits in quantities and of the quality
necessary for economic, commercial scale operation. About 90% of all
phosphate rock produced is converted into phosphate fertilizers; the
remaining 10% goes into other phosphate chemicals, such as detergents,
insecticides and animal feeds.
43.       Until a few years ago, phosphate fertilizer trade originated
almost entirely from producers in industrialized countries which, with the
exception of the United States of America, imported phosphate rock at rela-
tively low prices and processed it into phosphoric acid and finished ferti-
lizers. Following rapid increases in phosphate rock prices and freight
rates in the early 1970s and the growing popularity of high concentrate
fert: 1izers made the processing of low-grade rock near the rock
beneficiation plant more economic. It is becoming increasingly difficult
for importers of rock to produce phosphoric acid that can compete with acid
produced in vertically integrated operations near the mines. Accordingly,
most new plants, particularly export-oriented facilities, are being built
near phosphate mines. As a result, demand in the export markets for
phosphoric acid and processed phosphate fertilizers is expected to increase
at a much higher rate over the next decade than that for rock exports (7%
vs. 3% p.a.).
44.       Finished phosphate fertilizers are used mainly in the industrial-
ized countries of Europe, North America and Oceania, which together account
for 83% of world consumption. The growth of world finished fertilizer
demand which averaged 6.2% p.a. over the last 20 years is expected to
average 4.5% p.a. over the next few years. Because of their already high
utilization levels, relatively limited growth is expected in the industri-
alized countries; higher growth rates are likely in South America, Asia and
Africa. Bank Group staff projections indicate that planned increases in
capacity will be sufficient to satisfy world demand until 1985. Beyond
1985 however, demand for phosphate fertilizers is expected to increase
steadily from the current (1981) levels of 34 million nutrient tons to 49
million nutrient tons by 1990. Supply shortages would be experienced
unless new capacity over and above current planned projects is added.
These projections take into account known viable projects (including expan-
sion of existing operations and improved beneficiation techniques to allow
for greater utilization of low quality rocks) and suggest that if some of
the projects currently under implementation should slip substantially, the
supply shortages could occur much earlier. In the strengthening market
that will ensue, prices -- which began to increase rapidly after 1973 --



- 16 -
are likely to increase further in real terms. Although there is time to
build additional plants in the early 1980s to avoid the potential short-
fall, the margin is narrow. After 1985, in addition to those presently
planned, approximately five phosphoric acid plants will be required to come
on stream every year to meet forecast demand. Most of these plants will be
built in countries with phosphate rock reserves like Morrocco and the
United States of America. Additional supplies will nevertheless be
required from other sources, particularly closer to the South Asian Subcon-
tinent. In this context, a phosphate fertilizer operation in Uganda, if
established to be economically viable by the proposed engineering project,
would be well positioned.
45.       Demand and Supply in the East African Region.  Only limited data
about the current and potential market for phosphate fertilizers in the
East African region are presently available. Reported actual consumption,
roughly estimated at 120,000 tpy of P205 in 1980 is relatively small, but
improvements in agricultural prices and increases in planted acreages of
crops such as tea, coffee, sugarcane, pineapple, grains, etc., which are
currently underway in the region suggest a potential for increases in the
related requirement of phosphate fertilizers to about 250,000 tpy of
phosphate nutrient in 1990. In addition, phosphate rock consumption in the
region is estimated to grow from the current 280,000 tons of rock to about
320,000 tons by 1985. The principal rock consumer in the area is Tanzania,
which currently imports about 100,000 tpy of rock for its Tanga Ammonium
Phosphate and NPK complex. This regional market could provide an adequate
basis for developing an economically sized phosphate fertilizer facility in
Uganda, although exports to other markets would be necessary during the
initial years of its operation. The proposed engineering project would
therefore study the East African market in detail, as well as potential
markets in the South Asian Subcontinent (India, Bangladesh and Pakistan)
where growth rates in phosphate fertilizer consumption are expected to be
high in the 1980s and 1990s (see Annex IV for details).
46.       Uganda's Phosphate Reserves.  The Sukulu Hills deposits, origi-
nally exploited by TICAF (see paragraph 40) are part of a belt of 10
apatite-bearing deposits along eastern Uganda, stretching from north to
south for about 250 km. Located about 3 km south of the city of Tororo and
about 25 km from Uganda's border with Kenya near the railway line (see IBRD
Map No. 15987 and paragraph 48), the deposits are concentrated in three dry
valleys (known locally as the North, West and South Valleys) cutting deep
into the hills. They are unconsolidated ("residual soil") and fairly
uniform in composition and therefore easy to mine. Phosphate reserves in
the deposits are estimated to be about 200 million metric tons with an
average P205 content of 13% and high amounts of iron and aluminum oxides.
Additional apatite-bearing soils outside the perimeter of the hills enclos-
ing the three valleys, estimated at about 38.4 million metric tons, could
also be mined. Bank Group staff with the help of consultants, reviewed the



- 17 -
available geological data of the deposits, and the logic and methodology
used in calculating the reserves and concluded that the reserve estimates
are reasonable and that a minimum reserve tonnage of 135 million tons could
be considered available for exploitation. The quality of the phosphate
reserves is among the highest in the world, and compares well with those in
Morocco and the United States of America, both in terms of P205 content and
processing characteristics. TICAF's previous production experience has
confirmed the technology and methodology to produce 40% of the P205 apatite
concentrate from these deposits. On the basis of these reserve estimates,
industrial production of phosphate fertilizers (SSP, TSP, etc.) could be
carried out for a period of over 30 years.
47.       Possible Source of Sulphur.  As mentioned above (paragraph 34), a
major objective of the present Government is the rehabilitation of its
industrial activities, including Kilembe's copper mining and processing
operations. Therefore, in August 1981, the Government signed an agreement
with EIB to carry out a detailed engineering study to re-examine and update
existing studies; assess the viability of rehabilitating the copper mining
and smelting operations; and determine the viability of processing the
pyrites stockpiled at Kasese (see IBRD Map No. 15987) to produce cobalt.
This latter objective of the EIB-financed study is of importance to the
proposed rehabilitation of Uganda's phosphate industry since processing of
pyrites to cobalt produces sulfur dioxide that can be converted to sulfuric
acid for use in the phosphate industry. Additionally, sulfuric acid pro-
duction via this route generates a considerable amount of by-product heat
which could provide process heat or utility heat to a phosphate processing
facility. The Association, in appraising the phosphate engineering
project, has discussed with EIB and the Government these linkages between a
possible project for processing Kilembe's pyrites and any possible phos-
phate project. Terms-of-reference for the two engineering projects have
been reviewed by all parties. The Government has set up a Project
Implementation Committee, which includes senior staff from Kilembe Mines,
to ensure proper coordination of the two studies. EIB expects work on the
Kilembe engineering project to begin in May 1982. This timing is very
appropriate since it would allow the consultants on the phosphate engineer-
ing study, who are scheduled to begin work by April 1982, to obtain the
necessary data on pyrites from the Kilembe project consultants.
48.       Transportation.  The most economic way of handling the trans-
portation requirements of full-scale production would be by rail: (i) to
bring the pyrites from Kasese in Western Uganda to the phosphate processing
site at Tororo in Eastern Uganda, should the use of local sulfur prove
economical; and (ii) to transship production output for export via railway
through Kenya. Uganda Railway Corporation is currently only able to
operate in a rudimentary fashion. It is short of working capital, wagons
and track maintenance material and has only limited means of communication
for operating purposes. In addition, one of its principal problems is the
relationship with the Kenya Railways Corporation. Bank Group staff has
programmed economic and sector work to start tackling these problems.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       Background.  The engineering project was brought to the
Association's attention in February 1980 during an industrial recon-
naissance mission. The Government made known the high priority it attaches
to the rehabilitation of the phosphate industry and requested Bank Group
assistance to carry out detailed technical studies and preparation work
necessary to establish a basis for the full exploitation of the Sukulu
Hills deposits. The engineering project was appraised in June 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1982, with the Government
delegation led by Mr. Robert E. Ekinu, Permanent Secretary to the
Treasury. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report for this project. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report and supplemental
data are contained in Annex III.
50.       Project Objectives and Description.  The main objectives of the
engineering project are to determine the commercial, technical, environ-
mental, economic and financial viability of a full-scale phosphate project
in Uganda based on the exploitation of the Sukulu Hills phosphate
deposits. The project would consist of a detailed engineering study, and
technical advisory services to TICAF to assist in supervising the engineer-
ing consultants. The detailed engineering study would include the follow-
ing items.
1. Mining:
a.  assessment of geological data and definition of available
reserves;
b.  selection of appropriate mining methods;
c.  definition of optimal beneficiation process on the basis
of laboratory and continuous pilot plant tests utilizing
representative samples from the deposits; and
d.  evaluation of technical and economic feasibility of
possible recovery of by-products from phosphate rock.
2. Marketing:
a. review of the phosphate fertilizer markets in Uganda,
East Africa, and the Asian Subcontinent;
b. proposal for a strategy for marketing the products in the
target markets; and



- 19 -
c. evaluation of technical and economic aspects related to
the transportation and distribution of fertilizers.
3. Investment:
a. survey of the present condition of the existing TICAF SSP
complex in Tororo (see paragraph 40) in order to evaluate
whether some machinery, equipment and facilities could be
utilized as part of the full-scale project;
b. review of alternatives and definition of scope, selection
of size, product mix, chemical processes and location of
the complex;
c. review of the environmental aspects;
d. recommendations on suitable organization and
administrative arrangements for the management of
project construction and phosphate operations; analysis
of staffing requirements and a training program;
e. evaluation of capital and operating costs; and
f. execution of financial and economic analysis of a
full-scale project.
4. Review of other studies:
review of EIB consultants' analysis of technical and
economic aspects related to sulfuric acid production from
pyrites; least cost location analysis of pyrites
processing facility, including comparison of production
cost of sulfuric acid from domestic pyrites with sulfuric
acid production at the full-scale phosphate plant site
using imported sulfur.
51.       A full-scale investment to revive Uganda's phosphate industry on
an economic scale would likely be in the range of US$120-150 million. In
the light of such large financial requirements, the Government would like
to explore the possibility of foreign phosphate fertilizer manufacturers
participating in a resulting full-scale project. For that purpose, the
project would also include provisions for:
a. review of the terms and conditions of concession agreements
normally offered in international ventures for the
participation of foreign phosphate fertilizer firms in
similar full-scale projects;



- 20 -
b. preparation of a model concession agreement that could be
used as a basis to negotiate with potential foreign partners;
c. review of the existing legislation and guidelines for mining
and recommendation of changes, if necessary; and
d. review of the existing incentive system for foreign
participation and recommendation of changes, if necessary, to
ensure that the Government would maintain control of key
developments in a full-scale investment.
Because of the legal provisions involved, the engineering consultants would
be requested to summarize these issues in a separate report.
52.       Project Cost and Financing.  Detailed cost estimates for the
project are based on fixed fees for the services to be performed by the
engineering consultants and the technical advisory firm; the estimates for
items not covered in the fixed fees were developed by TICAF's General
Manager, UDC staff, the Geological Surveys and Mines Department of the
Ministry of Lands, Minerals and Water Resources, and Kilembe Mines
Limited. All costs were reviewed by Bank Group staff in the light of
experience with similar Bank-financed projects. The total cost of the
project is estimated at US$4.5 million, of which US$4.0 million is in
foreign exchange. The project would be exempt from taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange costs would include: (i) the services of the engineering
consultants to carry out the detailed feasibility study; (ii) the services
of a specialized technical advisory firm to help the Project Unit to
evaluate the work of the engineering consultants; and (iii) the foreign
travel costs and per diem of Project Unit Staff to supervise work to be
carried out by the engineering consultants at their home office. The local
costs would include the salaries of full-time staff and work-related
expenses of the Project Unit, local equipment rental, transportation and
fees of local personnel and operators who would assist the engineering con-
sultants during their field work. Physical contingencies are based on
additional work such as geophysical surveys and drilling, exploration of
other deposits, trial mining and computer programming that might be
required subject to the results of preliminary activities. The base cost
estimates are in January 1982 prices. Physical contingencies for the local
costs are estimated at 15% of the base cost. Price contingencies for the
foreign exchange costs are based on estimated inflation of 8.5% in 1982 and
7.5% per annum in 1983, 1984 and 1985. Price contingencies for the local
component are calculated on estimated annual inflation of 20% in 1982, 15%
in 1983 and 1984 and 12% in 1985. Detailed project costs are contained in
the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
53.       An estimated 213 man-months of foreign consultants (consisting of
189 man-months for the engineering study and 24 man-months for the
technical advisory services) and 255 man-months of local staff would be



- 21 -
required to execute the project. The local staff man-months include four
full-time professional staff for the Project Unit (paragraph 55). The
average cost of the foreign consulting services, including fees, interna-
tional travel and subsistence, is estimated at US$14,200 per man-month; the
average cost of the local staff is estimated at US$530 per man-month. The
average cost of foreign consultants, though high, is within the range of
actual proposals submitted in recent times on similar projects in other
countries involving specialized work of the type included in the project.
54.       The engineering credit of SDR 3.5 (US$4.0) million equivalent
would cover the entire foreign exchange cost of the project. The local
cost (US$0.5 million) would be provided by the Government. The Government
would be required to refinance the credit (Preamble B of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement) should a credit by the Association or a loan by IBRD
be made for a full-scale investment in the phosphate sector.
55.       Project Execution.  The project would be executed by TICAF with
the assistance of the engineering consultants. Given TICAF's current weak-
ness (see paragraph 40), a Project Unit has been considered necessary to
supervise the implementation of the project (Section 3.02 of the draft
Project Agreement). The Project Unit would consist of the following staff
on a full-time basis: a project manager, a phosphate mining and benefi-
ciation engineer, an economist and a financial analyst, all with qualifi-
cations and experience acceptable to the Association.  The Government has
appointed TICAF's present General Manager as the project manager and quali-
fied staff have been hired to fill the remaining positions. The technical
advisory firm would assist the Project Unit to supervise and evaluate the
work of the engineering consultants (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The creation of the Project Unit, the appointment of its staff
and the hiring of the technical advisory firm are conditions of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Bank Group staff considers these provisions necessary and sufficient to
strengthen TICAF under the engineering credit.
56.       The engineering study is expected to take about 31 months to com-
plete from the date of effectiveness of the contract with the engineering
consultants. A schedule of implementation is attached as Annex VI. To
ensure that the objectives of the project are fully and economically met,
it would be executed in two phases. Within 8 months from the start of
work, the consultants would submit to the Government (with copies to the
Association) a report outlining preliminary findings and conclusions of the
Phase I work. Review of and consultation with the Association on this
report, which needs to demonstrate the market potential and the quantity,
quality and continuity of a potentially economic phosphate deposit, would
be a condition of disbursement for Phase II work (Schedule 1, paragraph
2(c) of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreement). Furthermore,
several interim reviews have been built in at key stages to ensure the
achievement of the project's objectives (see Implementation Schedule in
Annex VI).



- 22 -
57.       In addition to the Project Unit and because of the need to coor-
dinate the execution of the engineering project with the EIB-financed
project for the rehabilitation of Kilembe Mines, the Government has estab-
lished a permanent Project Implementation Committee consisting of special-
ized senior staff from TICAF, UDC, Kilembe Mines, and the Ministries of
Lands, Minerals and Water Resources (Geological Surveys and Mines
Department), Industry, Planning and Economic Development, and Finance
(Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Committee
is chaired by UDC's Director of Proiects and Research.
58.       Selection of Consultants and Disbursements.  The selection of
Bearden-Potter of the United States of America as engineering consultants
and SEMA of France as technical advisors was carried out in accordance with
the Bank Group's August 1981 guidelines for the use of consultants (Section
2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement). The Government used a set of
criteria for the selection of the engineering consultants, emphasizing
capability, experience and quality in phosphate engineering. The technical
advisory firm was selected using a set of criteria, emphasizing experience
in areas for which TICAF would need advice for the evaluation of the
engineering consultants' work. The firms were selected from a shortlist of
qualified and experienced firms agreed upon with the Association, and from
whom invitations were invited. Bank Group staff reviewed the proposals
sub7-itted by the consultants, the evaluation process and the proposed con-
ditions of employment and found them satisfactory. To maintain the impetus
of the project, the Government requested and the Association extended, a
PPF advance to cover the initial costs of the consultants prior to credit
effectiveness. These costs would be refinanced from the proceeds of the
proposed credit (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Disbursements from the credit would be made against 100% of
the foreign expenditures. All withdrawal requests would be fully
documented.
59.       Accounts, Auditing, and Reporting.  TICAF's accounts have not
been finalized since 1976 and consequently not audited. However, TICAF has
agreed to furnish to the Association its updated and audited accounts,
including those for the financial year 1980, not later than December 31,
1982 (Section 4.01(a) of the draft Project Agreement). TICAF would keep
separate accounts relating to expenditures under the engineering credit.
These accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and submitted within four months of the end of each financial
year (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Within six months
of the completion of disbursements, TICAF would prepare and submit to the
Association a Project Completion Report analyzing the implementation of the
project and its benefits and costs (Section 2.04(c) of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 23 -
60.       Project Justification and Risks.  On the basis of Bank Group
experience with similar projects in other phosphate producing countries,
there are strong possibilities that an economic phosphate fertilizer acti-
vity could be developed in Uganda. Emerging world production and world
trade patterns favor projects producing intermediates and finished phos-
phate fertilizers near the mine head, as the one envisaged to emerge from
the engineering study. In addition, the Sukulu Hills deposits are con-
sidered one of the highest quality rocks in the world. Relatively simple
mining and upgrading operations and the possibility of local sulfur indi-
cate relatively lower production costs. The engineering study would be the
first important step in providing the necessary information and recommen-
dations for a potential investment in fertilizer production. It would
strengthen TICAF and help the Government to take the decisions necessary
for a revival of its phosphate industry.
61.       The principal risk facing the credit is that security conditions
in Uganda could again deteriorate. This risk has, however, been reduced by
the Government's commitment to restore law and order and its willingness to
respond to the concerns of the donor community. The major risk facing the
project is that if the engineering study were to conclude that a full-scale
project is not technically and economically viable, the investments made
would not be recovered. To minimize this risk, the engineering study has
been divided into two phases with the more costly detailed feasibility
st,dy and basic engineering work on the full-scale project in Phase II,
being initiated only after the preliminary work in Phase I has established
that a full-scale project is economically and technically viable. Several
interim reviews at key stages have been built into the implementation
schedule of the project to ensure that its objectives are met. The
technical assistance provided under the proposed project and the intended
use of the Technical Assistance Credit (No. 1077-UG) to strengthen the
organizations involved are considered appropriate to counterbalance their
weakness. The studies under the project are expected to provide valuable
analyses to address the transportation and above all the railway problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement, and the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.



- 24 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
March 17, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV¶R.AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TYAL            A236.0                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
P.GkiCULTURAL    106.1              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 140.0       210.0     290.0                238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      43.2        88.5      38.7                70.05                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLIATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 6806.0       9806.4   12797.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.2          8.0      11.5                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000'(MILLIONS)                      24.45
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        67.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       28.8        41.6      54.2                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     72.0        98.0     116.9                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        44.4      45.2                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         53.6        52.6      51.7                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND A8OVE                   3.1         3.0       3.1                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.7       3.0                  2.6                     2.8
URBAN                              7.1         7.8       7.0                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH KATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.9         44.6      44.7                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0         16.5      13.6                  19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       3.0                  3.1                     3,2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         3.8      16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         107.0        99.0      89.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0        98.0      91.0                 90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          47.0        55.0      57.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        24.0      26.0                  17.8                   16.1
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.3        21.9      16.0                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0         49.0      53.6                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0       120.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        22.0      35.0                 23.9                   27.4
URBAN                               ,.        88.0     100.0                 55.0                   74.3
RURAL                               ..        17.0      29.0                 18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        76.0      94.0                 26.2
URBAN                               ..        84.0      82.0                 63.5
RURAL                               ..        76.0      95.0                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         14062.0/c   14666.2/c 27598.6              31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9423.87-   2698.o07d4297.5                 3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPI'TAL BED
TOTAL                            695.4       641.2     624.0               1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                             72.2        83.3        ..                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                           1610.5      1827.4        ..               1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..       154.1/d
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.8
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



-26-                                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                          Page  2  of  5
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV/ELRACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         39.0      50.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  65.0        48.0       58.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                32.0        31.0       41.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          4.0       5.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   4.0         6.0        7.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  12.0           7.0        5.0                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMaRY                            31.0         34.0      35.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                          18.0         20.0      26.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        34.9           ..         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          3.0       2.5                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         13.2         23.5      20.8                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          1.4       6.7                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8.0          8.5       3.0                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.1                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3040.2       4207.7    5240.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.1         34.6      34.1                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.4         85.9      83.3                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.6          4.6       5.8                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         42.9      41.0                   41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 58.8         56.8      54.5                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                               31.0         29.3      27.6                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOM1C DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.2                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOGE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagea for each indicator ore population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government establishments only.
May, 1981



- 27 -                                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
OCR-I-STlt  Of SOIA  -tICATMf
)ssp    ithugn  he  ot  o   da. .ro. ..uto.   genrely judged the  ee   sh-ri-t-tn  and teltable, it ehould alec hr totd  bh- they ear not be ite--
TettrocgoP.  ..e .II)th   eaeIutr to   of  he eujo%ontyed()an                          tygophnib e-ht,a bighe- ane.g   jocose  Mhat the  -osny gtoap
ofth isbjctcooty  enep  for ''apta.      utis I   l    onr'  eu   hr   Mideaoa   tb Africa and Middle fEet` teobhteet bacese  of stt
ejtYt of the co lnite      e    -oo   tt-  det  fortIhetlodta..or   S retecnrceoiotre                     am .gthtdcaosdedetteevilbto ofO.
fo.rr. r...ture   marke  en    teoa aden  o            r    ....e fln, 197 idata-           ba  h...otioce-aer.        ..aiye -f5 et1aslenIpemnel   tf
T.     :,z..                                                                  -P.,byatlme   nerhsttt.   ethtaaon    nfdt  prnni- al-   oetf
111,  -d I-p. .,Jdlto  n  totdaa  ate   eng  o                                              .dce ...iite. toaci-
fRlSClnifPli PECPIA. Ana   nrupto   ftomrla   nrg   ua              ta    seoc  ubnboptlmiosa  it  piupalgema   oaeas
and lignite, ratrolaum, named  gee and bydro-, o.uleelad geoheral.. co             en  total heritaltInoa  oryrsra  boP_r            n   ela    e   aant
.d by  -  I. -...                        P"'                         d     -~~~~~~frmhopia.  ivdd  y  h  netc  o  hd
Tota Pnoiaine.efi-fee (houadet W.-           - ha if0Jly  d; lSd, 197n,and liiihItlfh
auml' ugtou979tdIe  fi.. 17,ed17   ea.                                                          the htoeetold  for .cenludida  prurtsee.
ENRGOeNiaMTION tE Rer20-Curtpouainpoatoaaehedo190bef parentsA pcr toot-in all  ra,adrttocsldcnmta
Projcimtciaae  n    otal ..     ~-  j  ic  oms  optm   ftdelesaes                              snoosIed pan,ts.L   -           -i1h.'l   .d d-   .                  ,:tt
to   immtcac  a   ic   neaigmihcutyi                         et pn   ntadoet  fetilntecn  t   nlta)-itt.ubn   tdma 
lenl,ar  fmai  lfeemactnci   -eb itengs  7.  ya60    ra.9 The pare-7                 Ctt        P-1o.lde -dng  nih  alec-1 l to  in~r  -1nty quartr  ae- erenag
ectera foe Isottlity  raea also he ne theme lerele eseamingdeolite in  of tonal, urban, ard rurml decllitgstaapcctinely.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d!~ki..      R
farnil lay sorordete it moose lenel and ,eet familytpianeingh.erfotmebda
ROUATI  ONenyt  bresga   e   foeenn AoeDiVaTtAnaSfATIrSTICSy                                   tTIICATIOR....t.                                                    dih-.
and dfare liny htre d. tt pojetio    pnpfee                                        AdYi 96,17,      99usta   nolmn  Rtn
biairmerrreleioelnete  itar  poolato  threis  n goebeicaPriat scool-  ota,  aleandfealeIree  ona,   alean  feal
ntba behrtisqs tthdetreaataetteaeartrsr-sroimat  of  all... r  and ther prmc                                                                 hea, sprenae   fre en
ma anntn.Ti  I   cindol   fe  friiyrnedo"e  opiayato-g  popslnlon; nueall   tnloa  citidrbn sgd 6-11
in th  yearl.. 1601,  1n97eae0       fAtt  o   etlnreroslce,eade sobati-I.te, mAle..  ad.I female  - Cmue  asIb ahna  estadIr
mann lanel.                                                                              cdtsoe..  tItt ot requires. ...  ..en least,,. fou  yae   f  prvd pimay  tarutie
fame  tatinaryouruenio  istehd-  h   erchrsitiuayppltinpo a  genra. f-                                           nctntotal  or tec  ttann    rtutnsb    ui
Par sq. h. aeiutua  bland   ic- Oomur  aeits  o  agicltral  Ieed                                manly or El     d    P.n      fscode   ntttos
noly;  9i1, 170 en  1978tana.                                                    P P.'- Enermiio-riat adannsn-  oa   tdnt   noldi
lmften   fiC  1970.I ama 199dae                                                               Adult l-insac rate tercon  -.  iert  edletben  te   n    m
dauaitint   aeIigrai    ne           na   rwhrtso   aa   i-aaaotaau   te   dl  poultin    gd 15 yese  and pver.t
fet. poulitnafe195-.19--l,ad  97i-t
Imnunsfo   190- l. 907,ad17-9                                                             asn     astu  thuad too latnt -p-j-1ytcae  omrmemoo
poultne  16.  97,an I17  fdt,                                                         miitryneicas
trd  hah  ae  rr hssn       t  ema dah   paitoueaaEfDnUyerCAdTIONaieele  hnadeeltoy-Altpsn                                                             srn   a   ai
peplatta;196. 171,an  199d-ne.brod cedenomemrelpobittar  innat  ofpeppetoc;aenude d
illhyrase .s..ll    f i ue-psa  aei-age modia1Ia 186, 197l.and-19911moat-.oue-rss aldlabad ldan6i1g
FalrPaea-PI...ctara. an   trtseuaeade)            - Ame   na   fuopee1 Receivers lee  th-sac f.rdiff eIot 1.lh,cftprs far hond fesi
of  irh-ontol  enmaeonar  naiom  o -    nenih. et   PeIPly  lmigporm                      eea   nhin.  psrthtem ppuaiteaudunlaedTesivr
Fe trP-aids-leths tb-      eoofmrid mel-Pecnae  fnte                                          in-ututiaen   tyar   btreine  io_fS  an   a  i   fs
onman ofchild-beritg ag  (15-Ag  ental oh  nee biib-coonrl devica  no      fOeecsear Crcutmito  leer -ouPoPd retlecbol          - Shoebthethceegfirio
is ano--ns  year  -aia. me-hdim toe  pei..,               goode (e.g     l.egron               and mobile. units..  Npi
trae-  of. aug00 -fItdb et  eibeen  cnti  totine   lg.cffe
te   r   nlded.I    Agreattraurie1f7ac   outr  i   asd  n                              AOKFOC
enrgt   quuleeofnt  od   ma;ppleeel ai   amnyprnpn                                            oeing  uplstni all1-        agest.t   ifun.iodona i Ve-inue  ioutriutiarm
per  da.   AvIal  eupplies                                                                                                                             hipcdaci  podct,..pen  It ennerhi;191,190  n  179daa
soperte  end tengee  c snoo.  iee  uppli - saIud  nelicl1fend, amede                    YId teei     Pl   ao   aeasprstg   fine   ao     ee
t  A.,hldlne  S 196i-95  197, iad..1977       4     . dane...  15                        1970and'979dmna
Par cetis enneirof ernean  ermineret den)- Protei  onetef  ofdpr cpit        PerinIraio   Rntmanet I- itl.   ma~lead t~ la- pectin-. 1 ipthn.n
allnateof  1  ree o  tna  pr'ttnparda  ad 1  gem  ofamsa  en          161d 191.an  1919 date. ines are- baed            . on  bL'  pati-dipdi  canes
-pulse pinnate  of 56 11 grema t bt ld he anml  rtan S             heenI tt.  igd-              mfseAg    fg-e  atnmtne1  of1 tePapulstion.  ed  long- nimd tree. A.
etl  Pie   oe;1960-iS,  91And 197079  daa                                                    t    h  ttlAanAfre
tia   dat  derive  from  life 9ndhlss  1960, b1i7tPead.1979 data,p oftb-n-eboldII
at brth;1941  197  and197  data.gend  bt"l  he  nterrete0web1o97i0raba detia
ho nMil      l  Inel   rha Pmd cnrel-  with...aaauehle anossPa to sat a                                                                    TfI..fnrdfebb..la.            I
-craepylinndeteae    acee  emm  catoeee  boS-o---tnn                                  Iaiea RablitiP- encth iomahvl u9  o   astl-  rmmdruad
ann  uhlen thef e   pran rne  bota uls .  bpIthga.enanInayillila                           Rrl dsnv   poveny cenmdlana  isnt-br   terg    e   aLee
pa daagso   banreea -eppuecm.   sa  aheemaa                       tltepreatle-atteneac.ite   eelI   eivdt,th   ua
fanenale or seaadpaet braced moe ste  thee 200 enters trim a harms mr bs  lanai with edinanmean ftc higher roan of living Ia urb.m acShg
' re'eADNURITIO ashnin  lblHeeaai  ens  o.he  es.Cnrrafcn                                      medt"'Yed PtaIsIiaa Rel  abnlt Pvet                          t"cr... taSilectg i -ure
doetbr   oeedadepnatoaepr   fncdayI  fe agnaPnbli.ti.dI.dLd                                                                                                        pIdil
ebe oellmetiem and dimponel, elci nm via bent tenetmame. of(. ht _ eertgndg.r.,th  Y-                                oneaguin l nd.. . teilleslvse
P'd meEevee  bymccbag   yt"               a   h   c   fptplinaAasettil    nlssadPnent Rprms
-tar t   fnc ulaiama.          Cil   .d.d-il    i.
t.   - 4nn.clddlelp   -  nmltbedliddbymae  a'proInephs-Ry11
nteietuiitem.mdialshel ma 61  hLvarelyroeusl
Faultle  artarle  Pces -  -npuaet     I d  Ivie   y  mo  a   entn
male eI    i     gee    nuse,  ratloa             65ac 19a, Mm  19s79ee  arn..                ..    i



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA -. UGANDA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980 a/ = US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980  a/                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Million       %                1967-71    1971-79       1980
GNP at Market Prices              3,536       100.0                 4.4         -1.7       -8.1
Gross Domestic Investment           120         3.4                  4.0       -13.0      135.5
Gross National Savings             -128        -3.6                  3.8
Current Account Balance            -248        -7.0
Export of Goods, NFS                332         9.4                 0.4        -10.6      -22.4
Import of Goods, NFS                572        16.2                -0.1         -7.5       18.0
VALUE ADDED IN 1980 (At 1966 Prices) b/                          GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
USS Million       Z                                                   (USh Million)        (Z of GDP)
1980/81     1980/81     1971/72
Agriculture                        424         51.7              Current Receipts                          3,186         3.1        13.2
Industry                            46          5.6              Current Expenditure                      9,712          9.3        13.2
Services                           350         42.7              Current Surplus                         -6,526          6.2          -
Total                            820        100.0              Capital Expenditure                      4,054          3.9         8.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                       1976      1977       1978       1979         1980
(UShTMillion Outstanding EfndPeriod)
Money Supply                                  4,492    5,787       7,051      10,620       13,905
Bank Credit to Government                     4,790    5,522      7,199        9,198      14,848
Bank Credit to Other Sectors                  1,937    2,885      3,221        3,658       5,849
1976     1977       1978         1979        1980        1981
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                              17.0      13.7       14.0         14.1        13.3
General Price Index (1966 - 100) c/             601    1,133      1,546        4,894       5,474       10,058
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                            46.6      88.5      36.5        216.6         11.9         83.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   32.9      15.3       30.4        27.8        61.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  14.3      48.9      11.6         13.6        59.9
a/  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Bank Atlas (adjusting for the over-
valued exchange rate but not for any underrecording of "magendo" transactions).  The GNP at current prices in US dollars
is derived by multiplying the per capita figure by population.  The gross investment rate is assumed to be thp same as in                s X
in the Uganda shilling estimates.  Given the balance of payments data from page 2, gross national savings is derived as a
residual.
b/  Up-to-date figures on employment and productivity are unavailable.
c/  Kampala low-income cost of living index.  Indices prior to 1979 may be understated as some controlled prices were used in
the calculation of the indices.  Indices for 1980 and 1981 are incomplete as cost-of-living data were not collected from
October 1980 to July 1981.  In particular, the increase in the index for 1980 is grossly understated, especially for the
food component.
not applicable
not available



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA - UGANDA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million   % d/
1978      1979       1980      1981
(US$ Million)                    Coffee                              329      95.4
Cotton                               9        2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                        332        412       332        240         Tea                                   3        0.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                       -458      -391       -572       -470         Tobacco                               1        0.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)                  -126         21      -240      -230          Other Exports                         3        1.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) a/       -12        -25        -8                       Sub-Total                        345      100.0
Balance on Current Account                  -138         -4      -248      -230          Adjustments e/                      -30       -8.6
Total                            315       91.4
Official Grants                                8         27        87         80
Public MELT Loans (net)                       38        104        84         40         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980 a/
Disbursements                              (66)      (145)     (131)      (150)                                               US$ Million
Amortization                              (-28)      (-41)     (-47)    (-110)
Other Items n.e.i. (net)                      41      -261        -89          -          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               612 f/
Overall Balance of Payments                  -36       -134      -166       -110         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed             612
Gross Reserves (end year)                     84         56        22         22
Net Reserves (end year) b/                    34        -18       -85       -205         NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Payment Arrears (end year)                    86        168       267        257                                                         %
Petroleum Imports c/                          43         63       124        130          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                 15.7
Petroleum Exports c/                           -          -         -          -          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                     ..
Total Outstanding and Disbursed               15.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31, 1981)  (US$ Million)
IBRD f/   IDA
Annual Averages         End Period
1979    1980   Jan.-Sept.1981   Oct.1981             Outstanding and Disbursed            25         58
US$1.00 = USh                       7.4686  7.4242      39.8020         78.700            Undisbursed                           1         58
UShl.00 = US$                      0.1339  0.1347        0.0251          0.0127           Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed       26        116
a/  Excludes official grants.
b/ Net of IMF credit and other liabilities.
c/ Uganda imports all petroleum in the form of products and has no petroleum exports.
d/ % of unadjusted merchandise exports.
e/ Includes errors and omissions, and adjustments for valuation, coverage and timing.
f/ Includes Uganda's notional share (15%) of EAC loans.
g/ Debt service payments (amortization and interest) as a percentage of exports of goods and NFS.
not available.                                                                                                           March 16, 1982
o'-4
00
I..
14



- 30 -
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed           8.40    40.73
258-UG   1971    Uganda    Second Education                  7.30          .42
983-UG   1980    Uganda    First Reconstruction
Program                      72.501      59.47
1077-UG  1981    Uganda    Technical Assistance              8.00        8.00
1110-UG  1981    Uganda    Water Supply                                   9.00
Engineering2                  9.00
Total                                    8.40   137.53         86.87
of which has been repaid               8.40      1.39
Total now outstanding                      .00   136.14
Amount sold:                      8.32
of which has been repaid        8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA3            .00   136.14
Total undisbursed                          .00    76.72
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Nil
lIncludes participation of US$17.5 million from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. In addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of $20.0 million
and a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million (approximately $2.6 million
equivalent) has been made available toward the reconstruction program.
2Net of exchange adjustments.
3Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPEMBER 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount (less cancellation)
No.      Year  Borrower    Purpose                 Bank4        Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                          135.80
638-EA   1969    EAHC       Second Harbours         35.00             0.52
865-EA   1972    EAHC       Third Harbours          26.50             0.35
914-EA   1973    EAPTC      Third Telecommuni-
cations             32.50             0.30
1204-EA  1976    EADB       Second Development
Finance             15.00             3.27
Total                                  244.80             4.43
of which has been repaid              65.95
Total now outstanding                  178.85
Amount sold                   24.36
of which has been repaid   24.36       0.00
Total now held by Bank                 178.85
Total undisbursed                        4.43             4.43
4Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
There are currently four projects under execution:
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 258-UG - Second Education Project: US$7.3 million
Credit of June 23, 1971; Effective Date: October 26, 1971;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Delays in project implementation persist due to, inter alia,
transportation difficulties and shortages of local construction materials.
Overall completion is about 80%, with estimated completion time varying
from 6 to 12 months beyond the present closing date, depending on a
satisfactory solution to the above-mentioned problems. Work financed under
the Reconstruction Credit (US$2.5 million) involving replacement of looted
or destroyed materials and equipment are expected to be completed by the
June 30, 1982 Reconstruction Credit closing date. When completed and
facilities provided under the project are in full operation, the
educational objectives of the project are expected to be realized.
RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Credit I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective Date: May 1, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Along with the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million
participation from the Government of the Netherlands, a US$20.0 million EEC
Special Action Credit and a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million equivalent
have been made available to the Government in support of its reconstruction
program. The total amount of about US$95.0 million was to be released in
two tranches. However, changes in the Government and delays in carrying
out agreed financial and economic policy reforms caused delays in the use
of the credit. The closing date was therefore postponed by 18 months to
June 30, 1982 to allow for full disbursement of the proceeds of the credits
and the grant. In June 1981, after the Government adopted policy measures
the Association required, it was agreed that the total amount of the
credits and the grant would be released. The full amount has been
allocated in the meantime; US$20.0 disbursed and an additional US$25.0
committed. It is expected that disbursements will speed up in the next
months.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 1077-UG - Technical Assistance Project: US$8.0
million Credit of January 21, 1981; Effective Date: March 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some progress has been achieved in implementing this line of
credit; the first subproject has been approved and US$25,000 have been
committed. However, implementation is still slow due to continued
technical and administrative problems within MPED.
Credit No. 1110-UG - Water Supply Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: October 5, 1981;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The feasibility studies on expansion of water supply and
sanitation activities in the seven towns are expected to be completed in
February 1982. The contract for employment of management consultants to
prepare the manpower training study is being negotiated. The construction
of six buildings is in progress. Tenders for vehicles are being reviewed
by the Central Tender Board and tenders for water meters are expected to be
invited in November 1981. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was
established and is now adequately staffed besides three vacancies where
efforts to fill them are underway.
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration
of the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States 1
of undisbursed balance of loans to the East African Community Corporations
at October 1, 1977 was approved by the Executive Directors on January 12,
1978 on the basis of recommendations made in a report dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312). Agreements in line with those recommendations were
subsequently signed by each of the Partner States on January 25, 1978. A
portion of the undisbursed balances under two loans (Loan 674-EA - East
African Railways Corporation (now fully disbursed), and Loan 914-EA - East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation) was allocated to Uganda.
Industrial projects in Uganda are also eligible for financing under the
ongoing East African Development Bank Project (Loan 1204-EA). Progress on
implementation of these projects is summarized below. Although the closing
date for Loan 914-EA has expired, since the amount allocated to and
guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly defined under the terms of the
agreement of January 25, 1978, disbursements continued to be made.
1 Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Effective Date; September 19,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items are substantially completed. About
US$32.2 million of the loan has been disbursed to date.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
.million Loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio. About US$11.7 million of the loan has been
disbursed to date. The closing date has been postponed a second time to
June 30, 1982 to allow for completion of the project.



- 35 -                        ANNEX III
UGANDA
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to the Association
and first Assocziation mission:            February 1980
(b)  Appraisal mission:                         June 1981
(c)  Completion of negotiations:                 February 1982
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1982
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
The Association has approved a PPF advance to finance the
initial costs for the engineering consultants (paragraph 58).
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government has established and would maintain a Project
Implementation Committee to coordinate the linkages between the
engineering study and the EIB-financed rehabilitation study of
the Kilembe Mines (paragraph 57).
(b) Conditions of effectiveness would be that TICAF:
(i) would establish and maintain an adequately staffed Project
Unit to supervise the engineering consultants' work
(paragraph 55); and
(ii) would hire a technical advisory firm to help evaluate and
supervise the engineering consultants (paragraph 55).
(c) A condition of disbursement for Phase II would be the review of
Phase I of the engineering study (paragraph 56).



ANNEX IV
-36 -                                 TPage 1 of 8
TTIANMA - phosphate Engineering Project
Terms of Reference For Engineering Study
General Information
1.       Phosphate deposits have long been established in the eastern parts
of Uganda, the most prominent being the Sukulu deposits encompassing the
southernmost of a belt of 10 apatite-bearing deposits of residual soil
stretching from north to south for about 250 kms. Phosphate resources in
the deposits are estimated to be about 200-225 million metric tons with an
average content of 13% P205 and high amounts of iron and aluminum oxides.
A number of geological surveys carried out on the deposits in the past are
available. In March 1980, a preliminary series of beneficiation tests carried
out on a thirty-pound random surface sample assayed 23.4 BPL (10.7% P 0 ),
27.1% Insol, 29.5% Fe 0 , 8.8% A1203, 13.1% CaO and 0.4% MgO. A significant
upgrading was achieved gy magnetic separation (wet and dry), desliming and
anionic-cationic methods of flotation. The concentrate from the combination
of techniques represented 9.5% of the starting weight and assayed 88.2% BPL
(40% P205), 2.2% Insolubles and 1.0% Fe203* The metallurgical recovery of
the phosphatic values was 38.7%.
2.       During the early 1960's, the Uganda Government established the
Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited (TICAF) to develop the
Sukulu Hills deposits for manufacture of SSP for domestic consumption and
export to Kenya and Tanzania. The production capacity of the SSP plant was
about 25,000 tpy of granular ESP (bagged); the production capacity of the
sulfuric acid plant was about 10,000 tons/year. Sulfur (about 4,000 tpy) was
imported through Mombasa, Kenya, by rail. Operations began in 1964 and were
carried out successfully for about 10 years until they began deteriorating in
1974-75 due to lack of spare parts, sudden departures of supervisory personnel
and the general deterioration of the economy. Both plants were finally closed
down in 1977. The existing facilities have been severely damaged by extensive
corrosion, excessive acid leakages and long disuse. A report about the-
rehabilitation of the TICAF sulfuric acid and SSP plants was prepared in 1978
by Thyssen Rheinstahl G.m.b.H. (Germany).
3.       The Government of Uganda now wishes to develop a new phosphate
fertilizer industry based on the Sukulu Hills deposits to meet domestic phosphatic
fertilizer requirements and for export in particular in the East Africa region
and the Asian sub-continent (Pakistan, India and Bangladesh), and is seeking
financial assistance from the World Bank to finance a detailed engineering
study to this end. As a source of sulfur for the proposed new phosphate
fertilizer industry, the Government is considering the use of sulfide gasses
from the processing of pyrites deposits located at Kasese, in southwestern
Uganda. The pyrites deposits, owned by the government-owned Kilembe Mines
Limited, are estimated to be about 1 million tons and could be replenished
from copper mining activities of the Kilembe Mines Limited if the latter's
operations are rehabilitated. Under a separate engineering study for which
the Government has sought financial assistance from the European Investment
Bank (EIB), a detailed feasibility study is being carried out by consultants
to, among other things, determine the viability of rehabilitating the Kilembe
mining operations about 1OKm. from Kasese and the capacity and optimum location
of the processing facility for the pyrites taking into account the sulfuric
acid requirements of any eventual phosphate fertilizer project. The phosphate



ANNEX IV
page 2 of 8
- 37 -
fertilizer engineering study will therefore be required to coordinate closely
with the EIB-financeL engineering study.
Objectives
4.        The Government wishes to contract the services of experienced
specialized consultants to carry out a comprehensive feasibility study on a
phosphate fertilizer project, in accordance with these terms of reference.
The main objectives of the study are the following:
(a) to determine the commercial, technical, financial and economic
viability of a phosphate project in Uganda based on the Sukulu
Hills phosphate deposits. In this connection, the possibility
of using the pyrites at Kasese as a source of sulfur should be
considered; the technical, commercial and economic viability of
any by-product (such as cobalt, nickel, etc.) from the pyrites
should also be examined in consultation with the consultants
carrying out the pyrites processing engineering study;
(b) to provide a comprehensive and documented compilation of all
detailed facts concerning the project which could be presented
to potential equity participants and sources of financing; and
(c) to present an appropriate plan of exploitation and production,
with basic engineering design, machinery and equipment lists,
organization, manpower levels and marketing arrangements to a
degree of detail sufficient for an accurate prediction of costs
and benefits.
5.        The consultants will evaluate the viability of a phosphate fertilizer
project based on the projected market potential in the East Africa and Asian
sub-continent regions, and the availability, quality and continuity of the raw
materials and investigate through sensitivity analysis the merits of different
project sizes and product mixes in order to determine the optimal project size
which would maximize the economic benefits of the project to. Uganda.
6.        The consultants should carry out inter alia preliminary basic design
and engineering work to enable it to prepare realistic (i.e., sufficient
accuracy to permit subsequent investment decision) capital and operating cost
estimates for the project, including the mining and fertilizer manufacturing
facilities.
7.        To ensure that the objectives of the study are fully met, the con-
sultants would provide the services of highly qualified experts with satisfactory
experience in both phosphate mining and phosphatic fertilizer processing. If
the consultant firm specializes in mining operations, it would be required to
consider associating itself with a firm specialized in phosphate fertilizer
manufacturing operations, and vice versa. An experienced expert in pyrites
processing will also be required to be included in the team. Joint ventures
are desirable.



ANNEX IV
- 38 -                               Page 3 of 8
Schedule of Implementation
8.       It is expected that the consultant's work will take about 31 months
to complete from the date of contract award. Within 8 months from the start
of work, the consultants shall submit to the Government of Uganda (with copies
to the World Bank) a report outlining preliminary findings and conclusions.
Subsequently, it is proposed to have several interim reviews at key stages of
the execution of the study, as agreed with the Government of Uganda, in order
to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the study. The work under the
study is divided in two phases. Phase II will be initiated only after Phase
I has proven the market prospects, and the quantity, quality and continuity
of economic phosphate deposits and has been approved by the Government in
consultation with the World Bank.
Scope of Work
9.       The specific areas to be covered by the feasibility study shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
A. Market and Marketing Aspects
(i) Review all available information and conduct detailed analysis
of past consumption in Uganda, the neighboring potential markets
(including Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Sudan,
eastern Zaire and Mozambique) and Pakistan, India and Bangladesh
for Uganda phosphate either as rock, intermediate phosphoric
acid or finished fertilizer;
(ii)  Prepare phosphate demand and supply projections for the Last
Africa region and the Asian sub-continent for 15 years on a
country-by-country basis. Analyze supply and demand balances;
(iii) Prepare import/export matrices on international phosphate trade
on a country-by-country basis and identify the importance of
Uganda phosphates in the future international trade with-
particular emphasis on the East Africa regional market and the
Asian sub-continent;
(iv) Review and analyze all available information on current and
prospective phosphate prices, transporation costs, likely sources
of supply to prospective markets; and
(v) Assesc likely landed Drices of Uganda phosphates from the project
site to potential markets (in particular the East Africa region and
the Asian sub-continent) and compare them with projected import
prices from competitive sources. Assess the importance of other
factors affecting demand, such as quick response to orders,
quality, merchandising, etc.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
B. Availability of Phosphate Raw Materials
(i) Review all available geological information on known phosphate
deposits in Uganda;
(ii) Study the potential sources of raw material for a phosphate
project, including the already known deposits at Sukulu Hills
and other promising deposits in the environs. Review all
available data and then propose, and thereafter conduct or
coordinate the execution, as appropriate, of any supplementary
localized geophysical surveys that may be necessary to (i) fully
prove the quantity, quality and continuity of deposits as
required to sustain an economic phosphate fertilizer processing
plant on the basis of internal consumption in Uganda and potential
exports determined in Section A above, and (ii) gather data,
propose and carry out any necessary testings to determine the
most suitable mining method.
C. Availability of Domestic Sources of Sulfur
(i) In close coordination with consultants carrying out the pyrites
processing study being financed by EIB, review all available data
on pyrites stored at Kasese to determine the quality and quantity
of sulfur in pyrites and evaluate the proper process, including
detailed process description, for sulfuric acid and by-product
production based on project size determined in Section B above;
(ii) Determine by means of least cost analysis on a present value basis
using a range of opportunity cost of capital between 10-15% the
optimum location for a facility to process the domestic pyrites
to produce sulfuric acid (and by-product) in reliable quantities
and quality consistent with the economic size of the phosphate
fertilizer production established in Section B above. Locations
considered shall include but not be limited to Kasese,Jinja and
Tororo. All costs associated with each location (including any
special transportation and handling facilities and equipment
required) and any particular benefits, such as energy surplus from
sufficient acid production, and penalties, such as need for
utilities unique to the location, should be clearly identified
and detailed; and
(iii) On the basis of the capital, operating,utility and infrastructure
costs associated with the production of sulfuric acid from pyrites
at the optimum location, determine, by comparison with c.i.f.
price of imported sulfur the most economic source of sulfur
supply for phosphate operation. The determination shall include
evaluation of reliability of sulfur supply.



ANNEX IV
- 40 -                            Page 5 of 8
D. Transportation and Distribution
(i)  Survey the existing transportation network and other aspects
related to transportation, distribution, handling facilities
and other infrastructures for raw materials, intermediate
product and finished fertilizers in Uganda and East Africa.
Recommended specific arrangements as appropriate to the re-
quirements of the project.
Phase II
10.      Phase II will be executed only after work under the Phase I has
proven the quantity, quality and continuity of a potentially economic phosphate
deposit and the market potential. Phase II will include the following.
E.  Development of Appropriate Phosphate Mining Methods and Facilities
Based on the proven phosphate deposits, market prospects, transpor-
tation and distribution, and after receiving approval to proceed
further from the Uganda Government (in consultation with the World
Bank):
(i)  Identify the possible geological and mining technical problems
that may affect mining operations and the possible corrective
actions and solutions to overcome them. For this purpose, trial
mining operation should be carried out in order to enhance
geoLogical knowledge as well as to obtain bulk samplings of ore
for processing tests;
(ii) Determine the most adequate economic and technically proven
method for mining the phosphate ores;
(iii) Prepare a conceptual mining plan, production schedule and a layout
of all the facilities which would be required for the mining of
the phosphate ore;
(iv) Carry out preliminary design and engineering work to enable the
selection and sizing of all major machinery and equipment which
would be needed for the mining, storage and transport of phosphate
ore to the processing plant; and
(v)  Prepare preliminary estimates of capital costs and operating costs
for the phosphate mine.
F. Phosphate Beneficiation and Processing
(i) Utilize representative samples from phosphate rock deposits for
the realization of extensive beneficiation tests, on laboratory
and continuous pilot plant scale, in order to determine the optimal
beneficiation process for maximizing the material and metallurgical



ANNEX IV
- 41 -                           Page 6 of 8
recovery of the run of mine, for upgrading the P205 content of
the ore and for improving the technical quality of the rock.
(ii)  Carry out, on laboratory and continuous pilot plant scale,
acidulation and fertilizer production tests in order to verify
the technical suitability of the beneficiated rock as raw material
for a phosphate fertilizer production, including phosphoric acid,
SSP, TSP and ammonium phosphates;
(iii)  Determine the optimal product mix, project scope, chemical
processes, plant capacity, size and location of the Fertilizer
Complex that would maximize the project benefits; due account
should be taken of availability of infrastructure and utility
reouirements and whether the sulfuric acid requirement is to be
supplied domestically by processing the Kasese pyrites-or through
import of sulfur or by a combination of the two options;
(iv)  Carry out a detailed survey of the conditions of the existing
production facilities in TICAF's Tororo plant and evaluate the
technical and economic feasibility of including, after proper
rehabilitation, such facilities in the Fertilizer Complex
configuration;
(v) Carry out preliminary basic design and engineering work to enable
the selection and sizing of all major equipment required for
the processing plant and ancillary facilities; and
(vi)  Prepare preliminary estimates of capital cost and operating cost
for the beneficiation plant, the phosphate Fertilizer Complex
and ancillary facilities.
G. Utilities, Infrastructure and Environmental Impact
(i)  Determine the project's utility requirements and recommend
optimal supply arrangements for the processing plants and mine
(such as electric power, water, fuel, etc.). Due consideration
should be given to expected demand and supply balances in the
country for some of the inputs, such as fuel oil; availability
and the quality of water should be studied;
(ii)  Determine the infrastructure needs of the project (such as access
roads, railways, township, etc.);
(iii)  Determine the capital and operating costs for the utilities and
infrastructure required by the project;
(iv)  analyze the environmental impact of the project, such as the
effect of beneficiation tailings, phosphogypsum waste,
fluorinated effluents, sulfur dioxide emissions, and recommend
control and other devices that will ensure that the project
would be constructed and operated in accordance with international
and locel standards.



ANNEX IV
- 42  -                          Page 7 of 8
(v) Evaluate possible utilization of by-products, such as
phosphogypsum use in local cement industry;
H. Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
(i) Propose arrangements for project design, detailed engineering,
procurement, construction, commissioning and operations,
including guarantees and bonuses/penalties for process performance,
schedules, specific consumption, etc.;
(ii)  Design suitable organizational and administrative arrangements
for the efficient management and supervision of project construc-
tion and operations, including a detailed assessment of needs of
foreign staff and consultants by categories and by duration;
(iii)  Indicate total staffing requirements for the mining, processing
and other operations, broken down by categories as appropriate,
to identify sources and plan training program; and
(iv)  Develop a practica-l economic and expedient plan for the implemen-
tation of the project, and draw up a realistic and detailed time
schedule for project implementation.
I. Capital and Operating Costs
(i) After an interim review, on the basis of the findings in Sections
E and F above, provide a detailed capital cost for the project,
including mining, processing, utilities, infrastructure, working
capital and interest during construction, all with a breakdown of
cost items between local and foreign exchange costs. The cost
estimate should have sufficient accuracy on the basis of a
preliminary design and engineering work carried out by the consul-
tant to enable investors to make an investment decision on the
subsequent project; provide an explanation on the assumptions
used in the estimation;
(ii)  Provide estimates of operating costs (including maintenance and
transportation to the Tororo railhead) for the project, with
detailed breakdown. The estimate should be based on both local
and international prices.
J. Equity Financing and Legal Aspects
(i)  Discuss possible alternative sources of financing for the project,
including equity, loans and suppliers credits and the terms and
conditions under which this financing could be secured;
(ii)  Discuss the terms and conditions of standard concession agreement
normally offered in international ventures for the participation
of foreign phosphate fertilizer firms in projects similar to the
proposed project;



ANNEX IV
- 43 -                           Page 8 of 8
(iii) Recommend guidelines for appropriate mining regulations;
(iv) Recommend a series of proposed incentives, changes in existing
legislation, and other measures that could be taken to induce
potential foreign partners to participate in the project and
to ensure that the Government will maintain control of key
developments of the project;
(v) Prepare a model concession agreement that could be used as a
basis to negotiate the participation of a foreign partner;
K. Financial and Economic Analysis
(1) Evaluate the financial viability of the overall project on the
basis of discounted cash flow projections and internal financial
rate of return calculations. The basic assumptions used in the
financial evaluation should be fully explained. The evaluation
should include a risk analysis to evaluate the sensitivity of
the project to critical factors;
(ii) Evaluate the economic viability of the overall project on the
basis of internal economic rate of return. For this purpose,
all inputs and outputs should be evaluated at their economic
opportunity cost, rather than at domestic market prices which
may reflect market imperfections. For internationally tradable
goods, CIF international prices can be used as representative
opportunity costs. Appropriate risk analyses should also be
made; the assumptions used in the evaluation should be fully
explained;
(iii) Prepare projected financial statements (Balance Sheet, Income
Statements and Cash Flows) for 15 years, in current prices in
US$;
(iv) Evaluate the impact of the project on the region of the country
in which the project is located and identify direct and indirect
social and economic benefits. Consider possible changes in
some of the parameters of the project and its infrastructure
that could have favorable impact on the region. Analyze the
social and economic benefits and costs of these changes in order
to permit a decision on the desirability of executing them.
Industry Department
March 1982



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA - PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PRIJE('-
SCOPE OF WORK FOR TECHNICAL ADVISORY FIRM
Background
1.        The Government of Uganda wishes to rehabilitate its phosphate
fertilizer industry based on phosphate deposits at Sukulu Hills, near
Tororo. Phosphate operations were previously carried out by the
state-owned Tororo Industrial Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited (TICAF).
TICAF's operations, which consisted of 25,000 tons per year production of
granular SSP were carried out successfully for 10 years until they were
shut down in 1977 due to lack of spare parts, sudden departures of
supervisory personnel and general deterioration of the economy.
2.        The Government has decided to contract the services of an
engineering consulting firm to provide engineering services, including
assessment of domestic and export market for phosphate products (rock,
intermediate phosphoric acid and finished phosphate fertilizers);
confirmation of quality and quantity of phosphate materials; review of
economics of using local sources of sulphur; beneficiation, basic
engineering, and project implementation arrangements.
3.        At the request of the Government, the International Development
Association (IDA) is considering providing financial assistance to carry
out the engineering project. A Project Unit headed by the General Manager
of TICAF has been established to supervise the engineering project.
Objectives
4.        The Government has decided to engage the services of a consulting
firm to act as "Technical Advisors" to the Project Unit. The technical
advisors are not expected to duplicate the work of the engineering
consultants, they will rather work closely with Project Unit staff and
report directly to the Project Unit manager.
5.        The Technical Advisory firm is expected to supply five
specialists with substantive experience in four main areas: phosphate
geology; phosphate mining, sulphuric acid production from pyrites,
fertilizer production, and marketing. In addition, other specialists may
be called upon to provide other specialized advice as needed. A specialist
who will coordinate the provision of the technical advice will also be
required. It is anticipated that most of the advice would be needed for
short periods, primarily in Uganda, but on some occasions in the offices of
the engineering consultants overseas.



- 45 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
6.        The specialists provided by the Technical Advisory firm should be
highly qualified and with considerable experience in the preparation of
detailed engineering studies and execution of large phosphate fertilizer
complexes of similar nature.  The phosphate geologist should be highly
qualified with extensive practical experience in apartite-bearing residual
soils and terrains in a tropical environment. The mining engineer should
have thorough knowledge and extensive experience in surface phosphate
mining operations subject to seasonal rains. The sulphuric acid production
specialist should be a highly qualified chemical engineer with extensive
practical experience in sulphur production, preferably from pyrites and
involving extraction of valuable by-products such as cobalt and nickel.
The fertilizer production specialist should have extensive practical
experience in phosphate beneficiation and processing. The marketing
specialist should have considerable experience in fertilizer marketing, in
particular in the export market to developing countries; extensive
experience in fertilizer marketing arrangements and transportation
requirements in East Africa and the Asian subcontinent is desirable.
Scope of Work
7.        The specific areas where advice of the specialists will be
required shall include:
(a) assistance to the Project Unit in the supervision of the
engineering project;
(b) comments on the Phase I work of the engineering consultants
with respect to the scope and configuration recommended for
detailed study in the Phase II work;
(c) comments on the appropriateness of the mining plan,
beneficiation processes, and detailed design of the project
in the Phase II work;
(d) advise on any other matters concerning project design,
implementation, etc. that the Project Unit may request from
time to time.
Industry Department
March, 1982



UGANDA - PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Months   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12 13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21 22 23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31
Preliminary Meetings                                          -
A - Market and Marketing
B - Phosphate Survey                         _
C -Sulfur SurveyI
D - Transportation Distribution             _   _
Preparation of I Phase Report                                                                      I                                                i
Discussion and Decision                                       _
E - Phosphate Mining                                                                                                                i
F - Beneficiation Tests                                                    - _      _   _   _
G - Utilities - Infrastructure- - -- -
H -Project Implement Arrangement
I - Capital and Operating Costs
J-K - Equity Financing and
Legal Aspects- -
Financial and EconomicI
Analysis                                                                                                          I
Preparation of Final Report                             I
Discussion and Final Conclusion                         I   |
_   I   | { _ _ _ _ _ _ _  1  _ _ _   I I I I II!III I|
'1o Phase    1st intei-im review       Evaluation      2nd interim review     11  Phase   3rd interim review
of Phase 110Phs
8 months                                  Work                                23 months
World Bank-23356



IBRD 15990
30-           Sl                {                \ 4               t    Xi                            OCTOBER t961
Oil OUTI
(A F R ' c A                                                   (                                          Ojibi                 ndwi
t''I''''''fJf (,-J V   (          k                             rV                                <                                  '' /AdJ
V   . t   i  s  u\D )A   N1     \                ~~~~~~E Ti  H    I  O0       I   A               g  
Moiecol fl                    Awo                            0  M A        A
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E N                                                     j      RCAN ,s           
-~~j                                                                                                                          /
N.i                                          /
Z A  I             uov R E; K,4                                                                               UGANDA
Ge;M n         PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING PROJECT
i      t   ) /Meloit  TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK
~-A ;)yyCr N A Nt _QA  N                      (                          I A \\>teom- Moin roods
Railroacds
i    _/ B  <    Ry   >   \ _ r e    l     l           T >" 0                         _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ivers
j    National copitals
I    Major ports
)  O JJ/orortJ \o) <g   9esnloto,  _ Iternational bouodaries
-/f  Pyrites Locotion
K.-                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phosp6ate Locatio~ns
L   Proboble Foctory Site
|  I   I   0  t<; C ;>  + b         A                  /             5  *;       .5ftileis Cf    l¢~~~~~Mu, 0  10    200f   3no    400   50fO
t   \   <  ,{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o th Zodr Io>x  i>>f o. .e.orJt to ..twhich if>S"t,t, cOaOod  Th f^^daoeretioes ccl o  o
-V=                 ,               gbury  t             *    t        Lel aM'fW                   ooctsntot-ot
M       e"     h  T S W A N            f St e tot oeJt5p
5OTSWANA         K455                                                                            2etrs0         00       40       60






_______________________________________________                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRO  15987
PHOSPHATE ENGiNENM  PROJECT                       =      :                  A                I                    =  / /K       K I" 1T                        1
PROJECT LOCATIONS
-1  Ph p18. d.p08h                                                      N1:Ze MId, r  3f-Ox   ,.nbl 
tafl!_ys                                                                                                                                K E N Y A
+   Intmahmsoirport~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           I
01ihoroirporI dL 
= 5100111i11                      f                [ f        ,/ /                        K LPel=  )IV -S}    NP;AAIJ(   
;Zatd tast EIiIp                                                               1      K                                               M/;t-
bol om                                [l
_         _Z A   R   _ _  _ A                   7                           ,R, E
0~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ _ ,21_
ZAIRE   /                     "           ~         -                                     '~~81-1,B%IE
MINT~~~~II
(. ,: j   n m   ru N   ,  :   l  /    <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  1
- Savez ll 9   - -          V              r-%5t t-44e 1 $FCEf7tPI; i                      ;{C S g  W ;)                    I°~-4r
FX ;/PFt4tS \ f /' // ji |N I A



