                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000901




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-71810)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 74.3 MILLION
                        (US$ 82.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                                TRANSELECTRICA

                                      FOR AN

                        ELECTRICITY MARKET PROJECT




                                   April 22, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 2009)

                    Currency Unit = Leu (plural Lei)
                             1.00 = US$ 0.34
                            US$ 1.00 = 3 Lei

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANRE          - Autoritatea Nationala de Reglementare in domeniul Energie
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
DAM           - Day-Ahead Market
EMP           - Environmental Management Plan
EU            - European Union
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
ICR           - Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR           - Implementation Status Review
OPCOM         - Societatea Comercial Operatorul Pieei de Energie Electric
PCCB          - Piaa Centralizat a Contractelor Bilaterale
PRG           - Partial Risk Guarantee
QAG           - Quality Assurance Group
Transelectrica - Compania Nationala de Transport al Energiei Electrice
TSO           - Transmission System Operator




                     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                    Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
                Project Team Leader: Doina Visa
                  ICR Team Leader: Kari Nyman

                                              ROMANIA
                                 Electricity Market Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 10
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 12
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 13
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 14
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 18
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 21
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 22
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 23
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 26
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Electricity Market
Country:                Romania               Project Name:
                                                                    Project
Project ID:             P081406               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71810
ICR Date:               04/29/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             TRANSELECTRICA
Original Total
                        USD 82.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 94.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Transelectrica
OPCOM
ANRE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/23/2002    Effectiveness:                          01/08/2004
                                                                             08/10/2006
Appraisal:             03/10/2003    Restructuring(s):
                                                                             04/11/2008
Approval:              06/12/2003    Mid-term Review:      06/30/2005        02/28/2005
                                     Closing:              06/30/2008        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                           100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regional integration                                            Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                               Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                   Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:      Doina Visa                         Kari J. Nyman
ICR Team Leader:          Kari J. Nyman
ICR Primary Author:      Kari J. Nyman



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To develop a well-functioning wholesale electricity market with the aim of: (a) putting in
place a transparent and predictable commercial and regulatory framework and a power
exchange that will facilitate electricity trading within a competitive national, regional and
eventually European market; and (b) improving the efficiency and reliability of the
transmission system in order to support trading and supply electricity at least cost to
consumers. A well-functioning wholesale electricity market is an integral component of
Romania's strategy to attract and sustain private sector participation in power sector
renewal, especially for the refurbishment of power distribution and generation assets, and
to develop a more efficient and increasingly competitive power sector.



                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target          Completion or
                                                documents)        Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Electricity Market: OPCOM Power Exchange is established and developed as
                reflected by its increasing share in Romania's total electricity supply.

                                            Power Exchange                     OPCOM Power
Value           OPCOM Power                                                    Exchange
quantitative or Exchange to be              accounts for at                    accounted for 22%
Qualitative)    developed.                  least 15% of total
                                            supply in 2007.                    in 2007 and 25% in
                                                                               2008.
Date achieved 05/20/2003                    06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Original targets exceeded.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Service Regulation: Multi-year tariff regulation established for transmission
                (Transelectrica) and the power distribution companies.
                                            Multi-year tariff
                                            regulation                         This objective was
                                                                               accomplished in
Value           Transelectrica and power established for                       December 2005 and
quantitative or distribution under ad-hoc transmission and                     repeated for the
Qualitative)    short-term cost-of-service distribution.(Trans
                regulation.                 electrica) and the                 second 5-year

                                            power distribution                 regulatory period in

                                            companies.                         December 2007.

Date achieved 05/20/2003                    06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This objective was accomplished. In addition, Transelectrica successfully listed

achievement)    and five discoms successfully privatized under this new regulatory framework.

Indicator 3 :   Rehabilitation: Substations (Fundeni and Iernut) rehabilitated under the project
                are operational and their performance meets design parameters.
                                                                               The two original
                                                                               substations
                                            Two substations                    (Fundeni and
                                            operational in line                Iernut) completed
Value           Two substations (Fundeni with design                           by June 2008, two
quantitative or and Iernut) to be           parameters                         others (Bacau and
Qualitative)    rehabilitated.              including                          Roman) by
                                            efficiency and                     December 2008 and
                                            reliability.                       the fifth (Suceava)
                                                                               completed in March
                                                                               2009.
Date achieved 05/20/2003                    06/30/2008                         12/31/2008



                                                 iii

Comments
(incl. %        Original target exceeded - three additional substation (Bacau, Roman and

achievement)    Suceava) added to the project scope and completed.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Power Exchange accounts for at least 5% of total supply in 2005 and 10% in
                2006 (and 15% in 2007).
                                                                              OPCOM Power

Value           OPCOM Power                                                   Exchange

(quantitative   Exchange to be             At least 15% for                   accounted for 7% in

or Qualitative) developed.                 2007.                              2005, 10% in 2006,
                                                                              22% in 2007 and
                                                                              25% in 2008.
Date achieved 05/20/2003                   06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Original targets exceeded each year.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Service Regulation: Transelectrica and the power distribution companies are
                under multi-year price-cap tariff regulation.
                                           Transelectrica and

                Transelectrica and power   the power
Value                                      distribution                       This objective was
(quantitative   distribution under ad-hoc  companies are                      accomplished in
or Qualitative) short-term cost-of-service
                regulation.                under multi-year                   December 2005.
                                           price-cap tariff
                                           regulation.
Date achieved 05/20/2003                   06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Original target accomplished.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Rehabilitation of substations.
                                                                              The two original
                                                                              substations
                                                                              (Fundeni and
                                                                              Iernut) completed
Value           Two substations (Fundeni   The two                            by June 2008 and
(quantitative   and Iernut) to be          substations                        two others (Bacau
or Qualitative) rehabilitated.             rehabilitated by
                                           June 2008.                         and Roman)
                                                                              completed and the
                                                                              fifth (Suceava)
                                                                              completed in March
                                                                              2009.
Date achieved 05/20/2003                   12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments        Original targets exceeded.



                                                iv

(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived             DO                    IP                Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1     12/04/2003       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/04/2003       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/28/2004       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     11/09/2004       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     5.34
  5     03/23/2005       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     7.87
  6     06/21/2006       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    42.49
  7     05/05/2007    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory                57.46
  8     06/26/2007    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory                59.38
  9     12/10/2007    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory                65.39
  10    06/03/2008    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory                82.05
  11    12/18/2008    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory                93.46



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

 Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
                PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                              DO      IP    in USD
                                            millions
   08/10/2006       N          S       S       43.57    Addition of components.
   04/11/2008       N         HS      HS       74.95    Extension of the Closing Date.




                                         v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

After almost a decade of uneven reform efforts in the 1990s, the Government that took office in
Romania in December 2000 began the reforms needed for a successful economic transition and
accession to the European Union (EU). The 2001-2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
presented two lending scenarios. Had Romania reverted to pursuing a hesitant pace of reforms,
Bank Group assistance would have been very limited, centered on a few poverty-focused
interventions (the low case). However, as Romania had accelerated its reforms by late 2002
(when the project was added into the CAS), the CAS was in the high case and the Bank Group
was supporting a broad set of structural and sectoral reforms to accelerate growth through private
sector development and the strengthening of public sector institutional capacity, and pave the way
for Romania's eventual accession to the EU, in addition to an enhanced program of poverty-
focused interventions. In the power sector, the Bank was supporting reforms in the sector's
institutional, regulatory and governance framework and the Government's privatization agenda.
The project would provide further support to reaching these objectives and facilitate Romania's
accession to the EU.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective was to develop a well-functioning wholesale electricity
market with the aim of: (a) putting in place a transparent and predictable commercial and
regulatory framework and a power exchange that will facilitate electricity trading within a
competitive national, regional and eventually European market; and (b) improving the efficiency
and reliability of the transmission system in order to support trading and supply electricity at least
cost to consumers. A well-functioning wholesale electricity market is an integral component of
Romania's strategy to attract and sustain private sector participation in power sector renewal,
especially for the refurbishment of power distribution and generation assets, and to develop a
more efficient and increasingly competitive power sector.

The project was implemented by Transelectrica (Romania's grid company and power system
operator), OPCOM (its subsidiary, Romania's power market operator), and ANRE (regulatory
agency for electricity and heat). The following project output indicators were approved to
monitor their performance in project implementation:

    · The new electricity trading regime is designed, market designs are implemented,
         OPCOM is operating the day-ahead market through its Power Exchange and
         Transelectrica is operating the electricity balancing mechanism;

    · ANRE has issued regulations and the first set of price-cap tariffs for transmission and
         distribution; and

    · Transelectrica has commissioned the two substations rehabilitated under the project.




                                                   1

The corresponding project outcome/impact indicators were approved:

    · An initial set of long-term contracts (vesting contracts with declining volumes) are in
         place and registered with OPCOM by end-2004, OPCOM Power Exchange (a well-
         functioning spot market) is established by end-2004, accounting for at least 5% of total
         supply by end-2005, 10% by end-2006, and 15% by end-2007; and ancillary services are
         settled through Transelectrica's balancing mechanism;

    · Transelectrica and the power distribution companies are providing "common-carrier"
         transmission services and distribution use-of-system services under price-cap tariff
         regulation by mid-2005; and

    · Substations rehabilitated under the project are operational and their performance meets
         design parameters, so that power transmission interruptions and related supply
         curtailments in the Bucharest and Transylvania regions of the country are avoided.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Project development objectives were not revised. Original key indicators were monitored; in
addition other indicators were also used to complement them.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD stated that "all electricity consumers in the country will benefit from a more cost-
effective and efficient power supply" and elaborated as follows: "A well-functioning power
system is needed to attract investments and enhance the competitiveness of the Romanian
economy. A well-functioning power market is necessary for attracting and sustaining private
sector participation in the power sector, especially for the refurbishment of power distribution and
generation assets, and facilitating electricity trading within a national, regional and eventually
European market. Market liberalization is an EU requirement and therefore the development of a
power market will also facilitate Romania's accession to the EU. All electricity consumers in the
country will benefit from a more cost-effective and efficient power supply. Benefits can also be
expressed effectively by considering the counter-factual, what would happen in the absence of the
project. At the level of project investments, in the absence of the investment components at
Fundeni and Iernut, the two existing substations, already beyond their economic life, would not
be able to continue to provide reliable transmission service. Power supply to the capital and
Transylvania regions of the country would be severely curtailed with the resulting loss of
economic activity and adverse social impacts. Without a well-functioning electricity market,
Romania's power reforms would be undermined in key areas (including privatizations,
investments, efficiency improvements and competitiveness). Power supply would deteriorate,
leading to loss of competitiveness and lower growth. In the absence of a well-functioning
electricity market meeting EU's market liberalization requirements, Romania's accession to the
EU would be jeopardized." This broad statement of benefits and beneficiaries was not revised
during implementation - and remains valid in 2009.




                                                   2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had three executing agencies and accordingly three parts: Transelectrica (Part A of
the Project), ANRE (Part B) and OPCOM (Part C). The following five components were
originally approved:

    · Part A ­ Transelectrica: (1) Rehabilitation of the Fundeni and Iernut substations; (2)
         Engineering and Supervision Services; and (3) Institutional support (design, pilot testing
         and implementation of a real-time electricity balancing mechanism;

    · Part B - ANRE: Establishment of a regulatory framework; and

    · Part C - OPCOM: Design, pilot testing and implementation of the OPCOM Power
         Exchange.

1.6 Revised Components

The five original components listed in Section 1.5. were all retained in the project scope and
implemented. Two components were added to the scope of the project during implementation.

The scope of Part A was expanded by adding a fourth component, to support the upgrading of
Transelectrica's Gutinas - Bacau - Roman Nord ­ Suceava transmission system from 220 kV to
400 kV by financing the rehabilitation of the Bacau, Roman and Suceava substations. Gutinas
substation was already under rehabilitation being financed by the Nordic Investment Bank (it was
originally expected to be financed under the project). The transmission lines (the wires) had been
built for 400kV operation from the beginning.

The scope of Part C was expanded by adding a second component, to support the development of
OPCOM's capability to provide market services to the regional electricity market in South East
Europe.

1.7 Other significant changes

The addition of the two new components listed in Section 1.6. into the project scope was made
possible by the significant savings realized by Transelectrica in the procurement of the Fundeni
and Iernut substations. [The original project was completed at Euro 64.9 million, at 67% of the
original cost of about Euro 96.2 million.] Transelectrica requested that, instead of canceling the
savings, it be allowed to use the savings to finance these new components. The request was
examined during the project mid-term review and the proposed new components were found to be
consistent with the objectives of the project. Transelectrica's formal proposal followed. It was
approved by the Country Director and the loan agreement was amended in August 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Transelectrica, OPCOM and ANRE prepared the project, with Bank support. Transelectrica
engaged consulting firms, with its own funds, to help prepare feasibility studies for Fundeni and



                                                  3

Iernut. The same consultants assisted with tender documents. ANRE, OPCOM and
Transelectrica also received support from other sources, including ANRE from EU, DFID and
USAID; OPCOM from EU; and Transelectrica from EU, EIB and EBRD. This support
facilitated their project preparation work.

The project objective was ambitious and the design was complex, with three executing agencies
and five components. Quality at entry is rated highly satisfactory: (1) Feasibility studies, public
consultations and environmental management plans (EMPs) were completed. EMPs were cleared
by the Bank and placed in the InfoShop. Stakeholders participated in the public consultation
process of project investments, which is a standard requirement under Romanian environmental
policies and procedures. Transelectrica's EMPs document the consultations. Copies of draft
EMPs were made available to the public at the project sites ahead of consultation meetings, and
all landowners around the project sites were also contacted in person; (2) Contractor pre-
qualification for Part A (Transelectrica's component) had been launched. Technical
specifications were being prepared and tender documents were ready for release by the time the
ongoing pre-qualification process was completed and the list of prequalified contractors was
available; (3) Consultants for Part B (ANRE's component) were selected and fielded. Kick-off
meetings took place during project appraisal in March 2003, ahead of the project approval by the
Bank in June 2003; and (4) The request for expressions of interest for Part C (OPCOM's
component) had been issued and the submissions were received just before project approval. The
request for proposals including final version of the terms of reference for OPCOM's technical
assistance component was under preparation (and was ready for release by the time the consultant
shortlist was finalized, during implementation).

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) carried out a Quality of Entry Assessment in July
2003. The overall judgment: "The panel rated this project as highly satisfactory: This project is
an excellent example of a quick response to an immediate request by the client for assistance in
meeting the urgent need for transmission investments and support for development of its power
market. Strong Government support at the highest levels insured both rapid processing and a
high quality product. The Bank, on its part, was able to field an experienced team able to draw on
the Bank's global experience, particularly in the development of competitive power markets. This
is an area in which the Bank has a strong competitive advantage and consequently, high value
added. The project was appraised in a highly professional manner with all aspects receiving
careful attention".

2.2 Implementation

Transelectrica's, OPCOM's and ANRE's implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory.

The five original project components were implemented successfully and ahead of the original
June 30, 2008 loan closing date:

     · Part A: Fundeni and Iernut substations have been rehabilitated and commissioned.
         October 2005 floods in the Bucharest area affected Fundeni substation rehabilitation
         works. The project was brought back on track, successfully completed and
         commissioned in July 2007. Iernut substation was commissioned in June 2008. The pace
         of work was affected by constraints imposed by the National Dispatch Center which did
         not authorize necessary interruptions at the Iernut thermal power plant during the winter
         2007-2008. Finally, Transelectrica launched its new electricity balancing mechanism in
         July 2005 and it is fully operational;



                                                  4

    · Part B: The new commercial code was finalized in November 2004. The price-cap tariff
        regulation for distribution and revenue-cap tariff regulation for transmission went in force
        from January 2005 for the first three-year regulatory period. They were renewed for the
        second five-year regulatory period from January 2008; and

    · Part C: OPCOM launched its Power Exchange in July 2005 with a Day-Ahead Market.
        A Centralized Market (auction) for Bilateral Contracts (PCCB in its Romanian language
        abbreviation) was launched in December 2005. The results are highly encouraging and
        exceed original expectations: the power exchange is liquid and active and trading reached
        1/4 of Romania's total electricity supply for 2008.

Significant loan savings were achieved. Instead of cancellation, new components were added to
the scope of the project and also implemented successfully:

    · Part A: Two (Bacau and Roman) of three additional Transelectrica substations were
        completed in 2008; the third (Suceava) was in an advanced stage at the time of the
        December 31, 2008 loan closing and was completed in March 2009; and

    · Part C: The deliveries and consulting services under the new OPCOM component were
        completed, developing OPCOM's capability to offer services to the regional market and
        enabling OPCOM to negotiate the first actual service arrangement with Hungary.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Key performance indicators were discussed during preparation and confirmed at loan negotiations.
Transelectrica prepared quarterly progress reports. A mid-term review was carried out in
February 2005. The Bank supervised the project on a regular basis. These are standard
arrangements. There were two additional features beyond the standard arrangements that are
worth highlighting:

    · It was recognized that the project was ambitious and complex and that its successful
        implementation would require careful coordination between ANRE, OPCOM,
        Transelectrica and the Government. An Electricity Market Coordination Committee,
        consisting of senior officials of the ministry in charge of energy, ANRE, OPCOM and
        Transelectrica, was assembled for this purpose. The Committee was formally established
        by Ministerial Order 231 on April 8, 2003. Close coordination was also maintained
        between the executing agencies, the Bank and EU ­ the project assisted the Government
        in meeting European Union's requirements in the power sector and moreover, EU was
        funding ANRE's TA component, an integral part of the project, and ANRE's and
        OPCOM's IT systems under a closely-related parallel project; and

    · The Bank supervised the project ­ regular supervision missions and follow-up visits in
        between formal supervisions - at least five times per annum throughout project
        implementation even after some components of the project had already been completed.
        All regular supervisions missions and some follow-up visits included both Romania
        country office and headquarter staff. Country office staff ­ which included the task team
        leader since July 2005 - interacted with the executing agencies as needed, at times on a
        daily basis.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance



                                                  5

Safeguard and fiduciary compliance was generally satisfactory throughout the 2003-2008 project
implementation period. Environmental and social aspects were handled in a satisfactory manner
and Transelectrica adopted the Bank's approach for all of its projects (Section 3.5(c)).
Finance/financial management and procurement were also satisfactory ­ Transelectrica's financial
improvement was impressive (Section 3.5(b) - but nevertheless the following experiences with
financial covenants and prequalification issues need to be documented.

Finance & Financial Management. Transelectrica was not able to comply with the current ratio
covenant in 2006. The Bank maintained the "satisfactory" rating of Transelectrica's financial
management and "complied with" rating for financial covenants, considering "moderately
satisfactory" and "partially complied with" too negative ratings, given Transelectrica's overall
performance ­ current ratio of 1.21 instead of the covenanted minimum of 1.3 was regarded as
minor non-compliance which did not jeopardize the project or Transelectrica as a
corporation/ongoing concern. Transelectrica complied with loan covenants in 2007 (based on
audited statements) and is expected to have complied also in 2008 (based on latest estimates for
2008). The Audit Report Compliance System reported corporate accountability issues from the
2007 audit, from non-compliance with accounts receivable and self-financing covenants under an
earlier Bank loan to Romania (a portion of which was transferred to Transelectrica upon sectoral
restructuring). Transelectrica's self-financing ratio for 2007 was 29% (against the 30%
covenanted minimum). Transelectrica continues to experience some challenges in bill collection
and its receivables, at over three months, are in excess of the covenanted maximum of two
months. These issues do not jeopardize the project or Transelectrica as a corporation/going
concern; on the contrary, the project improved Transelectrica's financial viability (Section 3.5(b)).

Procurement. Transelectrica carried out procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines,
starting with prequalification. The prequalification requirements for the Fundeni substation
included the capability to supply 400kV compact substation equipment. Four companies
submitted their qualifications. At the bidding stage, three of the four were found not to be able to
comply, contrary to their own prequalification submissions. This issue potentially threatened the
project schedule very seriously. The Bank provided a way forward: the Bank allowed
Transelectrica to remove the compact substation equipment from the scope of the main Fundeni
contract and authorized Transelectrica to negotiate a Euro 4.66 million contract for that
equipment with the one qualified supplier and carry out normal ICB for the rest (for which a Euro
15.18 million contract was eventually implemented).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Post-completion status and prospects are regarded to be fully satisfactory:

    · Part A: All five substations have been commissioned and are in operation as integral
         parts of Transelectrica's transmission system. All five substations are existing
         operational substations and have the necessary management and operations and
         maintenance staff in place;

    · Part B: The commercial code is in effect (with amendments as required based on
         operational experience since 2005). The price-cap tariff regulation for distribution and
         revenue-cap tariff regulation for transmission entered their second, five-year regulatory
         period in January 2008. The Bank is backstopping the implementation of the regulatory
         framework for distribution through a partial risk guarantee (PRG) which became




                                                  6

        effective in April 2005; and

    · Part C: OPCOM Power Exchange is operational since July 2005. The operating results
        are highly encouraging and exceed original expectations: the Power Exchange is liquid
        and active and trading reached 1/4 of Romania's total electricity supply for 2008.

Follow-up Bank operations with Transelectrica, OPCOM and ANRE are currently not envisioned.
The Bank continues to support Romania's electricity market under the ongoing Romania-
Hidroelectrica/Lotru component (approved in January 2005) under the regional APL facility for
the development of the Energy Community in South East Europe.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Project objectives and design remain appropriate and relevant for Romania's power sector
reforms. The project was implemented in a highly satisfactory manner and facilitated Romania's
accession to the European Union in January 2007, for compliance with power sector aspects.
Romania is a regional leader in the Energy Community ­ the regional energy market in South
East Europe.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Project objectives have been achieved and exceeded: a wholesale electricity market is functioning
(the outcome), with outputs by OPCOM (the Power Exchange) and ANRE (the regulatory
framework) as well as Transelectrica (the transmission system, including the rehabilitated
substations). The OPCOM Power Exchange is liquid and active and trading reached 1/4 of
Romania's total electricity supply for 2008. The electricity market and related regulatory
framework were instrumental for the privatization of five of Romania's eight electricity
distribution companies and significant investments in transmission by Transelectrica and in
distribution in the five areas of the private distributors.

3.3 Efficiency

The original project was completed ahead of the original June 30, 2008 loan closing date and
substantially below original cost estimates - at a total cost of about Euro 64.9 million, 67% of the
original cost of about Euro 96.2 million. Two new components were added to the project scope
(to Parts A and C). They have been completed, at a total cost of about Euro 30.8 million. They
brought the total cost of the project, as implemented, to about Euro 95.7 million, 1% below the
cost of about Euro 96.2 million of the original (smaller) project.

The Bank loan was denominated in Euro as it was expected that the contracts would be in Euro,
which turned out to be the case. Annex 1 presents project cost estimates and actual costs and
financing in Euro (in tables (a) and (b) as well as in US$ (in tables (c) and (d)). The US$ tables
show the impacts of the depreciation of the US$ against the Euro. Although Transelectrica did
not fully utilize the Euro 74.3 million Bank loan (US$82.0 million equivalent at the time of
project approval), the Bank disbursed about Euro 71. 6 million (about $94.5 million equivalent).




                                                    7

Reflecting the improvement in Transelectrica's operational and financial performance during the
project period, the time-slice analysis at the ICR stage, using Transelectrica's actual figures for
2003-2007 yields higher rates than those projected at appraisal for the same period as summarized
in Table 1 and explained in Annex 3:

         Table 1: Transelectrica's Corporate FRR and ERR

      Time-slice rates of return                Financial (FRR)          Economic (ERR)
      Appraisal Estimates                             4.3%                     9.7%
      ICR (from 2003-07 actuals)                      12.0%                   16.6%



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The highly satisfactory rating is fully justified as: (1) Project development objectives and design
remain appropriate and highly relevant; (2) Project objectives have been exceeded; (3)
Transelectrica's actual corporate rates of return are higher than projected; and (4) The original
project was completed ahead of the original June 30, 2008 loan closing date and substantially
below the original cost estimates at 67% of the original cost. The new components added to the
project scope were completed within their cost estimates and most of them ahead of the
December 31, 2008 closing date of the loan (Suceava substation slipped to March 2009). Even
after adding the cost of the two new components (Euro 30.8 million) the total cost of the project,
as implemented, at about Euro 95.7 million, was 1% below the cost of about Euro 96.2 million of
the original (smaller) project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

All electricity consumers in Romania benefit from a more cost-effective and efficient power
supply facilitated by the project (see Section 1.4).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project involved substantial institutional strengthening particularly for two (OPCOM
and ANRE) of its three executing agencies and financial turnaround of the third
(Transelectrica): (1) OPCOM is now a fully-established market operator. The OPCOM Power
Exchange is liquid and active and trading reached 1/4 of Romania's total electricity supply for
2008. OPCOM is a model for the countries of South East Europe working to develop and
integrate their national markets in the Energy Community; and (2) ANRE has consolidated its
operations and has established a solid track record as the leading energy regulator in South East
Europe. (3) Transelectrica was a well-functioning transmission system operator already at the
start of the project in 2003. Along with the technical strengthening of its transmission system
through project investments, the project led to Transelectrica adopting the Bank's approach for
dealing with the environmental assessment and impacts of transmission (discussed in section (c)
below).




                                                   8

The project improved Transelectrica's financial viability. The tariff system in place during
project preparation was designed to enable Transelectrica to cover its costs and enable the
company to earn a reasonable (modest) profit. Transelectrica's 2002 balance sheet however
showed accumulated losses (negative retained earnings) of Leu 151 million (about US$50
million). Transelectrica's financial position was nevertheless satisfactory, in part explained by the
fact that Transelectrica was well capitalized when it was established in 2000. A new revenue-cap
tariff methodology was designed and implemented by ANRE under the project. This state-of-the-
art regulatory framework replaced the existing somewhat ad-hoc system in 2005. In parallel, a
concession agreement was prepared for Transelectrica's public domain assets ­ mostly
transmission line assets that Transelectrica uses in its operations but which are legally owned by
the Government. It was executed on June 29, 2004 - one day before the June 30, 2004
covenanted deadline. The impacts are visible on Transelectrica's balance sheet, which at the end
of 2007 shows accumulated retained earnings of Lei 431 million (about US$144 million) ­ a net
change of almost US$194 million. Reflecting its overall satisfactory financial situation and
performance, Transelectrica was successfully listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange in 2006.
Government sold 10% of its shares in Transelectrica in the market and subsequently transferred
another 13.5 % to the Property Fund. Transelectrica is a part of the BET index of the Bucharest
Stock Exchange tracking its 10 most liquid shares.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

In response to corruption allegations in some of the bilateral contracts of public generators, the
Bank recommended and the Government decided for OPCOM to develop a Centralized Market
(auction) for Bilateral Contracts (PCCB in its Romanian language abbreviation). It was launched
in December 2005 and has become an integral component of the OPCOM Power Exchange. The
Government made it mandatory in 2006 (Ministry of Economy Order 408/2006) for the five
biggest public sector generators to use the PCCB auction platform for new bilateral contracts of
public sector generators as and when their existing contracts expire, in order to promote
competition and ensure full transparency. The PCCB platform is being used particularly by the
three energy complexes. The other two intended users, Hidroelectrica and Nuclearelectrica, have
so far used it less. Hidroelectrica had already executed large bilateral contracts and ANRE has
reserved the major part of the remainder for the regulated market. Hidroelectrica operates
actively in Transelectrica's balancing market. ANRE has reserved most of Nuclearelectrica's
output to the regulated market. Nuclearelectrica sells the rest at the PCCB. As Hidroelectrica's
existing bilateral contracts expire and as ANRE releases Hidroelectrica and Nuclearelectrica
generation from the regulated market, these two generators are expected to utilize the PCCB
platform more extensively.

Another unexpected positive outcome was Transelectrica's decision to adopt the Bank's approach
for dealing with the environmental assessment and impacts of transmission through
environmental management plans (EMPs) for all of its substation projects. EMPs were first
prepared for Fundeni and Iernut (and Gutinas which was eventually funded by the Nordic
Investment Bank) and subsequently for all Transelectrica projects, including the three substation
projects that were added to the scope of Part A of the project in 2006.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Beneficiary surveys and/or stakeholder workshops have not been conducted for the ICR.
OPCOM and its partners conducted ten major formal workshops and numerous other meetings
with stakeholders for the preparation and implementation of the Romanian electricity market
(seven workshops) and the Hungary-Romania market coupling (three workshops).


                                                  9

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The project has been completed and the project development outcomes have been realized in a
highly satisfactory manner. The risk that the development outcomes will not be maintained is
rated as moderate:

    · Part A: Project investments have been completed and commissioned and form an
         integral part of Transelectrica's transmission system. Transelectrica is a sound and
         financially viable utility, majority government owned and listed in the Bucharest Stock
         Exchange. The risk that the development outcome of Part A - efficient and reliable
         transmission system to support trading and supply electricity at least cost to consumer ­
         would not be maintained is moderate. Moderate instead of negligible because
         Transelectrica experiences and expects increasing challenges, difficulties and delays in its
         projects involving land acquisition. These issues were not experienced in the project
         which did not involve land acquisition apart from a transfer of a small area of land from a
         public sector agency to Transelectrica for the Suceava substation;

    · Part B: The commercial code is in effect. The tariff regulation for distribution and
         transmission entered the second, five-year regulatory period in January 2008. The Bank
         is backstopping the implementation of the regulatory framework for distribution through
         a partial risk guarantee (PRG) which became effective in April 2005. The risk that
         ANRE could not maintain its performance is rated moderate, as ANRE faces occasional
         political pressures and may continue to lose key staff; and

    · Part C: The OPCOM Power Exchange started functioning in July 2005, almost four years
         ago. It is liquid and active and trading has reached 1/4 of Romania's total electricity
         supply for 2008. The risk that OPCOM could not maintain its performance is negligible.
         However, OPCOM is subject to the regulatory risks and as those risks ­ Part B ­ are rated
         moderate, the risk to sustainability of Part C is therefore also rated moderate.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The Bank mobilized a large team (Annex 4) with all necessary skills including specialists in
electricity markets, transmission utilities, engineering, procurement, environment, and
finance/financial management ­ this was expensive but also appropriate given the size of the
project and wide range of investments and technical assistance activities considered for financing,.
The team included several staff with long experience in the energy, finance/financial management
and environment sectors in Romania. The combination of solid skills and deep Romanian
experience enabled the team to develop a good working relationship with the executing agencies


                                                  10

and government officials and effectively contribute to the high quality project as well as to the
Government's new energy strategy (the Road Map, published in July 2003).

QAG's Quality of Entry review rated Quality at Entry as "highly satisfactory" and concluded that
"The Bank, on its part, was able to field an experienced team able to draw on the Bank's global
experience, particularly in the development of competitive power markets. This is an area in
which the Bank has a strong competitive advantage and consequently, high value added. The
project was appraised in a highly professional manner with all aspects receiving careful attention".

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank supervised the project ­ regular supervision missions and follow-up visits in between
formal supervisions - at least five times per annum throughout project implementation even after
some components of the project had already been completed. All regular supervisions missions
and some follow-up visits included both Romania country office and headquarters staff. Country
office staff interacted with the executing agencies as needed, at times on a daily basis. Task
leadership was transferred to the Bucharest office in July 2005, to one of the core members of the
Bank's Romania energy team. Intensive supervision and continuous involvement by the Bank
team helped ensure that the project components were successfully implemented. Effective
supervision of project implementation was helped by the fact that the core team that appraised the
project continued and remained largely unchanged throughout the supervision phase.
Furthermore, over the course of the project implementation, the Bank team continued to be
actively involved in Romania's energy reform process, through policy dialogue, development
policy lending and other energy operations. Based on the above supervision activities, the quality
of supervision is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Satisfactory performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project (Section
5.1(a)) and satisfactory project supervision (Section 5.1(b)) add up to an overall satisfactory
rating for Bank performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The three executing agencies of the project were all products of Romania's energy sector reforms.
ANRE started functioning in 1999 and Transelectrica and OPCOM were established in 2000.
Project preparation coincided with the review and updating of Romania's energy strategy. The
Government published the new strategy, called the Road Map for the Energy Field, in July 2003.
It provided the strategic direction for the electricity market (and thereby for OPCOM),
Transelectrica as the transmission system operator, and for the project. The Government
provided the sovereign guarantee for the Bank loan ­ the Borrower was Transelectrica. The
Government established and subsequently participated in the Electricity Market Coordination



                                                   11

Committee. A new Government came to power in Romania in 2005. It continued to support the
functioning of Transelectrica, OPCOM and ANRE, including the implementation of the project.
In October 2008, the Government approved an Ordinance which, when effective would create a
large power holding company by bringing together Hidroelectrica, two of the three energy
complexes and Electrica (including the three electricity distribution companies still in the public
sector). The holding company would have potentially threatened the functioning of Romania's
electricity market. The new Government that came to power in 2009 cancelled its predecessor's
power holding company Ordinance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The performance of all three executing agencies was highly satisfactory: (1) Part A ­
Transelectrica prepared a high quality project and implemented it on schedule and below original
cost estimates; (2) Part B ­ ANRE prepared and implemented the new regulatory framework for
the electricity market (the commercial code) and network companies including Transelectrica;
and (3) OPCOM prepared, launched and successfully operates the OPCOM Power Exchange.
These commendable accomplishments are discussed in earlier sections of this ICR and not
repeated here.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Highly satisfactory performance by the Government (Section 5.2(a)) and highly satisfactory
performance of all three executing agencies add up to an overall highly satisfactory rating for
Borrower performance.

Rating: Highly Satisfactory


6. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project as well as from its
achievements are the following:

    · The development of a functioning electricity market is a complex undertaking which
         Romania ­ the Government and the project's three executing agencies ­ accomplished
         successfully with the support of the project. A clear strategy (the Road Map); competent
         and committed staff in three executing agencies; close coordination between the agencies,
         with the Government (including the Electricity Market Coordination Committee), and
         with the European Commission and the Bank; and support by highly qualified consultants
         with hands-on experience were the key ingredients for Romania's success;

    · A functioning electricity marker operator (OPCOM) was successfully developed with the
         support of the project. A clear strategy (the Road Map); strong support by Transelectrica
         (OPCOM's owner); competent and committed staff at OPCOM; close coordination with
         ANRE, the Government, the European Commission and the Bank; and support by highly
         qualified consultants with hands-on experience were the key ingredients for OPCOM's
         success;




                                                 12

    · A modern transmission and distribution regulatory framework was successfully
        developed by ANRE with the support of the project. The framework facilitated private
        investment in distribution and a significant improvement in Transelectrica's financial
        performance and its listing in the Bucharest Stock Exchange. A clear strategy (the Road
        Map); competent and committed staff at ANRE; consultations with stakeholders
        including the industry, the Government, the European Commission and the Bank; and
        support by highly qualified consultants with hands-on experience were the key
        ingredients for ANRE's success;

    · High quality preparation put the project's three executing agencies in a good position for
        its successful implementation ­ this is self-evident but still a lesson worth noting;

    · Competitively designed and organized competitive bidding among qualified contractors
        gave Transelectrica good performance at competent prices, well below original cost
        estimates ­ also self-evident but nevertheless a lesson worth noting; and

    · Transelectrica experiences and expects increasing challenges, difficulties and delays in its
        projects involving land acquisition. To mitigate land acquisition delay risks, the
        Government could explore amendments to Romania's land acquisition framework for
        those energy projects (and infrastructure and other projects) which the Government
        deems to be priority projects of public/national interest. This can be done by streamlining
        procedures and updating the law in force, in order to avoid delays due to disputes
        settlement over compensation levels.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

The Bank has no comments on the Borrower's and the summary of OPCOM's ICRs. They do not
raise any issues. They are presented in Annex 5.

(b) Co-financiers, Other Partners and Stakeholders

[The Bank has no comments on the comments received from the European Commission. They
are presented in Annex 8.] Commission and Bank staff cooperated during project preparation
and implementation, including after the completion of the European Union-Phare funded work
under Part B of the project. Such cooperation included dialogue on Romania's plans for power
sector restructuring.




                                                13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal       Actual/Latest
            Components                 Estimate (Euro Estimate (Euro       Percentage of

                                          millions)         millions)       Appraisal

Investment Components
    1. Rehabilitation Of Fundeni And
Iernut Substations                          77.24            53.50             69%
    2. Rehabilitation Of Bacau,        not included in
Roman And Suceava Substations         the original scope     27.23             n/a
    3. Engineering And Supervision           2.16             2.09             97%
Technical Assistance Components
    4. ANRE - Regulatory Framework           1.08             1.19            110%
    5. OPCOM - Power Exchange                4.86             5.35            110%

    6. OPCOM - Regional Exchange       not included in
                                      the original scope      3.57             n/a
    7. Transelectrica - Institutional
Support                                      2.17             2.73            126%


 Baseline Cost of Original Project
             (w/o 2 & 6)                    87.50            64.86             74%
         Total Baseline Cost                87.50            95.66            109%
Physical Contingencies                       5.03             0.00
Price Contingencies                          3.62             0.00
   Total Costs of Original Project
             (w/o 2 & 6)                    96.16            64.86             67%
         Total Project Costs                96.16            95.66             99%
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.74             0.82            110%
Guarantee fee Government                     0.00             1.86             n/a
Interest During Construction                 6.03             5.87             97%
     Total Financing Required              102.93            104.21           101%



(b) Financing (in Euro Million equivalent)
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds               Type of        Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing       (Euro        (Euro       Appraisal
                                                       millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                27.55         31.52        114%
EC: PHARE                                 grant          1.08         1.08         100%
IBRD                                       loan         74.30         71.62         96%




                                               14

(c) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal       Actual/Latest
            Components                 Estimate (USD Estimate (USD         Percentage of

                                          millions)         millions)       Appraisal

Investment Components
    1. Rehabilitation Of Fundeni And
Iernut Substations                          85.24            69.55             82%

    2. Rehabilitation Of Bacau,        not included in
Roman And Suceava Substations         the original scope     35.40             n/a

    3. Engineering And Supervision           2.38             2.72            114%
Technical Assistance Components
    4. ANRE - Regulatory Framework           1.19             1.19            100%
    5. OPCOM - Power Exchange                5.36             6.95            130%

    6. OPCOM - Regional Exchange       not included in
                                      the original scope      4.65             n/a

    7. Transelectrica - Institutional
Support                                      2.4              3.55            148%


 Baseline Cost of Original Project
             (w/o 2 & 6)                    96.57            83.96             87%

         Total Baseline Cost                96.57            124.01           128%

Physical Contingencies                       5.55             0.00             n/a

Price Contingencies                          4.00             0.00             n/a
   Total Costs of Original Project
             (w/o 2 & 6)                   106.12            83.96            79%

         Total Project Costs               106.12            124.01           117%
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.82             0.82            100%
Guarantee fee Government                      0               2.42             n/a
Interest During Construction                 6.66             7.63            115%
     Total Financing Required               113.6            134.88           119%



(d) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds               Type of        Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing       (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                30.41         39.22        129%
EC: PHARE                                 grant         1.19          1.19         100%
IBRD                                       loan         82.00         94.47        115%




                                               15

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project consisted of three parts and a total of five components. They have been completed, at
a total cost of about Euro 64.9 million, 67% of the original cost of about Euro 96.2 million.

Two components were added during the implementation, expanding the scope to a total of seven
components: three investment components and four technical assistance components. They have
been completed, at a total cost of about Euro 30.8 million. They brought the total cost of the
project, as implemented, to about Euro 95.7 million, 1% below the cost of about Euro 96.2
million of the original (smaller) project.

Investment Components

Transelectrica was the executing agency of the Investment Components (numbers 1-3 below refer
to Annex 1, the cost estimates):

1.       Fundeni and Iernut substations were rehabilitated as originally planned.

2.       The scope of Part A of the project was expanded to support the upgrading of
Transelectrica's Gutinas - Bacau - Roman Nord ­ Suceava transmission system from 220 kV to
400 kV by financing the rehabilitation of the Bacau, Roman and Suceava substations. These
rehabilitations have been completed.

3.       The rehabilitation of Fundeni and Iernut substations was supported by engineering
consultants financed under the project.

Technical Assistance Components

ANRE, OPCOM and Transelectrica executed the Technical Assistance Components (numbers 4-
7 below refer to Annex 1, the cost estimates). They supported various aspects of the preparation,
implementation and commercial launch of Romania's new electricity trading platform, a complex
concept that consisted in a coherent set of rules and regulations, as well as the needed logistics
aimed to ensure its operation. The Romanian wholesale power market shifted to a multi-market
concept the main segments of which are: bilateral contracting (regulated and negotiated), a
voluntary Day-Ahead Market and a mandatory Balancing Market accompanied by competitive
contracting of ancillary services. The new platform started functioning in July 2005.

4.       ANRE ­ Regulatory Framework.

A new commercial code for the electricity market was prepared and finalized in November 2004.
Price-cap tariff regulation for distribution and revenue-cap tariff regulation for transmission were
prepared and put in force from January 2005 for the first three-year 2005-2007 regulatory period.
They were renewed for the second five-year 2008-2012 regulatory period from January 2008.




                                                  16

5.      OPCOM - Power Exchange

The Day-Ahead Market was designed by the end of 2004, pilot-tested during the first half of 2005,
and launched on July 1, 2005. A centralized auction of bilateral contracts was launched in
December 2005.

6.      OPCOM - Regional Exchange

The scope of Part C was expanded to support the development of OPCOM's capability to provide
market services to the regional electricity market in South East Europe. This work was
completed in December 2008. A market-coupling with Hungary, with market services provided
by OPCOM, is expected to become functional in 2009.

7.      Transelectrica - Institutional Support

In parallel with the design of OPCOM's Day-Ahead Market, Transelectrica's Balancing Market
was designed, pilot-tested and launched on July 1, 2005.




                                                17

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic and financial analysis replicates the analysis in the PAD, using the 2003-2007
time-slice of Transelectrica's investment program and operations. Investments include all
investment including the project in the 2003-2007 period. Operating and maintenance (O&M)
costs include all incremental O&M costs and benefits include all incremental revenues over the
reference year 2002. Benefits and O&M costs are then frozen for a 20-year operating period of
the time-slice investments. Revenues are the financial benefit and are used as a proxy for the
economic benefit. O&M costs are used in the financial analysis and without any adjustments
also in economic analysis. Actual investments are used in the financial analysis. In the economic
analysis, VAT and other taxes, a total of 20%, are excluded. All figures are actuals from
Transelectrica's audited financial statements.

            Investment Revenues        O&M     Incremental Incremental      Net Benefits    Net Benefits
                                                Revenues         Costs       (financial)    (economic)
     2002                     837.9     689.6
     2003          318.7      819.4     670.5         -18.5         -19.1          -318.1        -254.4
     2004          461.5     1060.8     780.7         222.9          91.1          -329.7        -237.4
     2005          563.7     1765.6    1425.2         927.7         735.6          -371.6        -258.9
     2006          399.5     2503.8    2063.7       1665.9         1374.1          -107.7         -27.8
     2007          285.8     2384.4    2019.7       1546.5         1330.1            -69.4        -12.2
     2008                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2009                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2010                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2011                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2012                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2013                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2014                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2015                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2016                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2017                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2018                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2019                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2020                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2021                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2022                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2023                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2024                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2025                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2026                                                                           216.4         216.4
     2027                                                                           216.4         216.4

                                                                                     FRR          ERR
                                                                                   12.0%         16.6%




                                               18

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                        Title               Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Daniel Liviu Aizic        Consultant                           -   Finance
Amarquaye Armar           Program Manager                   ETWES Electricity markets
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                        EASTE Environment
Nicholay Chistyakov       Sr Disbursement Officer           LOAFC Disbursements
Laurentiu Ciocurlan       Consultant                           -   Finance
Bogdan Constantin
Constantinescu            Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS FMS

Irina Kichigina           Senior Counsel                    LEGEM Legal
Luiz Maurer               Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG Peer review
Rene Mendonca             Senior Power Engineer             MNSSD Engineering
George Alexandru
Moldoveanu                Information Assistant             ECCRO Team support

Ana Otilia Nutu           Consultant                        ECSSD Project support
Kari J. Nyman             Lead Specialist                   ECSSD TTL
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza  Senior Counsel                    LEGAF Legal
Aman Sachdeva             Consultant                         AFTEG Finance
Rozena Serrano            Program Assistant                 ECSSD Team support
Tjaarda Storm van Leeuwen Adviser                            AFTEG Peer review
Leonid Vanian             Sr Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement
Doina Visa                Senior Operations Officer         ECSSD Deputy TTL

Supervision/ICR
Daniel Liviu Aizic        Consultant                           -  Finance
Amarquaye Armar           Program Manager                   ETWES Electricity markets
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                        EASTE Environment
Husam Mohamed Beides      Sr Energy Specialist              MNSSD Engineering
Bogdan Constantin
Constantinescu            Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS FMS

Angelica A. Fernandes     Procurement Analyst                ECSPS Procurement
Ramon Lopez-Rivera        Consultant                        ECSSD Engineering
George Alexandru
Moldoveanu                Information Assistant             ECCRO Team support

Ana Otilia Nutu           Consultant                        ECSSD Project support
Kari J. Nyman             Lead Specialist                   ECSSD Electricity markets
Alexandra Livia Onofrei   Program Assistant                 ECCRO Team support
Rozena Serrano            Program Assistant                 ECSSD Team support
Leonid Vanian             Sr Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement
Doina Visa                Senior Operations Officer         ECSSD TTL



                                          19

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                 66                       376.21
  FY04                                                            0.17
                        Total:         66                       376.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                            0.08
  FY04                                 23                        96.42
  FY05                                 13                        62.80
  FY06                                 20                        85.70
  FY07                                 21                        93.27
  FY08                                 18                       109.38
  FY09                                 11                        50.00
                        Total:        106                       497.65




                                    20

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                    21

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                  22

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A. Transelectrica ICR

[A copy of Transelectrica's ICR will be attached to the ICR]

B. OPCOM ICR

This section presents only a few extracts from OPCOM's two detailed reports on the completion
of the original technical assistance for the OPCOM Power Exchange and the subsequent
component to develop its capability to provide market services to the regional electricity market.
Transelectrica's ICR presents in Section A above the estimated and actual costs of these OPCOM
components.

Project Context

At the start of the project OPCOM had less than three years experience in administrating
Romania's electricity "market", meaning an arrangement where forecasts by OPCOM were
replacing the demand side in price clearing process. The then existing "in house" developed
trading system (Excel based) was more enthusiastic than highly professional. The initial spot
market model was adapted to the starting conditions of a limited number of players and limited
experience.

Huge challenges were coming in early 2003 from the decision to change this model according to
the stage of the market opening and increased experience. The issuance of "the Road Map in the
Electricity Field", strategy document demonstrated the capability of Romanian stakeholders to
cooperate and to deal with difficulties, barriers and challenges. Submitted as a framework for the
project, the Road Map became the reference document for the Romanian electricity market
development and was also successfully used to close the Energy chapter of Romania's EU
accession negotiations and remained a valuable reference to the end of the project.

The Technical Assistance Program

A comprehensive package of technical assistance was formulated and implemented under the
project, step by step, by the three main stakeholders ANRE, Transelectrica and OPCOM

OPCOM's technical assistance program for the development of the OPCOM Power Exchange
covered:

    · specific training to better understand its role, vision and mission as a power exchange in
        national and regional framework in phase I;
    · initial and updated business plans in phase I and in phase II;
    · operational procedures, including market surveillance in phase I;
    · permanent diagnosis of the market in both phases;
    · technical assistance for the day-ahead market (DAM) platform implementation in phase
        I;
    · computerized system to manage the collaterals in order to implement the counterparty
        role in phase II;




                                                  23

    · just in time support in critical turning points and day-by-day operation during both
         phases;
    · vision on new products development: intra-day and certificates (green, white, black) in
         phase II;
    · flexible approach of the regional market integration: regional power exchange mixed
         with service provider in phase II; (beneficiary of detailed recommendations were also in
         this respect the Ministry, the Regulator and the TSO);
    · on-the-job support in managing contacts and negotiations with regional partners: Bulgaria,
         Hungary in phase II, respectively regional power exchange;
    · portable and fixed simulators for regional trading, extensions of the trading platform for
         regional trading updated according negotiations with Hungarian TSO and its subsidiary
         power exchange in the Regional power exchange phase; and
    · Support for decision makers towards financial market and clearing house, including
         business plan in the Regional power exchange phase.

All in all, a comprehensive package of services well designed during preparation with full support
of World Bank representatives and effectively implemented by OPCOM and its expert
consultants.


OPCOM's Results

The project objectives have been achieved. OPCOM is currently operating as a full Power
Exchange. OPCOM ended 2008 with an overall market share of 25.17% out of Romania'
electricity consumption traded in the centralized electricity markets that is operating and
calculated as electricity deliveries during 2008 (9.4% in the Day Ahead Market, 15.67% in the
Centralized Market for Bilateral Contracts, 0.1% - the Centralized Market for Forward Bilateral
Contracts), following a continuous and sound year by year increase since 2005. It should be also
noted that at the end of 2008, the quantity of electricity already contracted through the
Centralized Market for Bilateral Contracts operated by OPCOM and having the delivery during
2009 amounted around 20% out of the electricity consumption forecasted for 2009. Also, with the
commercial start of OPCOM assuming the counterparty position in the trades concluded in the
Day Ahead Market, the trades are safe, anonymous and liquid, with increased speed in payments
flows, advantages for the market participants confirmed by the increase of the active participation.


OPCOM was short-listed and later selected as a winner by Mavir, the Hungarian TSO, to provide
power market services to its newly incorporated Hungarian Power Exchange ­ HUPX. OPCOM
managed to incorporate into this project requirements from HUPX, and also OPCOM was able to
offer technical solution to HUPX development by the outputs of the Project, mainly by the
portable simulator. By managing these two projects simultaneously (the project and HUPX
discussions), OPCOM negotiated with HUPX its first commercial contract as a market service
provider. The project has provided OPCOM the capability to offer regional services. It remains to
OPCOM as a task to be further deployed the discovery of the most appropriated ways to promote
regional integration by offering regional services including trading and market coupling. This will
be done based on the concept developed within project "Technical and Institutional Capacity
Building Assistance for the Development and Commercial Start-Up of the OPCOM Power
Exchange".




                                                 24

World Bank Support

OPCOM received the full support of the World Bank. The WB was not only financing the
project but carefully supported OPCOM and other agencies during preparation and
implementation by bringing their advice in critical sections of the project evolution. WB
operated as the missing link between Romanian stakeholders by bringing them at the round table
discussions, mitigating disputes and pushing forward. The challenges of preparing and
contracting the project were successfully completed. Also, complex activities developed under
the project were successfully completed. All these operations were appropriately prepared and
deployed based on the consistent, continuous and professional support assured by the Bank. This
lead to an outstanding overall result of the project, added with consistent experience acquired
from the Bank. This allows us to rate Bank performance as highly satisfactory. This ICR mirrors
the development and results of the project which evolved in line with Romanian electricity
wholesale market development during 2003-2008.




                                                 25

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    26

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


OPCOM Implementation Completion Report "Technical and Institutional Capacity
Building Assistance for the Development and Commercial Start-Up of the OPCOM
Power Exchange", March 2009

OPCOM Implementation Completion Report "Development and Implementation of the
Regional Power Exchange ­ OPCOM", March 2009

Project Appraisal Report, May 2003

Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), 2003-2008




                                         27

