Page  1
Georgia: Second Poverty Reduction Operation 
SUMMARY
 
Report No.:  AB2358 
Operation Name 
PRSO II, $20 million 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);General energy sector 
(20%);Other social services (20%);General industry and trade 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P093245 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
July 18, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 27, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
October 12, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Georgia has witnessed significant political and economic developments since the peaceful “Rose 
Revolution” in 2003.  The Rose Revolution was a popular uprising against years of 
macroeconomic mismanagement and corruption, triggered by frustration over fraudulent abuses 
in parliamentary elections.  In the past, Georgia had undertaken many economic reforms with 
some success but reforms were not sustained.  Although growth had occurred in some years, the 
beneficial impact and sustainability of the reforms were limited by weak implementation and 
corruption.  Key economic problems had been, among others, corruption; very low revenue 
collections; wasteful/inefficient public expenditures; and unsustainable levels of debt.  These 
were a reflection of a failed state characterized by pervasive corruption, and a fragmentation of 
power among competing groups in government and between the central and local authorities.  
 
With a strong and clear mandate to fight corruption, improve governance, and raise standards of 
living, the new Government took decisive actions under the general umbrella of the PRSP (or 
Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program as it is known in Georgia).  The 
Government has been implementing bold reforms to fight corruption, reduce the burden of the 
state on the economy, move the energy sector towards efficiency and sustainability, lay the basis 
for improved employment and standards of living of Georgians, and develop a fiscally-
sustainable social safety net.  
 
These reform efforts were well complemented by the implementation of tax and customs reform 
and substantial improvements in public finances.  Stronger public finances allowed safeguarding 
stability while eliminating wage and pension arrears inherited from previous administrations.  
Major reforms in social sectors, particularly education, and important basic repairs and 
maintenance of basic infrastructure is underway.  A major recent accomplishment of the reform 
program of the Government, supported by the PRSO II, was to introduce a poverty benefit 
program for the extreme poor.  The results and overall economic performance to date have been 
Page  2
impressive.  According to the 2005 World Bank-EBRD Business Environment and Enterprise 
Performance Survey (BEEPS-2005), Georgia has seen the largest improvement in governance in 
the Europe and Central Asia region.  Firms report that both administrative corruption and state 
capture have fallen markedly and that corruption is far less of a problem in doing business.  
These and other policy and structural reforms have resulted in an impressive improvement in tax 
collection which increased from just over 14 percent of GDP in 2002 to around 20 percent in 
2005.  The government also cleared substantial wages and pension arrears accumulated over 
several years prior to 2004.  Growth averaged 8.8 percent during 2003-05 and inflation stayed in 
the single digits through the first quarter of 2006.  
Doing Business 2006
 ranked Georgia as the 
second country in the world in terms of improvement in its business environment during 2005.  
And 
Doing Business 2007
 ranked Georgia the number one reformer worldwide with its ranking 
improving from 112
th
 to 37
th
 place.  Investment has been strong and rising, mainly reflecting oil 
and gas pipelines construction, but also public road projects and growing private investor interest 
in other areas.   
 
Over the next few years Georgia faces the challenge of translating these early gains into lasting 
institutional change.  To this end the Government has prepared the document entitled 
Basic Data 
and Directions 2007-10 
which outlines the national objectives, the macroeconomic framework, 
and the sectoral strategies to achieve them.  Similarly, the Government prepared the Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report of 2006 which outlines the progress in the poverty 
reduction strategy and next steps.  In addition to further fiscal consolidation and the sustaining of 
the drive to eliminate corruption, to the strategy aims at steadily improving the functioning of the 
public sector, strengthening the business climate, and improving the delivery of social and 
infrastructure services. .  The Poverty Reduction Support Operation Program is designed to 
deepen and broaden the structural reform agenda of the Government.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO II), the second in a series of 
three proposed PRSOs, is intended to continue to support the Government of Georgia with the 
implementation of the reforms and policy priorities of the Economic Development and Poverty 
Reduction Program (EDPRP, or the PRSP as it is known in Georgia).  The proposed Second 
PRSO would support the objectives and the policies of the EDPRP by:  
 
(i) 
Strengthening public sector accountability, efficiency, and transparency.
 
This pillar 
focuses on further improvements in the public sector that cut across public expenditure 
management, fiduciary activities, and provision of basic public services. Specific policy actions 
under this component aim at: strengthening budgeting and expenditure management; increasing 
transparency and efficiency in the public procurement and financial management systems; 
strengthening public administration and intergovernmental fiscal relations; and enhancing the 
transparency and accountability of the public sector. These improvements are also expected to 
contribute to reducing opportunities for corruption. 
 
(ii) 
Improving electricity and gas sector services.
 
Measures under this pillar focus on moving 
the energy sector towards efficiency and sustainability.  Lack of dependable electricity and gas 
sector services in the past was detrimental to businesses and to job generation, especially in the 
Page  3
rural areas, and has had a heavy impact on the poorer segments of the population.  The 
Government  developed a Medium-Term Strategic Action Plan in 2005 which has brought better 
financial discipline to the sector allowing significant improvement in service delivery.  In 
support of the Government strategy for the electricity and gas sectors, specific reforms in this 
pillar are aimed at addressing the electricity sector debt, further improving payment collections, 
and diversifying supply sources in the gas sector. 
 
(iii) 
Improving the environment for private sector development.
 
This pillar recognizes that 
the development of the private sector is critical to sustaining high growth and creating 
employment opportunities. Policy measures under this component focus on reducing the costs to 
business activity imposed by the public sector, including simplifying tax legislation, and 
streamlining of the regulatory framework. 
 
(iv) 
Improving social protection, education and health care services.
 
This pillar focuses on 
improving the access, accountability, and affordability of services in the social sector and social 
protection for the vulnerable.  The Government’s reform program includes introducing a fiscally-
sustainable targeted social assistance program, improving the efficiency and efficacy of 
resources in education (by implementing a capitation financing model, the systematic testing and 
monitoring of results and strengthening quality-enhancing dimensions including educational 
materials and curricula enabling them to participate for the first time in the current TIMSS and 
PIRLs international assessment exercises), and adopting a revised basic benefits package in 
health and a primary healthcare master plan. 
 
Annex 2 of the Program Document presents a detailed description of the proposed core reforms 
envisioned under the program.  The third PRSO is proposed to be extended on the basis of policy 
and institutional reform actions taken as agreed with IDA.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank is providing financing as well as technical support to the reform program of the 
Government.  External financing needs are projected at US$645 million annually during 2006-
08, with FDI covering an average of US$500 million as the construction of the oil and gas 
pipelines end.  The residual financing needs are assumed to be met by a mix of public (56 
percent) and private (44 percent) borrowings, including continued recourse to exceptional 
financing from the Bank and the IMF.  The Bank also plays an important role in providing 
technical support to the reform program of the Government particularly in bringing to bear the 
international experience of economic reforms on policy makers in Georgia, and supporting the 
Government’s efforts in strengthening institutional capacity. 
 
4. Financing 
Source:    (US 
millions) 
Borrower 
     
 
0 
IDA 
     20 
TOTAL     20 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will act as the main coordinator for managing the overall 
implementation of the PRSO.  The MOF also actively participates in the implementation of 
EDPRP goals, while the overall coordination of the EDPRP is the responsibility of Ministry of 
Economic Development. The primary implementing line agencies for the PRSO program are: the 
Ministries of Finance, Economic Development, Health, Labor and Social Affairs, Education and 
Science, Energy, Public Service Bureau, Office of the State Minister on Reform Coordination, 
the State Procurement Agency, and the Chamber of Control. 
 
The monitoring of the reform program is being carried out through regular reviews and in the 
context of the supervision of this operation as well as the preparation of the third PRSO.  
Progress in the implementation of policy measures will be further monitored through other Bank 
financed projects, including those that complement actions supported under the PRSO. The 
monitoring of public sector reforms as well as public expenditures on social sectors is of 
particular importance.  Agreement has been reached with the Government to produce periodic 
information in these areas.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
There are several primary benefits of this operation. First and foremost, the proposed second 
PRSO supports further progress with anti-corruption efforts.  Improved governance will enhance 
efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources, promote the investment climate, and 
will also improve the access to and affordability of key social services for the poor.  
Furthermore, strengthened public expenditure management and accountability will continue to 
enhance the strategic allocation of resources through the medium-term expenditure framework 
and contribute to fiscal sustainability. Improved electricity and gas sector services will continue 
to help mitigate one of the key impediments to business and job generation as well as 
contributing directly to improved living standards for the poor, notably for those outside the 
capital. The simplification and clarification of rules and regulations governing business activity 
will continue to provide further stimulus to private sector activity.  The reforms envisaged in key 
social programs will improve the quality and targeting of social services and social protection for 
the poor and vulnerable.  Under the second PRSO, the Georgian authorities are introducing for 
the first time ever a targeted social assistance program for the extreme poor.  This is a key 
measure to reduce poverty in Georgia.   
 
The Government’s reform efforts face several risks. One risk is limited implementation capacity.  
This has been carefully factored into the design of this operation: notably, through a 
programmatic approach with proper sequencing. The Government is also taking direct initiatives 
to ensure policy consistency across various initiatives and to address capacity weaknesses. 
Georgia faces other macroeconomic risks and vulnerabilities.  On the domestic front, these 
include: (i) pressures on public spending related to the local electoral cycle; (ii) an acceleration 
of rapid growth of credit to the private sector; and (iii) a limited response of domestic investment 
and net job creation to the reforms.  External risks and vulnerabilities include: (i) further 
increases in energy prices; (ii) limited progress on trade and investment diversification; (iii) 
lower than expected FDI flows, privatization receipts and/or worker remittances.  However, the 
improvements in macroeconomic management and pace of structural reforms over the last two 
years provide a good foundation to adequately manage these risks and vulnerabilities.  . 
Page  5
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSO program is expected to have a positive impact on poverty and social development.  
Regarding environmental aspects, the program does not have a direct impact on the environment.  
In order to assess potential impact, the Bank carried out a PSIA in late 2003 (covering the impact 
of energy price increases).  A programmatic poverty assessment provides periodic updates and 
further guidance during the implementation of the program.  Regarding energy reforms, 
households in Tbilisi had a power consumption level close to basic needs and that demand was 
inelastic, thus suggesting that tariff increases would be associated with significant welfare losses.  
However, key findings of the PSIA included: (i) electricity tariff increases in Tbilisi did not led 
to shift to dirtier fuel consumption but instead to increased use of clean natural gas; and (ii) 
outside of Tbilisi, a substantial number of households continue to burn wood, and the use of 
improved wood burning technologies could produce welfare gains.  Overall, energy sector 
reform would mostly have a positive environmental impact.   
 
The 
social protection system
 will undergo a major reform with the objective of reducing the 
incidence of extreme poverty in Georgia. The Government has introduced a cash family poverty 
benefit in 2006 targeted to the extreme poor.   
.
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Rosalinda Quintanilla 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7673 
Fax: (202)-614-7778 
Email: rquintanilla@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
