Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FINANCING NUMBER 4234 GE  
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 16, 2006  
 
Page  2
FINANCING NUMBER 4234 GE 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 16, 2006, entered into between GEORGIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 13,500,000) (“Credit”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02 The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
70, Irakli Abashidze Street 
0162 Tbilisi 
Georgia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
99532292079 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Aleksi Aleksishvili 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Roy Southworth 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient has achieved satisfactory progress in: (a) improving the policy 
content of the annual budget preparation and execution, including better linking of the 
MTEF to the budget cycle; (b) developing and implementing the MTEF based budgetary 
process; and (c) increasing the focus on improved efficiency of public expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has: (a) maintained the publication of the State Procurement 
Agency Report on procurement processes, activity and performance, as well as remedial 
action processed to address deficiencies; and (b) submitted to Parliament amendments to 
the Public Procurement Law to adopt international practices of retroactive financing in 
public procurement.   
 
3. 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament the draft Law on the Chamber of 
Control elevating its mandate and responsibilities to a supreme audit institution in line 
with International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions standards. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has: (a) carried out its treasury reforms, including the 
implementation of: (i) the central government Treasury Single Account; and (ii) nation-
wide Treasury rules and guidelines; and (b) adopted and initiated the implementation of 
the strategy to produce annual consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
internationally accepted accounting and reporting standards. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament the draft Law on Local Self- 
Government Budget. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has: (a) formulated and initiated a consultation process for a 
strategic vision for administrative and civil service reform; (b) adopted and initiated the 
implementation of the Action Plan to Implement the Anti-corruption Strategy; and (c) 
implemented baseline survey to assess point of service corruption in education. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has: (a) achieved satisfactory implementation of the Energy Sector 
Medium Term Strategic Action Plan; and (b) adopted an acceptable organizational model 
for gas supply which ensures that the Recipient fully benefits from available international 
competition. 
 
Page  6
5
8. 
The United Energy Distribution Company of Georgia has achieved a collection 
rate of at least 65%. 
 
9. 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament the draft Debt Management Law for 
the electricity sector. 
 
10. 
The Recipient has made satisfactory implementation of the legislation for permits 
and licensing simplification. 
 
11. 
The Recipient has implemented customs policy and institutional reforms aimed at 
eliminating corruption therein, including: (a) adopting a new customs code; and (b) re-
organizing and re-staffing the Customs Office. 
 
12. 
The Recipient has established the National Agency for Standardization and 
Metrology and the National Accreditation Body. 
 
13. 
The Recipient has: (a) made the targeted social assistance program operational; 
(b) established targeting and administrative bench mark indicators; and (c) budgeted 
adequate resources to fund the program. 
 
14. 
The Recipient: (a) is participating fully in the current TIMSS and PIRLS; and (b) 
has achieved satisfactory progress in developing prototype quality assurance 
arrangements for the general secondary system. 
 
15. 
 The Recipient has: (a) defined and piloted the Basic Benefit Package in two 
regions; (b) adopted the primary health care master plan; (c) achieved satisfactory 
progress in developing the hospital sector master plan; and (d) achieved satisfactory 
progress in integrating the primary healthcare master plan and the hospital sector master 
plan. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  7
6
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
 
13,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
13,500,000 
 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a deposit account in Dollars
 (“Foreign 
Currency Account for PRSO II”). 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Account for PRSO II.  Upon each deposit of an 
amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Account for PRSO II, the Recipient 
shall convert such an amount into Lari and deposit such Lari amount into the Treasury 
Single Account. 
 
D. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Account for PRSO II audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with terms of reference and consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
April 30, 2007, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Account  for PRSO II and its audit, as well as the Treasury Single Account, as 
the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  8
7
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is July 31, 2007. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2017 to and including 
August 15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing February 15, 2027 to and including 
August 15, 2046 
 
2% 
________________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions  
 
1.  
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Page  11
10 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter of development policy, dated September 6, 2006 from the 
Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
Page  12
11 
 
4. 
“Foreign Currency Account for PRSO II” means the account referred to in Part 
C.1 of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
 “Treasury Single Account” means the account in Lari of the Ministry of Finance 
at the National Bank of Georgia referred to in Part C.2 of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Lari” means the currency of the Recipient. 
 
7. 
“MTEF” means the Medium-term Expenditure Framework used to plan and 
execute the budget of the Recipient. 
 
8. 
“TIMSS” means the Trends in Mathematics and Science Study. 
 
9. 
“PIRLS” means the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study. 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  13
12 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
7.. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
Page  14
13 
 
