Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7004-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
November 14, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCtPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACC                    Agricultural Credit Corporation
ACSD                   Amman Clearing Settlement, and Depository Company
AFM                    Amman Financial Market
ARC                    Aqaba Railways Company
ASE                    Amman Stock Exchange
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ                    Central Bank of Jordan
CG                     Certificate of Deposit
CG                     Consultative Group
CVDB                   Cities and Villages Development Bank
DDSR                   DebtlDebt Service Reduction
EFF                    Extended Fund Facility
ERDL                   Economic Reform and Development Loan
ESAL                   Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
EU                     European Union
GCC                    Gulf Cooperation Council
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GST                    General Sales Tax
GTZ                    Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDB                    Investment Development Bank
IDECO                  Irbid District Electricity Company
IDF                    Institutional Development Facility
IFC                    International Finance Corporation
ISA                    Insurance Supervision Agency
JEA                    Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO          =       Jordan Electric Power Company
JIC                    Jordan Investment Corporation
JSEC                   Jordan Securities Exchange Commission
NAF                    National Aid Facility
NBFI                   Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NGO                    Non-Government Organizations
NPV                    Net present value
PTC                    Public Transport Company
SSC                    Social Security Corporation
TCC                    Telecommunication Corporation
UNCTAD                 United Nations Commission of Trade and Development
USAID          =       United States Agency for International Development
WBG                    West Bank & Gaza
WTO                    World Trade Organization
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
(As of October 15, 1996)
US$1.00 = JD 0.7
JD 1.00 = US$1.43
JD 1.00 = fils 1,000
GOVERNMENT OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  SUMMARY  ....................................................................i
PART  I. THE  ECONOMY ....................................................................1
RECENT ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENTS ....................................................................1
MEDIuM-TERM  PROSPECTS AND FINANCING  PLAN  ..............................................................2
PART II. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY ........................................................4
THE ECONOMIC AND  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN ..............................................................4
THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM  FOR  1996 ....................................................................                        6
THE PROGRAM  SUPPORTED BY  ERDL-II ....................................................................8
TRADE POLICY  ....................................................................9
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY ...................................................................                                     10
PRIVATIZATION  AND RESTRUCTURING  ....................................................................  1
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ...................................................................                                        12
PART  III. THE  PROPOSED  LOAN. ...................................................................                                        13
PART  IV. RECOMMENDATION  ...................................................................                                              15
Annexes
I.        Letter of Development Policy
Attachment. Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
II.    Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits and IFC Investments
III.   Key Economic Indicators
Vice President: Kemal Dervis
Director:            Inder Sud
Division Chief: Adil Kanaan
Task Manager: Christian Petersen
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



This report is based on the work of missions to Jordan during November 1995 to September 1996 consisting of
Mmes./Messrs. Christian E. Petersen (Senior Country Economist, Mission Leader and Task Manager of ERDL-
II), Jayanta Roy (Lead Economist), Bernard Hoekman (Senior Trade Economist), John Wetter (Research
Economist, Trade), Dimitri Vittas (Financial Sector Advisor), Arun Muralidhar (Senior Investment Officer),
Syahril Sabirin (Senior Financial Economist), Millard Long (Manager, Financial Sector), Shyam Khemani
(Principal Industrial Economist, Regulatory Framework), Joseph Saba (Principal PSD Specialist, Regulatory
Framnework), Eric Haythome (Senior Counsel, Regulatory Framework), Jaime Vazquez-Caro (Senior Tax
Administration Specialist, Regulatory Framework), Hafeez Shaikh (Principal PSD Specialist, Privatization),
Heidi Mattila (PSD Specialist, Privatization), Prajapati Trivedi (PSD Specialist, Privatization). Karen Hudes
(Senior Counsel) participated in the subsequent loan negotiations. Messrs. Adil Kanaan and Inder Sud are the
Division Chief and Country Department Director respectively responsible for the operation.
Consultants who have worked on the project include Mmes./Messrs. Ross Campbell, Richard Downer, Chai
Ting, and Herbert Torres on privatization; Mat Adron, Ron Bielen, Clanwilliam Consulting Ltd.(Dan McGing,
Brendan 0 Tigheamaigh, Liam McGabhann), and Charles Tharp on financial sector, Afridi Angell & Baker
(Emad Khalil), Baker & Miller pllc (Todd Miller), Evert Bosch, Ronald Cumings, Davies Ward & Beck (Dany
Assaf, Milos Barutciski, Jay Swartz), Bjom Nagell, and El-Thary on regulatory framework together with the
Jordanian law firms: the Law and Arbitration Centre (Thamer Obeidat, Rami Al-Hadidi, Reem Abu Hassan),
Nabulsi & Associates (Omar Nabulsi, Zina Nabulsi), and Ali Sharif Zu'bi & Sharif Ali Zu'bi (Sharif Zu'bi,
Khaled Asfour). Funding from IDF, PHRD, and USAID is gratefully acknowledged.



-i-             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Amount:              US$120 million.
Terms:               Repayment on 17 years, including 4 years at grace, US$ LIBOR based at
variable rate, on the Bank's standard terms.
Loan Objectives:     A key objective of the series of Economic Reform and Development
Loans (ERDLs), of which this is the second, is to support Jordan in
addressing constraints to rapid and sustained growth imposed by the
limitations of a relatively small domestic market. The Government's
cross-cutting reforms target close integration with global markets and the
establishment of an investment-friendly, efficient business environment.
ERDL-II, by supporting further trade liberalization, streamlining of
customs procedures and administration, would lead to a sustained growth
of exports; through a comprehensive program of privatization, would lead
to an efficient production and incentive structure; through financial sector
reform, would lead to efficient resource mobilization and allocation; and
finally, through streamlining the regulatory framework, would lead to a
stable environment that is attractive to private business, ready to compete
aggressively in the world markets.
Loan Description:    The Loan supports a series of trade, privatization, financial sector, and
regulatory reforms.  It would further reduce anti-export bias, foster
integration with world markets, and reduce administrative obstacles that
raise the cost of trading activity through tariff reductions, elimination of
exemptions, and modernization of the Customs Law and administration. It
would improve banking competition and the efficiency of financial
intermediation. It would reduce special privileges that distort the financial
sector and improve viability of financial institutions. It would encourage
long-term savings and promote development of new financial instruments
and markets. It would encourage entry and improve incentives for domestic
and foreign investors. Finally, through privatization, it would improve
opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, and allow the
Government to concentrate on its core functions and, thereby, achieve
greater efficiency.



- ii -
Benefits:             The policy package supported by the Loan would lead to the maintenance of
high GDP growth supported by robust export performance and a much
greater role for the private sector competing in an enabling legal framework.
It would: (a) strengthen the incentives for export production through
reducing the import costs of capital goods and intermediate goods; (b)
benefit domestic consumers by lowering the costs of imported consumption
goods; (c) boost national income growth and alleviate poverty; (d) improve
resource efficiency and raise factor productivity; (e) help Jordan to attract
direct foreign and domestic investment; (f) facilitate Jordan's move toward
closer trade relations with the EU and regional economies; and (g) support
Jordan's balance of payments financing requirements.
Risks:                The main risk is political and associated with possible reversals in the
regional peace process. Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected
by external shocks in terms of possible adverse capital movements or
changes on the external demand for Jordanian goods and services. There is
also the risk that despite the expectation that reforms would benefit the bulk
of the population, vested interests may succeed in arguing against the
reforms due to misconceived social and political risks from lowering of
trade protection and privatization.
The Government has maintained a delicate balance between economic
reforms and political stability since 1989.  The political liberalization
initiated has provided a democratic process for conflict resolution, thus
contributing to social and political stability. The Government's appreciation
of the political feasibility of the reforms has been factored into the program
(e.g. in the phasing of reforms), thereby reducing risks to program
implementation.
Maintaining the macroeconomic framework, including a realistic exchange
rate and an appropriate interest rate policy, would enable Jordan to better
cope with external shocks that could take place from changes of capital
flows. The assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework has been
secured with the successful implementation of the ongoing Fund EFF
program.
Disbursement:         The loan would be disbursed in one tranche of US$120 million.
Financing Plan        The Government has requested co-financing from the Netherlands, in an
amount of Fl 15 million (US$8.9 million equivalent). The EU is supporting
the reforms with financing in the order of ECU 100 million.
Poverty Category:     Not Applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-II) to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for
US$120 million. This loan would be disbursed in one tranche to provide financial support for the
trade, financial sector, and legislative policy reforms, as well as the privatization program, that the
Government is implementing as part of its medium-term Economic Reform and Development
Program (ERDP). This program is described in a Letter of Development Policy (LDP) from the
Government (Annex I), and summarized below (paras. 13-19). The loan would be on standard
IBRD terms at a variable rate with 17 years maturity, including 4 years of grace.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
1.           Jordan approaches the next century facing a radically different world from that
of the early decades following its independence in 1946. With few natural resources (potash,
phosphate, Jordan Valley agriculture), the country invested heavily in its human resources during
the 1970s and 1980s, and the remittances of skilled Jordanian workers in the Gulf and elsewhere
became Jordan's largest single source of foreign exchange. The Cold War, the Arab-Israeli
conflict and high oil prices all contributed to high levels of official grants and concessional loan
assistance to Jordan from 1973 until 1982. The economic boom ended in 1983 with the fall in
the price of oil and subsequent declines in remittances and exports, while foreign grants were
halved. Average annual growth during 1983-89 was under one percent. Consumption levels
were maintained with ever increasing budget deficits and external debt; internal and external
deficits became unsustainable. By 1989, Jordan's inability to meet its external obligations
precipitated a crisis which led to a Fund-supported stabilization program and a major Paris Club
rescheduling. The adjustment and economic recession reduced real per capita income to about
half its 1987 peak of US$2,100. With the advent of the Gulf crisis in 1990, Jordan faced the new
challenge of disruptions of aid and trade, and the return of 300,000 Jordanians from the Gulf
area, which pushed unemployment up to 25 percent. Nevertheless, stabilization policies have
since been successful: the fiscal deficit and inflation fell, and most prices and interest rates
became market determined. Structural constraints to growth have been and are being addressed
as the Government is fully committed to open the economy further and give private initiative
fuller rein.
2.           Since 1989 the Government has pursued an ambitious reform agenda in order to
stabilize the economy, improve efficiency, and broaden the role of the private sector. The
reform program included measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, maintain a competitive real
exchange rate, and restructure the tariff and trade regimes. Fueled by a real estate boom
associated with a major inflow of savings from Gulf returnees, real GDP rebounded in 1992 with



- 2 -
growth of 16 percent. Growth was about 6 percent in both 1993 and 1994, while inflation
declined to less than 4 percent. In 1995, growth is estimated to have accelerated to 6.4 percent;
while construction-led in 1992-94, growth in 1995 was based on a recovery in agriculture, a
pick-up in tourism and trade-related activities, and an expansion of traditional mining activities.
Inflation further declined to 3 percent in 1995, despite indirect tax increases, reflecting increased
supply of agricultural products and prudent demand management. The rebound in domestic
economic activity helped reduce the unemployment rate from its peak of 25 percent in 1991, but
it still remains high at about 13-15 percent.
3.            After a small increase in the fiscal deficit in 1994, mainly due to a sharp decline
in customs duties and non-tax revenues, in 1995 both the primary and overall fiscal balance,
excluding foreign grants, are estimated to have improved by one percent of GDP, owing to
increased revenue collection. The primary balance improved from a 0.6 percent deficit in 1994
to a 0.4 percent surplus in 1995, while the overall fiscal deficit improved from 6.2 percent to 5.1
percent, as the increased revenue from the new general sales tax (GST) and higher non-tax
revenue more than offset the decline in customs duties.
4.            On the external side, the current account deficit, after a dramatic decline from
11.6 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6.5 percent in 1994, narrowed further to an estimated 3.7 percent
in 1995, mainly reflecting the strong performance in exports. Merchandise exports increased by
14 percent in 1994 and 24 percent in 1995, based on an expansion in quantity and higher prices
of fertilizers and potash exports and a strong performance of nontraditional exports, which grew
by almost 30 percent. Imports actually declined in 1994, but showed a marked shift in favor of
raw materials and capital equipment, which allowed for sustained economic expansion. This
shift continued in 1995; while total imports increased by 9.5 percent, raw material imports grew
by 27 percent. Service receipts also registered a significant improvement in 1995, with tourism
revenue up by 24 percent and remittances by 13 percent. The capital account improved during
1994 and showed a surplus in 1995 due to increased disbursement of loans by official creditors.
Private foreign investment inflows remained modest, while other private capital inflows are on a
declining trend.
5.            Monetary policy in 1994-95 was geared toward maintaining the attractiveness of
JD-denominated financial assets, in support of a stable exchange rate policy with the JD tightly
linked to the US dollar. Following pressure on official foreign exchange reserves, the Central
Bank of Jordan (CBJ) raised domestic interest rates starting in July 1994 and maintained
subsequent interest differentials of about 300 basis points in favor of JD-denominated financial
assets relative to foreign. By January 1996 further increases in domestic rates had extended this
spread to 400 basis points.
MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS' AND FINANCING PLAN
6.            The Government has formulated an adjustment and reform program for the
period 1995-98, which is being supported by a new IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and by
the Bank through a set of ERDLs. The medium-term program aims at: (a) sustaining past GDP
growth rates of at least 6 percent, consistent with the objectives of improving living standards
and expanding employment opportunities; (b) sustaining export growth of about 10 percent p.a.;
Key Economic Indicators are presented in Annex IV.



-3-
(c) maintaining inflation rates in line with those of industrial countries; (d) narrowing the
external current account deficit to below 3 percent of GDP, which would contribute to lowering
the debt and debt-service burden over the medium term; and (e) building up international
reserves to the equivalent of three months of imports. A further build-up of reserves is envisaged
in order to guard against a possible redemption of JDs circulating in the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG).
7.           The Government has aimed to achieve these growth and stabilization objectives
by: (a) steadily reducing the fiscal deficit through containing recurrent expenditures, improving
the financial position of public enterprises, and improving the revenue performance; (b)
improving management of domestic credit, and maintaining a moderate pace of credit expansion
in line with GDP growth; (c) maintaining stable and consistent interest and exchange rate
policies; and (d) accelerating structural reforms to spur private-sector-based and export-led
growth and investment.
8.           To achieve the GDP growth targets, investments in the order of 34 percent of
GDP would be required, with private investment playing an increased role (around 28 percent of
GDP). Together with the envisaged external current account adjustment to below 3 percent of
GDP, such an investment target will require sustained domestic savings. With the fiscal deficit
targeted at 2.5 percent of GDP in 1998, domestic private savings will need to sustain its level of
at least 14 percent. This assumes that workers' remittances will stay at about 20 percent of GDP,
a prospect not unlikely, given the recently intensified efforts to normalize the relationship with
Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states.
9.           In view of the Government's export-oriented reform program, exports of goods
and non-factor services are projected to increase by about 10 percent p.a. in real terms, while
imports are estimated to grow in line with GDP. This would allow for an increase in per capita
real consumption of about 3.5 percent during the medium term, as compared with an annual
decline of 4 percent during 1994-95. Such an increase, together with expanding employment
opportunities, should make the reform program politically acceptable and socially sustainable.
10.          Despite further significant adjustment, substantial financing gaps in the order of
$300-400 million p.a. are projected in the next two years. However, if export growth of 10
percent is realized and the Government moves rapidly on its privatization agenda, Jordan's
exceptional financing gaps could well cease by 1999. The short-term financing gap is, to a large
extent, caused by the JD redemption from WBG (in the order of $500 million) and the need to
build up international reserves to provide a cushion against uncertainties regarding regional
developments. As such, the financing gap does not arise primarily from a need to cover current
account deficits. A higher level of quick disbursing Bank lending, as well as assistance from the
donor community to deal with the rather unique redemption problem, may be required in order to
achieve program targets.
11.          Debt and Creditworthiness. Jordan has managed its external debt with a view
to restoring its access to world financial markets. As a result of decreasing new borrowing, debt
buy-backs at substantial discounts, and debt reductions totaling US$800 million to date, the
debt/GDP ratio has been reduced from 180 percent in 1991 to 105 percent in 1995, and is
expected to fall to about 70 percent by 2000 on the assumptions that exports would grow rapidly,
that private sector (and foreign) investment would accelerate, and that remittance income would
be maintained at current levels in real terms.



-4 -
12.          With a strong adjustment and structural reform program in place, Jordan is
expected to enter the ranks of moderately indebted countries within the next couple of years, as
the ratio of the net present value (NPV) of debt to GDP is about to fall below the 80 percent
mark and the NPV of debt to exports ratio below 100 percent. The debt service to exports ratio
at 18 percent is well below the 25 percent mark, where liquidity concerns arise. In October
1995, international commercial credit ratings were for the first time assigned to Jordan's foreign
currency debt by Moody's and Standard & Poor (S&P). Jordan is the first country in the Arab
world to receive a credit rating from S&P and the second country, after Tunisia, to receive one
from Moody's. Given a reform-minded Government, high growth, privatization, the prospect of
expanded economic activities with its neighbors, prospective gains from the EU Mediterranean
initiative, normalization of relations with the Gulf states, and a highly educated workforce,
Jordan should be in a position to attract increasing flows of foreign investment capital.
PART II. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
13.          The Government's Economic and Social Development Plan for 1993-1997
stipulated a range of broad principles which are intended to guide the future course of the
national economy. The first principle is the "liberalization of the economy and its institutions,
elimination of distortions obstructing sound economic performance, and development of an
appropriate investment climate. ,,2
14.          In a subsequent medium-term policy framework paper, the Government in
September 1995 further articulated and updated its vision of the path to an open, competitive,
business-friendly environment for the end of the 1990s. The goal would be to deepen and extend
macroeconomic stabilization, trade liberalization, financial sector reform, legislative reform, and
adapt the role of the state to promote a better climate for private sector development and
competitive investments.
15.          Maintaining macroeconomic stability would provide the necessary basis for
structural and sectoral reforms which would reduce the reliance on external financing, redress
long-term structural imbalances, and enhance the prospects for sustainable long-run growth. In
this regard, the Government plans to gradually convert the GST adopted in 1994 into a full value
added tax, strengthening the incentive to save. The new Income Tax Law, which was adopted in
1995, rationalizes the tax structure and encourages corporate and personal savings. Continued
adoption of strong fiscal adjustment measures, and reforms of public enterprises, would boost
public sector savings. The Government will also continue to adopt and improve indirect
monetary control mechanisms, such as open market operations, to reduce the costs of financial
intermediation and to improve the incentives for financial savings.
16.          Extending trade liberalization and greater integration into world markets
would create the incentives for firms to improve their efficiency and technical standards so as to
2Economic and Social Development Plan 1993-1997, Ministry of Planning, 1993, pp. 103-104.



realize their export potential. In this regard, the Government is actively: (a) assuring potential
investors of its medium-term trade liberalization objectives; (b) negotiating accession to the
World Trade Organization (WTO); (c) negotiating a Partnership Agreement with the European
Union (EU); (e) further reducing the level and dispersion of tariffs and eliminating most tariff
exemptions; (f) setting internationally accepted product standards; (g) streamlining customs
procedures; and (h) improving the duty drawback and temporary admission mechanisms for
imported inputs to export production.
17.          Financial sector deepening - efficiently providing a variety of financial
services for investors and savers to choose from - in order to mobilize savings for real sector
growth, channel them to the best investments, and enable the financial sector to become a growth
center in its own right to enable it to compete in serving the regional economies. The
Government's reforms are designed to improve competition and efficiency in this sector; and
will foster the development of long-term financing instruments, both equity and debt, which are
not yet widely available. To this end, the Government is formulating, or has begun to
implement, plans to: (a) enhance banking competition; (b) reduce credit subsidies; (c) strengthen
bank supervision; (d) facilitate the access of companies to corporate bond financing, and the
development of secondary markets for long-term papers; (e) facilitate the development of non-
bank financial institutions, such as leasing, factoring, and venture capital companies; (f)
completely modernize and computerize trading in shares and the structure of the Amman
Financial Market; (g) lift restrictions on the foreign exchange interbank market; and (h) facilitate
the development of contractual savings institutions (insurance and pension funds), and
strengthen their role as suppliers of long-term finance.
18.          The Government is convinced that long-run sustainable growth rests on a
growing role of the private sector and redefinition of the role of the state in the economy. To
this end, Government policy actions will focus first on liberalizing the regulatory framework
affecting business entry, operation (including pricing policy), and exit; as well as separating
policy, regulatory, and business operation functions. In August 1995, Parliament passed a new
Telecommunications Law creating a separate independent regulatory body and opening the
sector to domestic and foreign private investors. Parliament has also amended the Income Tax
Law and the GST Law, and enacted a new Investment Law. The latter has made approval of
investments more automatic, removed the ceiling on foreign investment except for a limited
number of strategic sectors, granted national treatment to foreign investors, adopted international
practice in dispute settlement, and created more efficient tax incentives for investors. The
Government has revised the Customs Law and the entire complex of business laws. In a second,
overlapping phase, the Government intends to privatize public enterprises and divest
Government holdings in public shareholding companies. It is already selling its shares in hotels,
and has announced its intention to privatize the Jordan Telecommunications Corporation, the
Jordan Electricity Authority, and Jordan Cement Factories.
19.          An important concomitant measure is to ensure that the reforms are politically
and socially robust and to address poverty in the short term through the provision of
compensatory mechanisms (consistent with the outward-oriented growth goal) for the poor and
those who may suffer temporarilyfrom these reforms. A vital short-term approach would be to
improve the efficiency of the existing social safety nets. These, supported by Governmental
agencies and NGOs, include cash transfers, health care subsidies, food coupons, aid to the
disabled and orphans, in-kind grants, and employment through income-generating projects. The



- 6 -
Bank's recent Poverty Assessment of Jordan3 has proposed a number of ways to sharpen the
focus and improve the management of the safety nets so as to protect the vulnerable poor most
efficiently and effectively. These include centralizing screening activities, shifting the food
coupon program to a better targeted income-based scheme and increasing benefits, and
strengthening NGOs and the coordination among them. Recently the general bread subsidy was
replaced by better-targeted cash transfers. In addition, IFC has started working on a micro-
enterprise operation targeted to the poor, and the Bank will follow up on the Poverty Assessment
with a view to supporting further measures directed specifically at some pockets of poverty. It
should be noted, however, that poverty in Jordan is "shallow" and that the most effective way of
alleviation is through broad-based economic growth.
20.          In support of the Government's medium-term adjustment and structural reform
program, the IMF approved a three-year EFF in May 1994 (SDR 127 million). The Bank
supported the program through an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in FY93 and an
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan in FY94. The adjustment efforts have been supported also
by successive debt rescheduling (March, 1992 and July 1994) through the Paris Club, by a Debt
and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) operation with the London Club, and a debt buy-back
arrangement with the former Soviet Union. Official bilateral debt reductions were granted by
several creditor countries (e.g., US, UK, Germany, and France) in the order of $800 million.
Substantial donor assistance was mobilized through three Consultative Group (CG) meetings
(January 1993, May 1994, and July 1996).
21.          In order to further support the Government's reforms, the Bank approved the
First Economic reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I) in the amount of $80 million in
October 1995 with co-financing of $80 million from Japan and $12 million from Italy. After
successful completion of scheduled reviews under the EFF program, the Fund in February 1996
replaced the previous EFF ahead of time with a new one, in an amount equivalent to SDR 200.8
million, which represents 55 percent of Jordan's quota on an annual basis. The proposed ERDL-
1I would support the continuation of the rapid reform pace.
THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM FOR 1996
22.          Consistent with the medium-term macroeconomic objectives, the program for
1996 aims at: (a) sustaining the growth of real GDP at about 6.5 percent; (b) containing inflation
to 3.5 percent, despite the impact of indirect tax increases and reduction in subsidies; (c)
reducing the external current account deficit further to below 4 percent of GDP; and (d)
providing for an additional foreign exchange reserve build-up of about US$150 million, thus
bringing official foreign exchange reserves to about US$620 million (equivalent to about 2
months of imports) by end-1996. An additional reserve build-up of about US$300 million
related to the possible redemption of JDs circulating in the WBG is also envisaged, which would
raise total official foreign exchange reserves to about US$900 million. The achievement of these
objectives hinges critically on continued fiscal consolidation and a tight monetary policy,
ensuring the competitiveness of the Jordanian economy; on a strengthening of structural reforms;
and on the provision of external financing on appropriate terms.
' Report 12675-JO, "Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Poverty Assessment", October, 1994.



-7 -
23.          Continued fiscal consolidation remains central to the Government's efforts to
further stabilize the economy. Fiscal policy aims at further reducing the budget deficit while
simultaneously improving the efficiency of the tax system and the quality of Government
expenditure. To this end, a number of measures have been taken recently. In September 1995,
several amendments to the GST law were approved by Parliament with a view to improving the
design and operation of the system. These included an increase in the basic tax rate from 7
percent to 10 percent, a tax rebate for inputs if the exported final good is tax exempt, extension
of the positive list of services subject to GST, voluntary registration of taxpayers below a certain
threshold, and provisions for introducing a supplementary duty on alcohol, tobacco, and luxury
products to protect revenue in the context of the planned tariff reform. Amendments to the
Income Tax Law were also approved by Parliament in September 1995. Under the new
legislation, improvements included the elimination of tax holidays (except for less-developed
areas); limitation of tax deductibility to net interest payments; reduction of the maximum tax
rates for personal and corporate income taxes from 50 percent to 30 percent and from 55 percent
to 35 percent, respectively, and in the number of other tax rates; rationalization of corporate tax
rates by establishing three flat tax rates of 15 percent for companies in encouraged sectors, 35
percent for banks and financial institutions and 25 percent for all other companies; and
encouragement of capital accumulation by imposing a withholding tax of 10 percent on
distributed profits.
24.          Consistent with the macroeconomic objectives for 1996, the overall fiscal deficit
will be further reduced to 4.1 percent of GDP. Government revenues are projected at 30.9
percent of GDP. The recent increase in the GST rate from 7 to 10 percent will more than
compensate the revenue losses resulting from the amendments to the personal income tax law
and reductions in customs duties. Expenditures are budgeted to decline from 36.5 percent of
GDP in 1995 to 35 percent of GDP in 1996. To this end, the Government has reduced the cost of
the food subsidy program. The Government is ready to introduce additional fiscal measures to
ensure attainment of the overall fiscal balance target should need be.
25.          Regarding budgetary and public sector reforms, the Government will take
administrative measures to improve the operation of the GST system. It will also formulate a
plan for a comprehensive civil service reform program, with a view to containing the wage bill,
and in the meantime limit new hiring to fill only half of new vacancies (with most new hiring
being in education and health sectors) as well as hire only on a contractual basis. In 1996,
subsidies for wheat and animal feed have been replaced with a cash transfer scheme, and
targeting of subsidies for sugar, rice and powdered milk was improved by lowering the ceiling
for eligibility, reducing the number of beneficiaries by about 150,000. Effective January 1,
1996, the income eligibility threshold for coupons (currently at JD 500 per month) has been
based on household income instead of on the income of the household head only. Concurrently,
the Government will increase cash transfers to the poor through the National Assistance Fund
(NAF). To enhance the effectiveness of the social safety net, the Government is formulating a
plan to expand gradually the operations of the NAF to cover all poor, whether working or non-
working, starting in 1996, and to refine the present system of means-testing for food coupons in
1996, for implementation in 1997.
26.          The Government remains committed to broad nominal stability of the JD vis-a-
vis the US dollar. Monetary policy is thus geared to maintaining the relative attractiveness of
JD-denominated assets vis-a-vis foreign currency-denominated assets through increased
responsiveness in interest rate policy in support of the exchange rate policy. In January 1996,



- 8 -
interest rates were raised by 50 basis points. Consistent with the proposed program targets,
domestic credit expansion will be determined with a view to containing monetary expansion at a
slower rate than that of nominal GDP growth.
27.          Informal estimates of the volume of JD denominated currency and demand
deposit holdings in the WBG center around JD 350 million ($500 million). Over the medium
term, there will be a cost to Jordan in the form of foregone seignorage resulting from declining
demand for JDs as WBG residents replace their JD holdings with a possible Palestinian currency.
The prospects for an orderly and negotiated transition through a formal redemption operation
increased after the signing of an agreement between Jordan and the Palestinian Authority on
January 26, 1995. The exact timing of the issuance of an own currency for WBG is unclear.
However, informal redemption has begun already. This has lead to a shift out of JDs and a run
on Jordan's foreign exchange reserves, as reputedly happened in April-June 1994 and again in
October 1995. The CBJ at that time announced the JD's tight link to the dollar in order to instill
more confidence in the currency.
28.          The CBJ counteracted the latest attack with an increase in interest rates to 9.5
percent (6-month CDs), which has stabilized the situation. The CBJ is clearly committed to the
stable JD/$ exchange rate, that basically has prevailed since the depreciation in 1989. The real
exchange rate has appreciated by only 2 percent since then. The macroeconomic fundamentals
would not call for a currency realignment for the moment. However, real interest rates in the
order of 10 percent or more for business loans may well start to affect Jordan's steady growth
performance.
THE PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY ERDL-II
29.          The proposed Loan provides continued support from  the Bank for the
Government's strong reform program which attempts to generate foreign exchange earnings that
are sufficient to promote investment and growth and a level of foreign exchange reserves that are
sufficient to withstand major external shocks. The Government's strategy calls for promoting
and sustaining a high level of exports of goods and services, attracting an adequate level of direct
foreign investment, and attracting strategic foreign investors to some at the privatized enterprises
to enhance efficiency and competitiveness.
30.          The reform package associated with the proposed Loan supports exactly this
strategy-- increased competition; removal of an inherent anti-export bias, a modern,
computerized financial system; best-practice business laws; and prudent privatization.
Collectively, this package would profoundly boost the supply-side of the Jordanian economy and
enable private businesses to reap the foreign exchange income from potential markets in
neighboring countries and in the EU, with whom a partnership and free trade agreement is about
to be signed. Similarly, privatization, in addition to increasing efficiency and investment, could
fetch large amounts of foreign currency, which would contribute directly to strengthening of the
international reserves position.
31.          Nevertheless, reforms need time to take effect, and privatization of large
enterprises is complex. -Bank projections show that the current financing gap can be closed by
about 1999. In the interim period, however, Jordan will need the support of the Bank, the Fund,
and the international donor community. The proposed ERDL-II, backed by donor co-financing,



- 9 -
would demonstrate the international community's dedication toward resolving Jordan's short-
term plight as well as its support for Jordan's long-term development.
TRADE POLICY
32.          As a result of reforms undertaken since 1989 the transparency of the trade regime
has been greatly enhanced. Currently, the only instrument of protection is the tariff; import quotas,
bans and licensing have all been eliminated. The average level of protection and the dispersion of
tariffs have also been reduced significantly through the partial removal of exemptions and a
reduction in the maximum tariff to 50 percent. Nevertheless, some anti-export bias continues to
prevail. To correct this bias, the Government is continuing to reduce import tariffs and open the
economy to foreign trade. Ongoing negotiations with the EU to establish a reciprocal free trade
agreement for manufactured goods are expected to be concluded this year, and efforts are being
made to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO).
33.          Trade policy reforms supported by ERDL-II are designed to encourage export-
oriented investment and production by reducing tariffs (maximum tariff and tariffs on capital
goods) and by facilitating trade (through the adoption of measures to speed customs clearance).
34.          In order to simplify the tariff structure and increase transparency, three tariff bands
(16, 21; and 25) will be eliminated, bringing the total to six (0, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40). Fees and
surcharges that are additional to the tariff will be consolidated into the tariff. With the exception of
alcohol and tobacco, the maximum tariff will be reduced to 40 percent. In the case of motor
vehicles, this will be accompanied by the adoption of additional sales taxes to ensure that the
change is revenue neutral. Tariffs on a set of 492 capital goods will be reduced to zero, and the
Government is considering reducing to 10 percent tariffs on an additional 218 capital goods,
including computer and telecommunications equipment.
35.          The Government will not introduce any more tariff exemptions nor renew current
exemptions. In the medium-term this would help offset the revenue loss from tariff reduction and
further harmonize the incentive regime confronting investors. In conjunction with accession to
WTO an amendment will also be made to the GST Law to equalize sales tax levies on imports
versus domestically produced goods, eliminating existing exceptions for domestic producers of
clothing, shoes, fumiture, and alcohol.
36.          The second major component of the reform program concems facilitation of
customs clearance. Chief among the important actions being undertaken by the Government in this
area is the drafting of a new Customs law based on intemational best practices. In addition, a
WTO-consistent Safeguard Law is about to be submitted to Parliament. This Law could be invoked
should social and economic pressures in the economy as a whole require that a domestic industry be
granted extra time to adjust to trade liberalization. Actions designed to avoid delay and uncertainty
concerning customs clearance include improvements in temporary entry and duty drawback
systems, revisions in the bonus system for Customs officials, the acceptance and clearance by
Customs of imports that have undergone pre-shipment certification by accredited certification
bodies, a "Green Channel" for easy clearance of imports used in production for exports, as well as
an important ongoing three-year program to further simplify procedures, computerize customs, and
upgrade and expand training facilities for customs officials being supported by GTZ.



- 10 -
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
37.          Jordan has a well developed financial system. The banking sector is generally
prudent, competitive, well regulated, and strongly capitalized. There is a fairly sizable securities
market with many listed companies, although trading volumes and market liquidity are relatively
low. The insurance sector is expanding, while the social security system is in sound financial
position with considerable accumulated funds and positive real investment returns.
38.          Government policy in the financial sector is directed towards improving
competition and efficiency, strengthening prudential regulation and supervision of all segments
of the system, promoting the development of non-bank financial institutions such as leasing,
factoring and venture capital companies as well as mutual funds and contractual savings
institutions (insurance companies and pension funds), and facilitating company access to the
corporate bond market.
39.          Prudential supervision of the insurance sector will be strengthened through the
development of the existing Insurance Control Department within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry into an Insurance Supervision Agency with clearly specified inspection and intervention
powers. A new securities law is drafted that will create the Jordan Securities and Exchange
Commission and two independent private sector bodies, the Amman Securities Exchange and the
Amman Clearing, Settlement, and Depository Company, thereby separating the regulatory
functions from the technical side of the market. A contract has been signed with the Paris
Bourse, which will result in complete computerization of securities trading, clearing and
settlement, and depository systems during the next 14 months.
40.          Within the banking sector, the Government has agreed on a number of actions
designed to equalize treatment among institutions and sectors. The subsidy component embodied
in the current set of rediscount and advance rates established by the Central Bank to support the
development of agriculture, small handicraft and industry, municipal infrastructure, low-income
housing, and exports will be eliminated gradually, except for a maximum of 2 percentage points for
exports, agriculture, and handicraft and industry. With the elimination of the subsidy element the
Central Bank rediscounting mechanism would remain available, but at market rates of interest.
41.          The Government recognizes that the changing financial environment, including
greater exposure to exchange and interest rate risks and to competition, necessitates a continuous
review and improvement of supervisory methods and procedures as well as prudential regulations.
The proposed Loan would support the Government's plan to move away from direct intervention in
the day-to-day operation of the banks and give the banks sufficient degree of freedom to manage
their portfolio within pre-set ratios. In that respect, the CBJ has already eliminated prior approval
of foreign currency lending by exporters and is reviewing ways of substituting discretion with
transparent rules for the non-export sectors.
42.          The Housing Bank has been made subject to the same Central Bank regulation and
supervision as applied to other banks. In addition, draft legislation has been submitted to Cabinet
to remove all other privileges enjoyed by the Housing Bank, consistent with maintaining its
obligations to low income housing. The draft legislation will include a provision that any subsidy
will be made available through a tax credit to the Housing Bank. Such a tax credit would not



exceed the current subsidy extended by the Housing Bank to low income housing. Likewise, as
other mechanisms for financial industry are developed (e.g. secured financing, leasing, venture
capital, etc.) the Government will move toward integration of IDB within the banking system. In
addition, ERDL-II (through an IDF grant) would support the Government's efforts to establish an
action plan for agricultural and micro-enterprise finance that would not just extend the needed
financing but also help develop the overall financial sector and mobilize savings in rural areas, and
would also support the Government's efforts to formulate a time-bound action plan for
restructuring the ACC.
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
43.           Jordanian state-owned enterprises are concentrated in the infrastructure sectors
(transport, electricity, water, and telecommunications). In addition, through the Jordanian
Investment Corporation (JIC), the state-owned investment arm, the Government has substantial
share-ownership in mining and cement companies listed on the stock-market, and minority
share-holdings in a number of small and medium-sized companies across several sectors,
including various financial institutions.
44.           Privatization efforts previously have been carried out in an ad hoc and
decentralized fashion by several ministries and agencies:   The Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications has launched an effort to corporatize TCC (Telecommunications Corp.),
and the Ministry of Transport has taken initiatives to restructure ARC (Aqaba Railways
Company) and PTC (Public Transport Company). While JIC has launched several privatization
initiatives, only the sale of two hotels have been transacted. This limited success is attributable
to JIC's limited technical capacity in privatization matters and the absence of a clear mandate
and guidelines from the Government. In addition, there is some opposition to privatization based
on concerns about possible increases in prices and unemployment, and non-transparency of
procedures. In order to accelerate progress in privatization, the Government is designing
programs that address these concerns explicitly and is issuing clear procedural guidelines
mandated by the newly established inter-ministerial privatization committee, and is establishing
a Privatization Implementation Office with the responsibility of coordinating the various
privatization initiatives and ensuring transparency.
45.           While the full implementation of the privatization program will take over two
years, during the first phase, the Government has accomplished the following: (a) decision to
sell a 26 percent stake of TCC to a strategic investor, registration of TCC as a public
shareholding company under the Companies Law, and satisfactory progress toward the
recruitment of financial advisors to undertake a valuation of TCC, market the firm to investors,
and execute its privatization; (b) the registration of Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) as a public
shareholding company under the Companies Law; the decision to divest Irbid District Electricity
Company (IDECO) and Jordan Electric Power Company (JEPCO) and separate the electric
distribution net from JEA; (c) the acceleration of efforts to privatize ARC; (d) decision to sell a
20 percent stake of Jordan Cement Factories to a strategic investor; (e) the continuation of
privatization efforts within JIC, with two loss-making enterprises being liquidated; and (f)
decision to privatize the Public Transport Corporation (PTC); and (g) progress on awarding a
concession to the private sector management and investment in the Main Spa Complex.



- 12 -
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
46.          ERDL-I supported the establishment of a business-enabling investment law with
strengthened investment incentives; and new laws that would allow for privatization in the
energy and telecommunication sectors. The GST Law was amended in order to increase the rate
to 10 percent to counter-balance revenue losses from tariff reductions, and tax rebates were
introduced for exporters. Furthermore, the Income Tax Law amendment established three flat
corporate tax rates--i5, 25, and 35 percent--and introduced a withholding tax of 10 percent on
distributed profits.
47.          The Cabinet, as part of the ERDL-II program, has or is about to approve several
important business laws: Securities Law, Safeguard Law, Companies Law, and Customs Law.
The latter two already have been transmitted to Parliament. Drafting of a Competition Law, and
a Secured Financing and Leasing Law is at an advanced stage. Ensuring coherence and
consistency among this complex of laws was an over-arching concern.
48.          As noted above, the new Securities Law separates the regulatory and operational
functions of the AFM. The Law calls for the establishment of a regulatory body--the Jordan
Securities and Exchange Commission--appointed by the Council of Ministers and with broad and
well-defined powers over non-banking financial services. The Law would accommodate modem
computerized trading by stipulating that (share) ownership does not require the possession of a
certificate (scrip).
49.          The Companies Law has been amended such that: (a) approval requirements for
several sector-specific economic activities are abolished; (b) company registration requirements
simplified; (c) other excessively centralized and duplicated licensing requirements abolished;
and (d) corporate governance and finance improved. Current obstacles for leasing, factoring, and
venture capital companies, and such institutions have been removed. Furthermore, the
Government has decided to remove tax on retained earnings and reserves that are converted into
paid-up capital. Finally, articles related to securities have been removed from the Companies
Law, and instead are addressed in the new Securities Law.
50.          A proposed Secured Financing and Leasing Law will permit additional types of
property, especially movables, to be used as collateral.  The Law enables the creation,
registration, and liquidation of collateral security on movable property such as machinery,
inventory, and receivables. Under the new law a lender or other credit grantor (e.g., a seller of
goods) can secure its loan by creating a security interest in movable property (e.g., equipment,
inventory, receivables) and enforce its interest through a simple system of automated notice
registration which establishes the lender's priority and prevents double use of assets for
collateral. The law encourages lending, expands the number of financial instruments and
encourages growth through leverage of property. The Law will also provide an appropriate legal
framework for leasing, factoring, and venture capital companies.
51.          The new Customs Law is consistent with WTO and establishes the principle of
invoice-based valuation of goods combined with a post-auditing system. The principle of self-
declaration will be implemented upon completion of computerization of customs. The Law
allows for voluntary pre-shipment valuation by international companies as well as a "green
channel" for exporters. In addition, a WTO consistent Safeguard Law will be established for the
first time.



- 13 -
52.          The Government recognizes the importance of enacting an up-to-date
Competition Law in order to maintain and encourage competition in domestic markets and foster
economic efficiency and consumer welfare. Furthermore, the Law addresses issues related to
entry barriers to business, and advocate sound business practices and ethics.  Effective
implementation of such a law would also enhance the flexibility and the competitiveness of
Jordanian industry in an increasingly globalized market environment, and position it to meet
some of the requirements of an association agreement with the European Union.
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
53.          Design of the Loan. The proposed loan is designed as a single tranche loan to
support policy actions taken prior to Board presentation. It responds to a Government request for
support for its intensified adjustment efforts. It would represent a continuation of the support
provided under ERDL-I, recognizing the successful policy performance under that loan and the
comprehensive program of medium-term structural reform, described above, that has already
been initiated. The proposed ERDL-II and the ongoing EFF are complementary. Privatization,
trade liberalization, legislative reform, and other measures to improve enterprise and financial
market efficiency, supported by the Bank, will complement macroeconomic stability established
in the context of the EFF program.
54.          The proposed loan is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) discussed by the Board on October 24, 1995. The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance
under the CAS is the series of three adjustment operations to support rapid introduction of broad
economic reforms. This program, of which ERDL-II is the second in the series, is phased to help
cover the annual financing gap during approximately four years of reforms.
55.          Loan Objectives. An important policy direction supported by this loan is the
removal of remaining trade and investment barriers paving the way for higher economic growth
and export earnings, a closer trade relation (an Association Agreement) with the European Union
(EU), and accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Further objectives are to broaden
and deepen financial intermediation, to provide an enabling business environment and increase the
private sector's share of the economy through privatization of public and publicly-owned
enterprises. This is expected to reduce uncertainty, raise the level and efficiency of investments and
lead to accelerated growth. Furthermore, the proposed loan would provide Jordan with short-term
balance of payments support in order to strengthen its international reserves position.
56.          Loan Description. The ERDL-II supports trade and investment policy reforms to:
(a) further reduce anti-export bias, to foster integration with world markets, and reduce
administrative obstacles that raise the cost of trading activity through tariff reductions, elimination
of exemptions, and modernization of the Customs Law and administration; (b) improve banking
competition and the efficiency of financial intermediation; (c) improve viability of financial
institutions and eliminate special privileges that distort the financial sector; (d) encourage long-term
saving and promote development of new financial instruments and markets; (e) encourage entry,
improve incentives, and offer national treatment to foreign investors; (f) modernize a broad range
of business laws; and (g) improve opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, allow



- 14 -
the Government to concentrate on its core functions, and achieve greater efficiency through
privatization and restructuring.
57.           Benefits. The ERDL-II would support the deepening and acceleration of the
Government's ongoing economic reform and development program. It would: (a) strengthen the
incentives for export production through reducing the import costs of capital goods and
intermediate goods; (b) benefit domestic consumers by lowering the costs of imported consumption
goods; (c) give a boost to GDP and national income growth; (d) improve resource efficiency and
raise factor productivity; (e) help Jordan to attract direct foreign and domestic investment; (f)
facilitate Jordan's move toward closer trade relations with the EU and regional economies; and (g)
support Jordan's balance of payments financing requirements.
58.           Risks. The main risk is political and associated with possible reversals in the
regional peace process. Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected by external shocks in
terms of possible adverse capital movements or changes in the external demand for Jordanian
goods and services. There is also the risk that despite the expectation that reforms would benefit
the bulk of the population, vested interests may succeed in arguing against the reforms due to
misconceived social and political risks from lowering of trade protection and privatization.
59.           The Government has maintained a delicate balance between economic reforms and
political stability since 1989. The political liberalization initiated has provided a democratic
process for conflict resolution, thus contributing to social and political stability. The Government's
appreciation of the political feasibility of the reforms has been factored into the program (e.g. in the
phasing of reforms), thereby reducing risks to program implementation.
60.           Maintaining the macroeconomic framework, including a flexible exchange rate
and interest rate policy stance, would enable Jordan to better cope with external shocks that could
take place from changes of capital flows. The assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework has
been secured with the successful implementation of the Fund EFF program.
61.           Poverty Impact. Even though poverty is not directly targeted, the overall impact
on poverty of the reform program, and the breathing space the loan provides, is expected to be
favorable as higher growth in the private sector would create new jobs and expand employment.
Adjustments in the labor market may, however, be accentuated in the short term as large public
sector companies are privatized.  The privatization strategy would address such issues as
severance payments, early retirements, and programs for redeploying and retraining of workers
through its design, but it is important to keep in mind that a key purpose of privatization is to
expand infra-structure services. For example, the desired expansion of telephone services from
300,000 lipes currently to 1,200,000 lines is likely to be job-creating in at least two ways: (a)
construction of the lines; and (b) a growth-enhancing business environment. Nevertheless,
subsidies, be it for food or housing, are expected to be better targeted, as agreed under the IMF
EFF program. Concurrently, the proposed ERDL-II will commission a study to address the
question of better extension of finance to farmers and small- and micro-enterprises. In addition,
IFC has started working on a micro-enterprise operation targeted on the poor, and the Bank will
follow up on the Poverty Assessment with a view to supporting further measures directed
specifically at some pockets of poverty. It should be noted, however, that poverty in Jordan is
"shallow" and that the most effective way of dealing with it is through broad-based economic
growth.



- 15 -
62.          Financing Plan.   The Government has requested co-financing from  the
Netherlands in the order of $9 million equivalent. The EU is supporting the reforms with financing
in the order of ECU 100 million.
63.          Disbursement. The Borrower will open an account in CBJ. Upon effectiveness,
proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the Borrower. If
after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative
list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel
an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. Although routine audit of the account will not be
required, the Bank reserves the right to require it.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
64.          I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments
November 14, 1996
Washington, DC



I



Annex I
N o   .   .......A..............    ........................
......... . ....... .  .. ......... .... . ..  .,s,.                  :   l  v lj
Date .1-1 ....                                                               ..LiIi11f-
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
MINISTER'S OFFICE
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Jordan's Reform Program to build Sustainable Development
1.    The Government of the Hashernite Kingdom of Jordan wishes to reiterate its commitment
to continue the implementation of the ongoing Economic Reform Program with its primary aim to
strengthen the base upon which sustainable development could be built. We also wish to confirm
our intention to seek financial assistance from the World Bank under the proposed Second
Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I1), a one tranche operation  of US$ 120
million. The reforms to be supported through this loan would further strengthen Jordan's ability
to attract foreign and domestic private sector investments; enhance external orientation of the
economy; boost its export potential; enhance government's privatization efforts; and achieve vital
legislative reforms to facilitate the change process. I am also pleased to note that our reform
program has again been endorsed by the International Monetary Fund through the continuation of
the existing Extended Fund Facility (EFF) covering 1996 through 1998. This letter consists of
two parts: an overview of our most recent performances, and an update of the Government's
medium-tern strategy.
L OVERVIEW
2.    Almost one year ago, we subrmitted to you a letter of Development Policy in support of
ERDL-I outlining an ambitious program of reforms. We are immnensely pleased to note here that
we have successfully achieved our targets. Presented below is a summary of the recent economic
performance and a presentation of the important milestones we have already covered in our march
to achieve self reliance.
AO/It EA N-V    I -t  fU         f '   >   MINPYt t    '.,-NPcYNC .'..% :,r5L' NPC:  ',~ lulr:ll j
P. 0. Box sss Cable NPC Telex 21319 NPC Jo, 24258 MINP Jo Telfax: 649341 Tel: 6,44466/70 * 644381/83



Annex I                                                               Page 2 of 16
3.    Economic Growth. Jordan's economy has shown consistent growth since 1992
when the reform program was rejuvenated after the Gulf crisis. Real growth, over the
last three years, has been maintained at an average of 6 percent. Preliminary estimates of
GDP for 1996 show a growth of about 5.9 percent, led mainly by the increases in the
output of agriculture, tourism and mining sectors. During 1995, inflation remained
below 4 percent and the external current account deficit was reduced to lestbhan 4
percent of GDP and is expected to be further reduced to 3.1 percent in 1996. The
export sector also continued to show improvement. Merchandise exports increased by
14 percent in 1994 and by 25 percent in 1995; the latter showed a strong performance
of nontraditional exports which expanded by 24 percent. Import payments declined in
nominal terms in 1994, but showed a shift in favor of raw materials and capital
equipment, which allowed for sustained economic expansion during 1995-96. This shift
continued in 1995, with imports going up by about 10 percent, but those of raw
materials increasing by 34.6 percent. While the trade deficit has come down in 1995
from the previous year, it still remains high at about 29 percent of GDP but lower than
the 41 percent recorded in 1992. The Government expects that its trade policies will
bring it down to manageable levels over the next three to five years.
4.    Macro-economic Stability. Maintaining macroeconomic stability provided a
solid base to pursue structural and sectoral reforms that will gradually improve resource
allocation and factor productivity and enhance the prospects for sustainable long-run
growth. In this regard, we have raised domestic interest rates and tightened the fiscal
expenditures to achieve a stronger level of foreign exchange reserves. To address the
underlying structural imbalances in the internal and external accounts, the Government
intends to gradually shift the General Sales Tax into a full Value Added Tax (VAT), thus
tilting the bias in favor of savings. The basic tax rate was also increased recently from 7
percent to 10 percent. Parliament has approved an amendment to the Income Tax Law
with a view towards rationalizing the tax structure and encouraging corporate and
personal savings. The Government has also implemented and will continue to adopt
strong fiscal adjustment measures, including the reform of public enterprises to boost
public savings. Jordan has adhered to the IMF Article VIII regarding currency
convertibility for current transactions. Steps to liberalize some categories of capital
account transactions have also been initiated by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ). CBJ
has increased reliance on indirect monetary control mechanisms, such as open market
operations, in order to refine credit control mechanisms and to maintain stability in the
foreign exchange market. These measures are expected to promote sustainable long-run
growth by consolidating the macro-economic gains, reducing the reliance on external
financing, and redressing the long-term  structural imbalances.  The Government's
reform program is now well into its implementation phase, and includes major policy and
legislative reforms. The program's three main components are: achieving economic
stabilization, efficiency improvements in the trade regime, and private sector
development including an activeprivatization program.



Annex I
Page 3 of 16
5.    Debt Management. Through  prudent borrowing, debt reduction and debt-
buyback operations, the Government was able to reduce the stock of its external debt to
about 75 percent of its 1991 level. The debt/GDP ratio was reduced from 180 percent in
1991 to 105 percent in 1995. It is further expected to fall to about 77 percent of GDP
by year 2001. The ensuing reduction in debt and debt service is expected to significantly
improve Jordan's creditworthiness; potential for access to world financial markets;
private sector participation in our privatization activities; and investor confidence in the
economy.
6.    Private Sector Development. Mr. President, as you know, our reforms initially
concentrated in the areas of trade, finance, and private sector development. Several
important actions have already been completed to support the objectives of enhancing
the private sector contribution to the economy and to create an enabling environment for
private investment, both domestic and foreign. In this connection, we have recently
enacted a new Investment Law, to make it more responsive to the private sector
initiatives. The Government has removed a number of cumbersome import licensing
requirements, lowered the tariff and rationalized the regime, reduced income taxes and
streamlined tax procedures. In addition, we have passed new laws in the areas of
electricity and telecommunications with a view to opening the sectors up for private
investments and allowing for greater competition on a level playing field.
7.    The government, in conjunction with its policy to reform the public sector
enterprises, has taken a number of initiatives to corporatize and privatize various entities.
However, the responsibility and decision process in this area until now had been
fragmented over various institutions within the Government. In order to centralize and
systemize the approach, the government has recently established a new Privatization Unit
under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister. This unit has been charged with the
responsibiLity to develop a comprehensive privatization strategy and to oversee the
implementation -of all privatization activities in the country. A World Bank grant under
the Institutional Development Fund (IDF) has been secured to assist with the initial
administrative costs of this unit.
8.    Financial Sector. In line with the Government's commitment to provide modern
financial services to the business community, and to promote Jordan as a regional
financial hub, the government has undertaken a serious restructuring effort of the
financial sector. The reform  program has two basic objectives: firstly, to increase the
banking sector's efficiency and improve competition, and secondly, to expand the
availability of medium- to long-term finance for investments. Towards this end, Jordan
has made substantive progress in adapting to international norms on capital adequacy
and prudential regulation. CBJ has made considerable improvement in bank supervision
system by instituting filIl financial disclosure. Furthermore, the CBJ is examining the
issues related to deposit insurance to enhance confidence in the system. The CBJ has
already adopted a number of measures to replace direct credit control with indirect



Annex I
Page 4 of 16
monetary instruments in order to encourage competition among the banks. In 1995, as a
measure of confidence building, the CBJ removed the credit-to-deposit ratio thus
encouraging the evolution of an efficient interbank money market. Finally, a secondary
mortgage facility is now being established with the support of a World Bank project to
further deepen the capital market and provide new financial instruments.
9.    These achievements clearly indicate the strength and comprehensiveness of the
Gover.-nent's reform policy. In addition, the successful implementation of the policies
demonstrates the serious commitment of the Jordanian authorities to undertake difficult
additional measures in response to changing conditions. Uncertainties in the Middle East
Region and the steep increases in the international prices of major food import
commodities such as wheat and barley have made the achievement of fiscal targets even
more difficult. Nevertheless, the government showed its strong commitment to keep the
budget on track and recently implemented a subsidy reform scheme which replaced the
generalized subsidy on wheat, barley and animal feed by a cash transfer to households
meeting the income eligibility criteria. In line with this policy reform, the price of bread
was increased by almost 200 percent from 85 fils to 250 fils per kilogram. This action,
however, was balanced by making available cash transfers to the affected people. We
expect that during 1996 these policy measures will yield an additional one percentage
point reduction in the Government's overall fiscal deficit as percent of GDP.
Medium Term Strategy
10.   Jordan has come a long way in its economic reforms and modernization exercise.
Because of our reform efforts initiated in 1989, today, we stand much closer to
globalizing our economic activity. In addition to our domestic efforts, our success
emanates equally from the collective support we have received from our partners in
development, both multilateral and bilateral institutions. The World Bank's technical as
well as financial assistance has been a paramount factor in this group effort. While the
past achievements have been substantial, the future sustainability of economic growth
remains deeply embedded in our ability to further deepen the reform process. The
government's foreign exchange reserves remain under severe strain caused mainly by the
regional, political, and economic uncertainties. In order to face these challenges and to
take advantage of new opportunities in the region, the Government this year adopted a
more far-reaching macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program. This
program, covering three years (1996-1998), is being supported by a new Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In the second part of this
letter, we have elaborated the specific actions and policy changes that have been taken
to-date to support this program. We have also provided for each area under reform, the
government's medium-term targets to be accomplished over the next two years.



Annex I
page 5 of 16
II. THE DEVELOPMENT AND CONTINUATION OF REFORMIS
11.   A primary objective of the Government's strong reform program remains the
enhancement of its ability to generate sufficient level of foreign exchange earnings to
promote investment and growth, employment opportunities, and to boost foreign
exchange reserves to withstand external shocks. This calls for promoting and sustaining
a high level of exports, attracting an adequate level of foreign investment and improving
investment efficiencies through reduction of unnecessary bureaucratic bottlenecks,
further simplification of customs regulations, enacting business friendly legislation and
proceeding with a well thought through privatization program.
12.   The reform package supported by the proposed ERDL-II, encompasses exactly
this strategy -- increased competition, liberalized trade regime including removal of
any remaining anti-export bias, a modern financial system, and best-practice
business laws. This would enable private businesses to reap the foreign exchange
income from vast potential markets in the region where pre-Gulf war amicable
relationships are now rapidly being restored, and the EU, with whom an association
agreement establishing free trade is about to be signed.  Similarly, privatization, in
addition to increasing efficiency and investment, could generate foreign currency
earnings.
13.   We fully realize that reforms need time to take effect, and privatization of large
enterprises must be well planned and gradual. In the interim period, Jordan needs the
support of the Bank, the Fund, and the international donor community to assure the
sustainability of its economic progress to-date and to discharge its vital responsibility of
making available the basic human needs for its poor and disadvantaged population.
Support provided through the proposed ERDL-II, backed by donor co-financing, would
show the international community's resolve to the resolution of Jordan's short-term
problems.
TRADE POLICY
Background
14.   As a result of reforms undertaken since 1989 the transparency of the trade regime
has been greatly enhanced. Currently the only instrument of protection is the tariff,
import quotas, bans and licensing have all been elirninated.  The average level of
protection and the dispersion of tariffs have also been significantly reduced. This has
been achieved through the partial removal of exemptions and a reduction in the
maximum tariff to 50 percent. The import weighted average tariff rate is now 20
percent, down from 34 percent in 1987.



Annex I
Page 6 of 16
15.   The Governrent recognizes the importance of addressing any remaining anti-
export bias , and intends to alleviate these during next year. Maximum import tariffs
will be further reduced.  Negotiations with the European Union (EU) to estabLish a
reciprocal free trade agreement for manufactured goods are ongoing and are expected to
be concluded very shortly. Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) is also
under active consideration. These are important initiatives that will benefit the Jordanian
economy and provide a clear signal to the international financial markets that the
Government is fully committed to an open market policy stance.
16.   The objective of trade policy reforms is to encourage export-oriented investment
and  production by facilitating trade and reducing tariff protection.  Trade will be
facilitated through the adoption of measures to speed customs clearance, especially for
exporters.  Tariff reduction will center not only on the maximum  tariff but also on
reducing tariff rates on capital goods and further consolidating the number of tariff
bands.
Level and Dispersion of Trade Taxes
17.    Approximately 10 percent of all imports (almost 20 percent of the tariff schedule)
are subject to a 50 percent tariff Moreover, many capital goods and some industrial
inputs are subject to tariffs exceeding 10 percent.  The collected average tariff rate
applying to intermediate inputs (raw materials and components) is still 14 percent. These
relatively high tariffs give rise to an anti-export bias.
18.   The government intends to reduce the maximum tariff to 40 percent, except for
alcohol and tobacco, by January 1, 1997.  In the case of motor vehicles, this will be
accompanied by the adoption of additional general sales taxes to ensure that this is
revenue neutral. In order to simplify the tariff structure and increase transparency, tariff
bands will be reduced from nine to six (0, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40). Fees and surcharges
additional to the tariff will be consolidated into one single charge (band).
19.   Tariffs on a set of 492 capital goods will also be elirminated by January 1, 1997,
with a view to encouraging investment and the use of new technologies and harmonizing
the incentive regime. Currently, investors benefiting from legislated exemptions do not
pay tariffs on these items. Given the difficulty of eliminating the exemptions given under
legal agreements, outright abolition of tariffs will ensure that all investors face the same
conditions. The Government will also reduce tariffs on an additional 218 capital goods.
The affected items are currently subject to tariff ranging up to 50 percent and include
tools of various kinds, computers, and data processing, telecommunications, and
measuring equipment. Also, duties on parts for capital goods will not exceed 30 percent.



Annex I
Page 7 of 16
20.   The Government has reviewed the current tariff exemption policies and has
ceased authorizing any new exemptions. The exemptions existing under the current
agreements will also not be renewed once the agreements currently in-force expire.
Reduction of exemptions will help to offset the revenue loss from tariff reduction and
further harmonize the incentive regime. The Government also intends to equalize sales
taxes on all imported and domestically produced goods, according to schedules to be
agreed with NWTO.
Trade Facilitation
21.   The second major component of the reform program concerns facilitation of
customs clearance. As of mid-1996, application of a reference price database for
valuation of goods has been initiated by Customs. A new Customs law, based on best
practices, has been drafted and approved by the Cabinet for submission to the
Parliament.  The new law requires that valuation be based on self-declaration by
importers. The law is consistent with WTO rules and will ensure that protection will
only be granted if it is considered to be in the interest of the economy as a whole. In
addition, a Safeguard Law has been submitted to Parliament.
22.   The temporary entry and duty drawback systems were improved during 1996
through the introduction of computerization as part of a USAJID-supported project. The
bonus system for Customs officials has also been revised to reduce the incentive for
officials for "overzealous" enforcement. Collected fines are now deposited in a central
fund for "merit based" salary increases and officials are required to substantiate decisions
to impose penalties.
23.   The Government will allow importers to use the services of a selected pre-
shipment certification provider on a voluntary basis. Such services would be financed by
the importer.  Acceptance by Jordanian Customs of documents establishing the
classification and value of goods provided by certification bodies accredited by the
Government of Jordan would be mandatory. Inspection or opening of containers sea&ed
by certification bodies by Customs would be limited. This voluntary pre-shipment
inspection scheme will provide bonafide importers with an opportunity to avoid any
delay and uncertainty concerning customs clearance. NMoreover, the intensity of its use
will provide information on the extent to which Customs procedures regarding valuation
and clearanc^- are a significant burden on the private sector.
24.   The Government has also implemented a scheme under which it permits
estabLished exporters to benefit from a "Green Channel" for imports of materials,
equipment, and components used in production of export. The green channel involves
acceptance of invoices presented by exporters on the basis of trust, with reliance on ex-
post random auditing of factory premises.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 16
25.    The Customs Department is closely involved vith GTZ in a program to simplify
procedures, computerize customs, and upgrade and expand training facilities for customs
officials. Simplification of procedures will be pursued in conjunction with the adoption
of the new Customs Law, and build upon EU experience and documentary requirements.
Computerization is programrned to be completed by July 1999.
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
Background
26.   Jordan's financial system is considered as one of the region's most developed and
up-to-date. The banking sector is well regulated, competitive, and financially sound.
There is a well functioning securities market with many listed companies, although
trading volumes and market liquidity are relatively low.  The insurance sector is
expanding and the social security system is in sound financial position with considerable
accumulated funds and positive real investment returns. A weak link in the system is the
poor performance of agricultural credits and small- and rmicro-enterprise finance. The
Industrial Development Bank (IDB) is in reasonably good financial condition. Limited
use is made of subsidized credits and the whole financial system is able to operate well in
an environment of macroeconormic stability.
27.   In the financial sector, the government's main objectives are: to improve
competition and efficiency; strengthen prudential regulation and supervision of all
segments of the system; enhance availability and access to medium- and long-term credit;
promote the development of Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs); and to facilitate
company access to the corporate bond market. To this end, the Government is currently
drafting appropriate legislation for the creation of leasing companies, mutual fimds and
other NBFIs and is in the process of implementing a major restructuring of securities
markets legislation and regulation.
Amman Financial Market (AFM)
28.    Policy and legislative reforms, recently finalized will enhance AFM's efficiency, in
both regulatory and technical aspects. A new Securities Law has been approved by the
Cabinet, which separates the regulatory functions from the technical side of the market. The
proposed drat law will create the Jordan Securities and Exchange Comrmission (JSEC) which
will have broad and well-defined powers and will report to the Council of Ministers. It
encompasses all regulatory functions related to securities markets, including public offerings
and new issues, securities markets intermediaries, etc. The new law also creates two
independent private sector bodies: the Amman Securities Exchange (ASE) and the Amman
Clearing, Settlement, and Depository Company (ACSD), both of which will be regulated by
the Jordan Secun'ties and Exchange Conmmission (JSEC). The ethical principles of the draft
Securities Law are based on the latest international standards.



Annex I                                                                   Page 9of16
29.   Considerable progress is also being made on improving the technical capacity of the
stock exchange. In accordance with the Government's plan to computerize the trading
activities of the Amman Financial Market (AFM), AFM has contracted to purchase
appropriate software and hardware system from France for installation in the very near
future. The recently selected trading system should provide for a continuous order driven
market, with all order handling capability. The system will be capable of both a single trading
room configuration and dispersed terminal trading, preferably through international links.
Functional changes to the computer systems are expected to be specified by December 1996.
Installation of computers and systems, as well as initial training would be completed by end of
1997, targeting conversion of the first security to the new system by the first quarter of 1998.
Secured Financing and Leasing
30.   In order to improve the competitive environment in Jordan's financial sector, the
Government would encourage the development of leasing, factoring, and venture capital
companies. While at present the banking sector holds a significant share of the financial
sector, the presence of non-bank financial institutions could siimulate efficiency in the
banking sector. The current legal and regulatory environment lacks the enabling legislation
and implementing regulations that would be conducive to the development of these
institutions. In this regard, an appropriate Secured Financing and Leasing Law is being
drafted which is expected to be submitted to the Parlianent by early 1997.
Mutual Funds
31.   Institutions like mutual funds could play an important role in developing the financial
sector, especially long-term securities market. Mutual funds would package securities in
order to better suit the needs of various investors, in terms of size, risk diversification, as well
as sector composition. Marketability of long-term securities, therefore, could significantly be
boosted by the operations of mutual flimds. Mutual funds are currently regulated by the
Companies Law, but the provisions are not sufficiently comprehensive and the law lacks
implementing regulations. As a result, there are no mutual funds in operation in Jordan,
despite the advanced stage of development of the stock market. The new Securities Law,
submitted to the Parliament, includes necessary improvements. Mutual funds would be
supervised by the Jordan Securities Exchange Commission (JSEC). The government intends
to draft a Trust Law which will firther facilitate the creation of mutual funds. The tax law
will also be amended to alleviate the possibility of double taxation.
Insurance Sector
32.   As for the insurance sector in Jordan, the government intends to strengthen the
prudential supervision needed. An in-depth study to review the issues and to prepare an
action plan to amend the Isurance Law to transforn the existing Insurance Control



Annex I
Page 10 of 16
Department into an Insurance Supervision Agency (ISA), with clearly specified inspection
and intervention powers, has been initiated. The study is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1996. The action plan would also suggest appropriate amendments to the
Insurance Law to adopt European Union solvency margins based on both premiums and
clains to ensure that companies maintain an adequate capital base for the risks they assume
and are discouraged from offering deceptively low premiums. This action plan would be
implemented in 1997. ISA would monitor insurance companies to ensure that they maintain
the required levels of solvency margins. It would be empowered to propose prompt
corrective actions for companies that fail to meet the stipulated solvency margins or violate
other aspects of the law.
Social Security and Provident Funds
33.   Currently the social security system of Jordan is in a reasonably strong financial
condition. The system is young and the demographic structure of the covered population is
also young. As a result, pension expenditures have been low and the Social Security
Corporation (SSC) has been able to accumulate large amounts of financial resources which
have been invested in the banking and capital markets. The investment return has been
positive in real terms. However, the systern is based on defined benefits and could face
financial pressures in the longer r.n.
34.   A comnprehensive review of the public pension systern has been conducted by the
IMF. They have examined the operation of the system and assessed its financial soundness.
The regulatory requirements of such a system and its implications for the financial markets
have also been assessed. A World Bank team has inidated a study of the investment
management of the resources of the SSC with a view to developing investment rules and
regulations that would ensure the orderly functioning of banking and capital markets. The
study is expected to be concluded by the end of 1996.
Banking Sector
35.   Instruments of Monetary Policy and Reserve Requirement. The Central Bank
used to apply different reserve ratios for comnmercial banks and investment banks. Because
the difference between commercial and investment banks has become blurred, the CBJ has
acted to unify the reserve ratios. The CBJ has reduced the difference in reserve ratios to 5
percentage points (14% for commercial banks and 90/o for investment banks) and plans to
reduce it fiirther in the future.
36.   Central Bank's Rediscount Facility. A set of rediscount and advance facilities at
subsidized interest rates were established by the CBJ to support the development of several
sectors of the economy. The main activities being supported are agriculture (through
subsidized advances to the ACC to be on-lent to small farmers), small handicraft industuy
(through advances to the IDB), municipalities' infrastructure (through advances to the Cities



Annex I                                                               Page 11 of 16
and Villages Development Bank, CVDB), low-income housing (through advances to the
Housing Bank), and exports (through the Export Re-discounting facility to commercial
banks). The CBJ has now decided to gradually eliminate the subsidy component in the
Central Bank's rediscount facility, except for a maximnum  of 2 percentage points for
agriculture, handicraft and exports. With the elinination of the subsidy element, the Central
Bank rediscounting mechanism would remain available, but at market terms.
37.   Prudential Regulations and Supervision.  The changing environment - more
exposure to exchange and interest rate risks and to competition - necessitates a continuous
review and. improvement of supervisory methods and procedures as well as prudential
regulations. The CBJ plans to move away from. direct intervention in the day-to-day
operation of the banks and give the banks sufficient degree of freedom to manage their
portfolio within pre-set ratios. In this respect, the CBJ has already eliminated prior approval
of foreign currency lending for exporters and is reviewing ways of substituting discretion with
transparent rules for the non-export sectors.
38.   The Housing Bank The Housing Bank has been made subject to the same Central
Bank regulation and supervision as applied to other banks. Draft legislation has also been
subrmitted to the Cabinet to rernove all other privileges enjoyed by the Housing Bank,
consistent with maintaining its obligations to low income housing, the draft legislation
includes a provision that any subsidy will be made available through a tax credit to the
Housing Bank. Such a tax credit will not exceed the subsidy extended by the Housing Bank
to low income housing.
39.   Study on Better Extension of Agricultural and Micro-enterprise Finance. Two
main issues in micro finance area are: (a) how to make banks accessible to farmers and small
scale entrepreneurs, and (b) how to make fanners and small scale entrepreneurs creditworthy
to the banks. The Government plans to address these issues and intends to develop an action
plan for agricultural and micro-enterprise finance which, not only would extend the needed
financig, but would also help develop the overall financial sector and mobilize savings in
rural areas. IFC is currently assisting the Government with the development of schemes for
better extension of micro-enterprise finance. Furthermore, as other mechanisms for financing
industry are developed Government intends to move toward integrating IDB within the
banking system.
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
Background
40.   Jordanian PE sector. The Jordanian state-owned enterprises are concentrated
mainly  in  the  infrastructure  sectors  (transport,  electricity,  water,  and
telecommunications).  Furthermnore, through the Jordanian Investment Corporation
(JIC), the state-owned investment agency, the Government has substantial-share-



Annex I                                                               Page 12 of 16
ownership in mining and cement companies listed on the stock-market, and minority
share-holdings in a number of small and medium-sized companies across several sectors,
including various financial institutions.
41.   Privatization Program. Given that our economic strategy calls for a much
larger role for the private sector in the economy, the government's aim is to reduce its
own involvement in the production and distribution of goods and services. We have
started opening up some of the sectors previously closed to private investors such as
telecommunication and power generation. A new public-private partnership is being
forged to build mutual trust and create better understanding of each other's concerns.
Meanwhile the Government is aggressively following a program of privatization across
all sectors of the economy.
42.   The government's privatization program will aim at raising enterprise efficiency.
Sale of shares to reputable strategic investors could improve the operational performance
of the PEs that currently suffer from administrative interventions, limited autonomy,
inadequate investment capital, and poorly designed incentive structures.   Other
objectives of the divestitures would be to develop the AFM through public share
offerings by increasing investment and diversification opportunities to both institutional
and retail investors, and to consolidate public finances by reducing subsidies and fiscal
drain, and by increasing tax base.
43.   Institutional Framework for Privatization.  Rapid implementation of the
privatization program in a transparent manner is a key objective of the Government.
To this end the institutional framework for privatization has been established and
divestiture procedures defined: The Cabinet has recently appointed an inter-ministerial
committee, headed by the Prime Minister, to steer the overall privatization plan. The
Cabinet has also approved the setting up of a Privatization Implementation Unit in the
office of the Prime Minister to provide implementation assistance for privatization
activities. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant has been mobilized through
the World Bank to support the building up of institutional capacity to implement the
program. The IDF and the Government will finance the hiring of qualified local and
foreign experts to implement transactions and training of professional staff of the
Privatization Implementation Unit.  The main responsibilities of the Privatization
Implementation Unit include: (a) coordination of the preparation of the divestiture
transactions; (b) management of the teams of technical experts and short-term external
advisors; (c) management of the marketing efforts of enterprises being divested; (d)
negotiations with various groups of stakeholders; (e) execution of transactions; (f)
dissemination of information regarding the progress of the program.
44.   First phase of the privatization program. Substantive steps have been taken in
the energy and telecommunications sectors towards eventual privatization and expanded
private sector participation. It is also the government's intention that the public



Annex I                                                              Page 13 of 16
enterprises in the transport sector will be restructured to allow for greater private sector
participation. While full implementation of the privatization program will take over two
years, the Governrnent has decided that Telecommunication Corporation (TCC), Jordan
Electricity Authority (JEA), Irbid District Electricity Company (DECO), Jordan Electric
Power Company (JEPCO), Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC), Jordan Cement
Companies (JCC), Public Transport Corporation (PTC), and the Main Spa will comprise
the first phase of the program to be completed within next twelve months. The
following actions have already been completed:
(i)   TCC has been registered as a public shareholding company under the
Companies Law. The Privatization Inter-Ministerial Committee has made
the decision to divest at least 26% of the Government's shares in TCC to a
strategic investor. The Government has requested, in international press,
expressions of interest from financial advisors to execute this transaction.
The selection of financial advisors will be completed by December, 1996.
(ii) JEA has been transformed into a public shareholding company under the
name of National Electric and Power Company (NEPCO). It has been
decided to divest NEPCO shares in DECO and JEPCO. The Board of
Directors of NEPCO has approved the separation of distribution assets of
NEPCO as separate cost centres.  The Governrnent has established a
Regulatory Comrnission appointed by Council of Ministers and directly
responsible for all aspects of regulation in the electricity sector.
(iii) The efforts to privatize ARC have been accelerated and a time bound action
plan for privatization of ARC will be completed by December, 1996. Tender
documents for a concession for the operations of the company will be issued
by February, 1997.
(iv) The privatization of the Jordan Cement Factories has been initiated by a
decision of the Board of lIC to sell at least a 20% stake to a strategic partner
and by holding an international pre-bidding conference to interested parties.
A short-list of potential investors has been prepared, bids are currently being
evaluated.
(v)  The Board of the Jordan Tourism and Spa Complex at Zerka Main, has
invited expressions of interest from interested parties for a long-term
concession.
(vi) A Government decision has been taken to privatize the operations of PTC,
and advisors have been recruited for the task to be completed by March,
1997.



Annex I
Page 14 of 16
(vii) Divestiture activities of loss-making firms in the portfolio of Jordan
Investment Corporation (JIC) have been accelerated; liquidators have been
appointed to seU the assets of the TV Production Company and the Glass
Factory.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Background
45.   During 1995-96, the government developed and implemented a business-enabling
Investment Law with strengthened investment incentives; and new Telecommunication
and Electricity Laws to allow privatization in the energy and telecommunication sectors.
The General Sales Tax Law was amended in order to increase the rate to 10 percent to
counter-balance revenue losses from tariff reductions, and tax rebates were introduced
for exporters. Furtherrnore, the Income Tax Law amendment established three flat
corporate tax rates -15, 25, and 35 percent - and introduced a withholding tax of 10
percent on distributed profits.
Legislative Reforms
46.   The Government has approved several important business laws: Companies Law,
Securities Law, Customs Law, and Safeguard Law. The latter two laws already have
been submitted to Parliament. The Secured Financing and Leasing Law and the
Competition Law will be submitted to the Parliament in early 1997.
47.   As noted above, the new  Securities Law  separates the regulatory and
operational functions of the AFM. The Law calls for the establishment of a regulatory
body - the Jordan Securities and Exchange Commission - appointed by the Council of
Ministers and with broad and well-defined powers over non-banking financial services.
48.   The Companies Law has been amended such that: (a) approval requirements for
several sector-specific economic activities are abolished; (b) company registration
requirements simplified;. (c) other excessively centralized and duplicated licensing
requirements abolished; and (d) corporate governance and finance improved. Articles
related to securities have been shifted from the Companies Law to the new Securities
Law. The Law accommodates modern computerized trading by stipulating that (share)
ownership does not require the possession of a certificate (scrip). The Govermment has
removed tax on retained earnings and reserves that are converted into paid-up capital.



Annex I
Page 15 of 16
49.   The new Secured Financing and Leasing Law under preparation and expected
to be submitted to the Parliament by early 1997, will permit additional types of property,
especially movables, to be used as collateral. Under the new law a lender or other credit
grantor (e.g., a seller of goods) will be able to secure its loan by creating a security
interest in movable property and enforce its interest through a simple system of
automated notice registration which establishes the lender's priority and prevents double
use of assets for collateral. The law would encourage lending, expand the number of
financial instruments and encourage growth through leverage of property.
50.   The proposed new Customs Law is consistent with WTO and establishes the
principle of invoice-based valuation of goods combined with a post-auditing system. The
principle of self-declaration will be implemented upon completion of computerization of
customs.  In addition, the law  allows for voluntary pre-shipment valuation by
international companies as well as a "green channel" for exporters. A WTO consistent
Safeguard Law will be established for the first time.
51.   The Government recognizes the importance of enacting an up-to-date
Competition Law in order to maintain and encourage competition in domestic markets
and foster economic efficiency and consumer welfare. Furtherrnore, the Law will
address issues related to entry barriers to business, and advocate sound business
practices and ethics. Effective implementation of such a law would also enhance the
flexibility and the competitiveness of Jordanian industry in an increasingly globalized
market environment, and position it to meet some of the requirements of an Association
Agreement with the European Union. In this regard, a new Competition Law is
expected to be finalized shortly.
CONCLUSION
52.   Mr. President, in concluding this letter, I wish to emphasize that, for this year,
we had set for ourselves targets and milestones which appeared almost insurmountable.
We are proud to say that the entire package of reforms has now been achieved within the
time period envisioned. We are fully confident that the policy and legislative reforms
undertaken in this phase of the program would carry us far towards meeting our overall
objective of self sufficiency, poverty eradication, and provision of basic social welfare. I
wish to assure you that the Government will continue to press ahead with the reform
program, on the economic front; while it intensifies its efforts to implement the necessary
social safety nets to protect the poor in the short-term and eradicate the causes of
poverty in the medium-termn, on the social front.  Also, and as we are moving
progressively towards greater democratization of our institutions, we intend to continue
shifting production responsibilities from the public to the private sector, and allowing
wider participation of the public in the decision making process.



Annex I
Page 16 of 16
53.   The reform phase just completed provides the necessary framework for the
growth of the private sector and unleashes its ability to contribute to the national
economy.   These changes also layout the necessaiy infrastructure for greater
globalization of our economy. This package of reforms was a necessary base for the
next phase during which actual implementation of events under the new laws will
commence. We feel that the next phase will be even more crucial in realizing our
objectives.   We visualize that this would require a considerable amount of
implementation assistance, training, and development activities. We are extremely
grateful to the World Bank for its strong support to Jordan in meeting these difficult
challenges. We hope that this partnership will be maintained and strengthened as we
move along on our growth path.
Regards,
Dr. Rima Khalaf Hunaidi
Minister of Planning



Attachment to Annex I
Page 1 of 8
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Trade Policy
Policy Area   1 Status as of March 1996    Policy Actions for 1996  | Policy Actions for I Policy Actions
l__________                                   I     (prior to Board)                1997               for 1998
1. Import Tariffs (Objective: Reduce anti-export bias, stimulate efficiency and competition)
1.1 Tariff       Maximum tariff at 50%         Public announcement or      Furtherprogress on lowering tariffs on
structure         (except for alcohol, tobacco,   Cabinet decision to reduce by   selected raw materials and intermediate
and cars) with 10 bands.     January 1, 1997, the         goods. Reduction of the maximum tariff on
maximum tariff to 40%       July 1, 1998.
excluding tariffs on alcohol
and tobacco. Lower the
number of tariff bands to six:
0, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40%.
1.2 Capital      Tariffs on 492 capital goods    Announce to eliminate by
goods             (at the 8-digit HS level) are    January 1, 1997, tariffs on the
subject to 0, 5, or 10% tariffs.  current agreed list of 492
capital goods.
Public announcement or
Cabinet decision to reduce by
January 1, 1997, tariffs to
10% on an additional list of
218 capital goods, including
computer and telecom-
munication equipment. For
such capital goods, tariffs on
parts will not exceed 30%.
1.3 Tariff       Major legislated exemptions    No new tariff exemptions will  Continue policy.
exemptions       for specific enterprises      be introduced and current
accounting for some 10% of   exemptions will not be
imports.                     renewed when they expire.
1.4 Fees and     Legislation to consolidate    Submit legislation to the
surcharges        fees and surcharges into the    Parliament that consolidates all
tariffs is currently with the  import fees, surcharges, and
Cabinet.                     other applicable fees into one
of the basic tariff rates.
1.5 Customs      Current Customs Law lacks    Submit to Parliament a new
Law               invoice based valuation.     WTO consistent Customs Law
and establish principle of
invoice-based valuation of
goods combined with post-
audit system. The principle of
self-declaration will be
implemented upon completion
of computerization of
Customs.
1.6 Tax          Exemption of GST is granted   Agreement to equalize sales
equalization     to domestic producers of     taxes on all imported and
clothing, shoes, fumiture, and   domestically produced goods,
alcohol, but levied on       according to schedules to be
imports of similar goods.    agreed with WTO.                                                     l



Attachment to Annex I
Page 2 of 8
Policy Area                                     Policy Actions for 1996      Policy Actions for    Policy Actions
I                                   (prior to Board)       |         1997               for 1998
2. Customs Administration (Objective: Reduce transaction costs of imports to expand exports and modernize
industry)
2.1 Valuation      Customs administration is    Begin to apply a reference    Adopt procedures for valuation of goods
viewed as costly and         price database for valuation of   based on the self-declaration principle, in
untimely by importers.       goods by Customs.             accordance with WTO Customs Valuation
Agreement, upon computerization of
Customs.
2.2 Duty                                        Computerize duty drawback     Extend the duty
drawback and       .,                           and temporary admission       drawback and
temporary                                       systems.                      temporary admission
admission                                                                     regimes to indirect
X_____________   _______________________exporters.
2.3 Bonus          Customs officials have       The existing bonus system for
system             individual incentives to levy  Customs officials will be
fines, leading to conflict of  revised so as to reduce
interest.                    individual incentives to levy
fines.
2.4 "Green         Materials used for exported  For a set of established      Evaluate facility and possibly extend list of
Channel"           products are subject to same    exporters provide "Green   exporters.
procedures as other imports.    Channel" for imports of
materials, equipment and
components used in the
production of exports. This
implies acceptance of invoices
presented by exporters on the
basis of trust, with reliance on
limited ex-post random
auditing of factory premises.
2.5 Pre-shipment   Pre-shipment valuation is not   Announce that by January
valuation          accepted.                     1997 importers can use the
services of pre-shipment
certification providers on a
voluntary basis, which
involves mandatory
acceptance by Customs of
documents issued by
certification providers
establishing the classification
and value of goods. There
will be only limited
inspection and/or opening of
containers sealed by
certification providers.                           l



Attachment to Annex I
Page 3 of 8
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Financial Sector Policy
Policy Area      Status as of March 1996        Policy Actions for 1996      Policy Actions for    Policy Actions
l                             l     (prior to Board)                 1997                for 1998
3. Banking Sector (Objective: to stimulate efficiency and competition)         ._..._........
3.1 Reserve       Reserve ratios applied to                                   Continue progress towards unification of the
Requirements'     commercial banks differ from                                reserve ratio, consistent with monetary policy
those applied to investment                                objectives.
banks, but the difference has
been narrowed down to
currently 5 percentage points
(i.e. 14 percent for
commercial banks and 9
percent for investment
banks).
3.2 Subsidy       Subsidies are extended to      Eiiminate interest rate subsidy,   Continue progress towards phasing out
through           agriculture (through          except for a maximum of 2     interest subsidy.
Rediscount/       Agricultural Credit            percentage points for export,
Advance Facility   Corporation), handicraft and    agriculture, and handicraft and
industry (through Industrial    industry. The rate of subsidy
Development Bank), housing   is measured by the difference
(through the Housing Bank),   between general rediscount
and export (through           rate and the rate for respective
commercial banks).            sector.
3.3 Bank -        Prudential regulation and     Formulate and adopt           Strengthen banking supervision and
Supervision and    supervision is adequate.     measures to strengthen        prudential regulations further through full
Prudential        However, the changing         banking supervision and       financial disclosure by banks and changes in
Regulation'       environment requires a        regulation.                   reporting requirements to bring them to
continuous evaluation of the                               intemationally accepted standards.
system to cope with the
change.
CBJ has significantly moved    Eliminate prior approval by  Follow guidelines with
away from direct intervention   CBJ of foreign currency    the objective to
in day-to-day operations of    lending to exporters.       allowing banks to
banks.                                                     operate with sufficient
Review regulations and       degree of freedom
practices which still require  within pre-set ratios.
case-by-case approvals by the
authorities (as in the case of
credit in foreign currency to
non-export sectors), and
formulate guidelines, as
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ needed, for reform.
3.4 The Housing    The Housing Bank is still    Make the Housing Bank         Redesign the
Bank              benefiting from special       subject to the same Central   subsidized housing
privileges, although to a     Bank regulation as in the case   finance program to
reduced extent as compared    of all other banks.          better reach below-
to the past (with obligation                               average income group.
to provide housing finance at   Remove all privileges to
subsidized rates to low       Housing Bank extended by
income group).               the CBJ including special
legal reserve, liquidity, credit
concentration, and capital
adequacy ratios, and
disclosure provisions.
Reserve requirements and prudential regulation and supervision are covered under IMF programs.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 4 of 8
Policy Area      Status as of March 1996       Policy Actions for 1996     Policy Actions for    Policy Actions
(prior to Board)               1997               for 1998
3.4 The Housing                                Submit to Cabinet draft
Bank (cont.)                                   legislation to remove all other
privileges enjoyed by the
Housing Bank, consistent
with maintaining its
obligations to low income
housing. In particular the
draft legislation will include a
provision that subsidy will be
made available through tax
credit to the Housing Bank.
Such tax credit will not
exceed the subsidy extended
by the Housing Bank to low
income housing.
4. Non-Bank Financial Institutions (Objective: to develop non-bank financial institutions and alternative
mechanisms for financing industry and agriculture)
4.1 Agricultural    The Agricultural Credit    Conduct study to restructure    Improve extension of agricultural, and small-
and Small- and    Corporation (ACC) needs a    the ACC and improve          and micro-enterprise finance.
Micro-enterprise   comprehensive restructuring    extension of agricultural, and
Finance           program.                     small- and micro-enterprise  Implement the restructuring program for ACC.
finance.
IDB is in sound condition,                               As other mechanisms for financing industry
but tax and other special                                are developed(e.g. secured financing and
treatments make IDB a                                    leasing, etc. - see below), move toward
privileged institution as                                integrating IDB within the banking system.
compared to other (especially
smaller) banks.
4.2 Mutual Funds  Current regulation for mutual   Satisfactory progress in  Develop and adopt by-
funds in the Companies Law   achieving appropriate legal  laws and
is not sufficient.          framework for mutual funds.    implementing
regulations.
5. Contractual Saving Institutions (Objective: to promote sources of long-term funds)
5.1 Insurance     Prudential regulation and    Conduct a study for          Complete the study
Companies         supervision is weak.         strengthening the supervisory    and prepare action
body.                       plan.
5.2 Pension/      Although the Social Security   Conduct a study to:       Complete the study
Provident Funds   Corporation is presently in a    (a) review the social security   and prepare action
and Social        relatively sound condition,  and pension/provident funds    plan.
Security         the aging of the population in   with a view to introducing
the coming future would      defined contribution plans;
necessitate the review of    and
alternative arrangements.    (b) examine the investment
regulations on the SSC and
pension/provident funds that
would be required to ensure
the orderly functioning of
banking and securities
Imarkets                           .  .                           ..



Attachment to Annex I
Page 5 of 8
Policy Area      Policy as of March 1996    Policy Action for 1996    Policy Actions for    Policy Actions for]]
I                             j    (prior to Board)                1997                   1998         l
6. Securities Markets (Objective: to strengthen the regulations of securities markets)                                  l
6.1 Structure of    AFM functions both as       Cabinet approval of a       Start to put in place in    Complete the
the Amman         market regulator as well as   modem and comprehensive   the first quarter of 1997   establishment of the
Financial Market   market operator.              Securities Law.            the supervisory        JSEC, ASE, and the
authority (ISEC) as    Central Depository
well as Amman Stock    by first quarter of
Exchange (ASE) and     1998.
the Central Depository.
6.2 Trading,      Current trading, clearing and    Select system and secure  Install modem trading,  Move into new
Clearing and      settlement, and depository    financing for trading,      clearing, settlement,    facility and complete
Settlement, and   systems need significant      clearing and settlement, and   and depository      conversion to new
Depository        modernization                 depository systems.        systems.                systems.
Systems
6.3 Companies     Existing Companies Law        Cabinet approval of
Law               contains provisions which     revisions to Companies
could hinder the development  Law.
of securities markets, such as:
* The price at issue is
determined by the Issuing
Committee;
* Full value of corporate
bonds must be guaranteed by
mortgages;
* Value of corporate bonds
must not exceed paid-up
capital of the issuing
company; and
* The share that can be
subscribed by each promoter
of a public company must not
exceed 10 percent of total
share capital of the company.
* Companies Law does not
allow for scripless securities
markets to develop                               _
6.4 Financial                                                              Adopt and announce      Adopt a uniform code
Disclosure and                                                             the principle of full   of intemationally-
Accounting                                                                  and credible financial   accepted accounting
Standards                                                                   disclosure.            standards and
practices.
7. Regulatory Environment for Financial Services (Objective: to encourage new forms of secured finance)
7.1 Secured       Existing regulatory            Satisfactory progress in
Financing and     framework does not provide    preparing appropriate
Leasing           suitable environment for non-  legislation enabling the
bank financial institutions to   creation, registration, and
develop.                     liquidation of collateral
security on movable prop-
erty such as machinery,
inventory and receivables.
The Law will include ap-
propriate regulatory frame-
work for leasing, factoring,
and venture capital com-
panies and existing legal
and regulatory provisions
that hinder their develop-
ment will be removed.
7.2 Tax on                                      Cabinet approval of
Retained                                        appropriate legal
Eamings                                         amendment to remove tax
on conversion of retained
eamings and reserves into
______ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____ paid-up   capital.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 6 of 8
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Privatization
PoiyAe                 s so   acPolicy Actions for 199                       olicy Actions for       lc   cin
~~~~~~~~~~~:                              (prior to Board)  j             1997               fr19
8. Privatization (Objective: enable private-sector-led growth, increase competition, allow Government to focus of its
core function, remove monetary vulnerability).
8.1 Institutional   No central decision body.  Establish Privatization      Supervise and if possible accelerate
framework and                                  Ministerial Committee to    implementation of action plan.
implementation                                 formulate privatization
strategy and oversee its
implementation.
No central implementation   Establish Implementation     Implement action plan.
office.                     Office to: (a) coordinate the
preparation the privatization
transactions; (b) manage
teams of technical experts;
(c) manage marketing efforts;
(d) supervise transactions;
(e) inform the public;
(f) report to inter-ministerial
committee.
8.2 Action plan    No comprehensive action     Formulate detailed action
plan established.           plan:
TCC                                            Register TCC as public       Sell stake in TCC to  Continue progress
shareholding company under   strategic partner.    in privatization of
Companies Law.                                     TCC.
Privatization Ministerial
Committee decision to sell a
minimum of 26% of shares to
a strategic investor.
Issue invitation for expression
of interest to act as financial
advisor to assist with
privatization of TCC.
JEA                                            Prepare a comprehensive and   Initiate privatization  Continue progress
time bound commer-           of distribution assets  - in privatization of
cialization and privatization  under NEPCO.        distribution net.
l                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~plan for JEA:
plan for JEA:                Initiate privatization  Continue progress
Transform JEA into a public    of IDECO.           in selling shares in
shareholding company                               generation
(NEPCO) under Companies    Separate transmission    companies.
Law.                         from generation.
Decision for JEA to divest its   Start to sell shares in
shares in IDECO and JEPCO.   generation companies.
Satisfactory progress towards
separation from NEPCO of
distribution assets as cost
centers.
Cabinet decision to establish
an autonomous regulatory
commission directly
responsible for all regulatory
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ aspects in electricity  sector.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 7 of 8
Policy Area      Status as of March 1996        Policy Actions for 1996       Policy Actions for    Policy Actions
( (prior to Board)                     1997                for 1998
8. Privatization (cont.).                                                                                               l
ARC                                              Privatization Ministerial     Complete award of concession.
Committee decision to
privatize ARC. Initiate
consultant recruitment to
draft the tender documents
for a concession for the
operations of the company.
Public Transport                                Cabinet Development           Establish a Public
Company (PTC)                                    Council decision to privatize    Transport Authority.
PTC.
Sell PTC assets to
l____________________________  private  operators.
Cement Factories                                JIC Board decision to sell a   Complete the initial   Continue progress
minimum of 20% of shares to   sale of shares in     in privatization of
a strategic investor.        Jordan Cement to        Jordan Cement.
strategic partner.
Send out requests for
proposal to short-listed     Continue further
companies.                   divestiture of JIC
shares in Jordan
Organize pre-bidding         Cement.
conference.
Receive bids by October 15,
1996.                                                                  l
Main Tourism                                    Invite expressions of interest    Award lease or
and Spa                                          from private sector for       management contract
Complex                                         investment and long-term      to private operator.
concession.                                                            l
JIC Loss-making                                  Continue privatization efforts   Sell or lease out to  Continue progress
Companies                                       within JIC to sell or liquidate   private sector two  in selling loss-
two loss-making enterprises    loss-making enterpri-    making enterprises
(the TV production Company   ses as going concems    as going concerns
and the Glass Factory).      or liquidate them.      or liquidating
them.
Other                                                                         Undertake preparatory   Start privatization
privatization work on    of selected PEs.
selected PEs.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 8 of 8
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Regulatory Regime (summary)
Policy Area         tus as of March          Policy Actions for 1996    Policy Actions for    Policy Actions
(prior to Board)               1997               for 1998
9. Regulatory Regime (Objeciive: Improve efficiency and global integration, deepen and broaden financial
interrnediation)
9.1 Investment    New law passed by           Complete procedural          Reduce barriers to wholly owned foreign
Law               Parliament, by-laws agreed  guidelines and implement    businesses.
upon by CabineL             law.                         .
9.2 Customs      New Law in advanced stage    Submit to Parliament         Implement new
Law               of preparation.             appropriate Customs Law.     Customs Law.
Issues raised under points 1.5
and 2.1-2.4 are addressed
appropriately.            |
9.3 Safeguard     Law needs drafting.         Submit to Parliament        Implement new
Law                                           appropriate Safeguard Law.    Safeguard Law.
9.4 Securities   New Law in advanced stage    Cabinet approval of          Implement new
Law              of preparation.              appropriate Securities Law.    Securities Law.
Issues raised under points 4.2,
6.1, 6.3, 6.4 are addressed
appropriately.
9.5 Companies    New Law in advanced stage    Cabinet approval of          Implement new
Law               of preparation.             appropriate Companies Law,   Companies Law.
that: (a) abolishes approval
requirements for several
sector-specific economic
activities; (b) simplifies
company registration
requirements; (c) abolishes
other excessively centralized
and duplicated licensing
requirements; and (iv)
improves corporate
govemance and finance.
Issues raised under points 4.2,
6.3, 7. are addressed
appropriately.
9.6 Competition   Law needs drafting.         Satisfactory progress in    Implement new
Law                                           drafting appropriate        Competition Law.
Competition Law.
9.7 Secured       Major obstacles to          Satisfactory progress in    Implement new
Financing and    establishment of leasing,    preparing appropriate        Secured Financing
Leasing Law       factoring, and venture capital  legislation enabling the  and Leasing Law.
companies. Law needs        creation, registration, and
drafting.                   liquidation of collateral
security on movable property
such as machinery, inventory
and receivables. The Law will
include appropriate regulatory
framework for leasing,
factoring, and venture capital.
9.8 Tax on                                    Cabinet approval of
Retained                                      appropriate legal amendment
Earnings.                                    to remove tax on conversion
of retained earnings and
reserves into paid-up capital.
9.9 Insurance                                                             Liberalize according
Law                                                                       to point 5.1.



Annex 11
Page l of2
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Jordan
A. IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio
As of November 12, 1996
Difference
Original amount in USS               between expected
Project                Fiscal                                                                                               and actual
ID         Loan No.    Year            Borrower                   Purpose                 1BRD    CanceL  Undisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 49
Active Loans
5295       L31060       1989    Government of Jordan    Human Res. Sector                 73.00                    2.21         2.21
5284       L35680       1993    Government of Jordan    Transport III                     35.00                   22.00        16.55
5319       L35740       1993    GovernmentofJordan    HealthII                            20.00                   19.37         3.37
5318       L36510       1994    Government of Jordan    Energy Sector Loan                80.00                   20.00        20.02
5322       L37380       1994    Government of Jordan    Jordan Telecom                    20.00                   15.24         9.81
5310       L38170       1995    GovernimentofJordan     ASAL                              80.00                   30.00        30.00
5321       L38180       1995    Government of Jordan    TA for Agriculture                 6.60                    6.21         4.31
5307       L38640       1995    Government of Jordan    Human Res. Devt.                  60.00                   58.26         9.66
35995      L39930       1996    Government of Jordan    Export Development                40.00                   32.00        -2.41
5323       L40710       1997    Government of Jordan    Housing & Urban Sector            20.00                   20.00
TOTAL                                                                                    434.60       0.00      225.28         93.51
Active Loans               Closed Loans                  Total
Total disbursed (EBRD)                           209.32                      969.10                1178.42
Of which repaid                                 12.10                      462.07                474.17
Total now held by IBRD                           422.50                      507.03                929.53
Amount sold                                        0.00                       11.53                  11.53
Of which repaid                                  0.00                       11.53                  11.53
Total undisbursed                                225.28                        0.00                225.28
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data are updated-at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
MOP Schedule D
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1996
(In US Dollar Millions)
Conmnitted                                 Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FYApproval    Company                        Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
1987/90/95     Al-Hikma                      0.00      0.00      2.70      0.00          0.00     0.00      2.36     0.00
1993           Al-Hikma                      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00          5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1994           Al-Keena Paper                 8.00     0.00      0.00      0.00          8.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995           Indo-Jordan                  30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         16.69     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995           Jordan Telephone              15.00     3.00      0.00      0.00         15.00     3.00      0.00     0.00
1996           MODAL                          5.50     0.00      0.00      0.00          4.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:             63.50     3.00      2.70      0.00         49.19     3.00      2.36     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitinent
Loan    Equity    Quasi    Parnic
1996           ZARA INVESTMENT               15.00     3.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    15.00     3.00      0.00      0.00



Amex III
Page I of 4
Jordan at a glance
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North  mIddle-
Jordan     Africa  Income     Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                        4.2       273    1,154                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                           1,500      1,780    1,700
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                               6.3       486    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                         5.7       2.7      1.4
Labor force (%)                                        5.2       3.3      1.7     GNP                                Gross
per                               prirnary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               72        56       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        66       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               32        49       36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             17         ..       ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populatlon)                 99         83       73
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   20        37        ..
Gross primary enrollment (' of school-age population)  94        97      104        -Jordan
Male                                                 94        14       ios       -Lower-middle-ncome group
Female                                               95        90      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1988       1994    1995      Economic ratio%'
GOP (billions US$)                                     5.0       6.0      6.6             O
Gross domestic investmentGDP                   ..    21.7       36.2     35.8             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP   ..    37.2       49.8     53.0
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                       ..   -17.4       12.7     14.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..    -2.4       27.0     26.7
Current account balancelGOP                    ..   -19.9       -9.2     -9.1    , Savings                      Investmnt
Interest paymentsWGOP                          ,,      3.8       3.2
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    80.6      115.5
Total debt service/exports                    3.7    17.2       12.2
Present value of debtVGDP                      ..       ..      88.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    129.4         .                 Indebtedness
197544  1986-95     1994       1995  1996-4
(average annual growmth)5.                                       64       71       -Jta
GOP                                   ..     0. 1      5.8       6.4      7.1          Jra
GNP per capita                        ..      S6      5.        0.5      3.5          Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and rffs             ..     &7        1.2      11.0      8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1986      1994    1995       Growthratesofoutputandinveetrent%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                   7.9      4.9       5.8      5.7     4
Industry                                     23.7    26.9       28.1    28.2    |       //
Manufacturing                               8.9     11.9      14.0     13.6      20
Services                                    68.4    68.2        66.2    66.1 1
j.2    90  91   *2      3     -    @
.20
Private consumption                           ..    90.6        64.6     62.5
General govemment consumption                  .,    26.8       22.7    23.1
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..    76.3        73.3     74.4    !                    -,*-GOP
197544  1985-95      1994    1995    [ Growth rtes of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual gwthv)
Agriculture                                           11.9       1.0      4.0     30-
Industry                                      ..      2.0        6.5      5.8
Manufacturing                                ..      5.3       9.3      3.0     20
Services                                       ..    -3.3        6.0      5.0
Private consumption                            ..    -3.0        5.2      2.2       .7
General government consumption                ..    -0.9         8.5      7.7 7                             a s2         all
Gross domestic Investrent                      ,,     9.9       -9.9     419      to I
Imports of goods and non-factor services       .      5.8       -5.5      5.6
Gross national product                         ,      -0.8       9.4      4.0    IEKO                    impo4
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures In itlics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. it data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex]II
Page 2 of 4
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1994    1995       nflabor1%1
DomestIc prices                                                                  40
(% change)
Consumer prices                              11.9      3.0       3.5      24    30
Implicit GDP deflator                                 -0.3       3.9      36    2
Govemnment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                           ___
Current revenue                              18.9    22.4       29.7    31 4             90   91    92    93    94    as
Current budget balance                       -9.9   -11.6       -0.1      1.7
Overall surplus/dercit                      -28.1   -21.6       -6.2    -5.t                -GDP df. -CPI
TRADE
1975    1985       1994    1995                                U
Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                          125      789      1,425    1,771    i '
Phosphorus                                   ..      168       117      151
Other metals                                         879       166      174
Manufactures                                         282       607      704
Total imports (cif)                          732    2,720      3,374    3,696    2 i00
Food38                                                         58        9
Fuel and energy                                     490        427      480   ie          rr
Capital goods                                        661       858      906
Export price index (1990=100)                                    107      114   1
Import price index (1990=100)                   -                102      109          so  00  91   92   93   94  9f
Temns of trade (1990=100)                                        104      105   |              ,xports m imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1994    1995
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%I
Exports of goods and non-factor services     379    1,976      2,986    3,490   |
Imports of goods and non-factor services     942    3,723      4.395    4 905         9   90  i91   92  93   94   95
Resource balance                            -562   -1,747    -1,409   -1t415      5 T
Net factor income                             26      -89       -144     -304    -10 tlI|
Netcurrenttransfers                          172      845      1,002    1.118   |5|
Current account balance,                                                         c20
before official transfers                  -365    -991       -551     -WI
Financing items (net)                        538    1,145       850      963    -2S 
Changes in net reserves                     -173    -154        -298     -362     -3
Memo:                                                                                  _
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          571      770      1,977    2,257
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   0.3      0.4       0.7      0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
'1975    1985      1994    1995
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         345    4.022      7,051    7,200
IBRD                                         0      168       635      736                                                |
IDA                                         33       82        71       69
Total debt service                            21      531        505     641
IBRD                                         0       21       102      125
IOA                                          0        2         2        3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            357      453       306      320    ,
Official creditors                          71      210       109      205    1
Private creditors                           19      190       -162     -106
Foreign direct investment                   26       25         3       43
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 12       97        107     190      A -IBRO                      E - Bilate
Disbursements                               10       64        58       158     B B-IA    D -COthe rullitaterul   F-Private
Principal repayments                         0       10        58       79      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netilows                                    10       54         0       79
Interest payments                            0       12        46       49
Net transfers                               10       42        -46      30
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                  11114/96



Annex III
Page 3 of 4
Key Economic Indicators
Actual         Estimated                        Projected                                  Fivc-Year Pcriod Averages
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998    1999          2000           1991-95    1996-00    2001-05
National Accounts (pct. GDP at curr. market prices)
Total Consumption                                   93.2%      87.3%      85.7%      84.7%      82.5%      81.5%      80.1%      78.6%           91.9%       81.5%      73.9%
Gross Domestic Fixed Investment                     34.2%      33.2%      32.8%      34.7%      36.7%      36.8%      36.9%      37.0%           30.7%       36.4%      35.8%
Govemment Investment                                6.7%       6.5%       7.0%       7.2%       6.8%       6.5%       6.2%       6.0%            6.4%        6.5%       5.7%
Private Investment (icl. increase in stocks)      30.6%       29.7%      28.8%      29.5%      29.9%      30.3%      30.7%      31.0%           27.5%      30.3%       30.1%
Exports (goods and non-factor services)             51.3%      49.8%      53.0%      53.6%      54.5%      55.6%      56.7%      58.0%           53.0%       55.7%      62.5%
Imports (goods and non-factor services)             81.8%      73.3%      74.4%      75.0%      73.8%      73.8%      73.7%      73.6%           78.9%       74.0%      72.2%
GrossDomesticSavings                                 6.8%      12.7%      14.3%      15.3%      17.5%      18.5%      19.9%      21.4%             7.9%      18.5%      26.1%
Gross National Savings                              19.3%      27.0%      26.7%      27.3%      28.7%      28.7%      28.9%      29.7%            18.0%      28.7%      32.9%
Memorandusm Items:
GrossDomesticProduct(USSmil.,current)              5,501.4    5,996.7    6,589.3    7,175.7    7,841.8    8,612.5    9,499.7   10,459.3          5,484.0    8,717.8   14,024.4
Gross National Product per capita (cur. USS, Atlas)  1,310.0    1,430.0    1,470.0    1,560.0    1,640.0    1,750.0    1,860.0    2,000.0        1,310.0    1,760.0    2,460.0
Real annual growth rates:
Gross Domestic Product, market prices               5.9%       5.8%       6.4%       5.9%       6.1%       7.0%       7.5%       7.3%            7.1%       6.8%        7.1%
Gross Domestic Income                               5.7%       6.4%       6.3%       6.5%       7.3%       7.5%       8.0%       7.9%             7.5%       7.4%       8.0%
Real annual per capita growth rates:
Gross Domestic Product, market prices               1.9%       2.1%       2.8%       2.3%       2.5%       3.4%       3.9%       4.1%            2.8%        3.3%       4.0%
Total Consumption                                  -2.7%       2.2%       0.1%       2.0%       1.5%       2.6%       2.6%       2.7%             1.3%      2.3%        2.7%
Privatc Consumption                                -3.4%       1.4%      -1.2%       1.7%       2.5%       2.6%       2.5%       2.2%            1.5%       2.3%        1.7%
Balance of Payments (USSmillions)
Exports (goods and non-factor services)            2,822.0    2,985.6    3,489.9    3,845.4    4,273.8    4,786.1    5,386.2    6,066.8         2,889.0    4,871.6    8,809.4
Merchandise (FOB)                                 1,248.0    1,424.6    1,770.9    1,933.4    2,104.6    2,320.6    2,581.7    2,873.8         1,359.1    2,362.8    3,983.6
Imports (goods and non-factor services)            4,499.0    4,394.8    4,905.1    5,378.8    5,784.9    6,359.6    7,002.4    7,700.7         4,303.3    6,445.3   10,117.6
Merchandise (FOB)                                 3,541.0    3,373.7    3,696.1    4,054.9    4,348.9    4,799.4    5,307.4    5,859.2         3,250.4    4,874.0    7,758.3
Resource Balance                                  -1,677.0   -1,409.2   -1,415.2   -1,533.4   -1,511.1   -1,573.5   -1,616.2   -1,633.9        -1,414.3   -1,573.6   -1,308.2
Resource Balance (pct. GDP, curr. market prices)   -30.5%     -23.5%     -21.5%     -21.4%     -19.3%     -18.3%     -17.0%     -15.6%          -26.0%      -18.3%      -9.8%
NetCurrentTransfers(incl. off. curr. transfers)     997.0    1,002.0    1,118.0    1,186.0    1,221.2    1,245.8    1,270.1    1,296.8            875.0    1,244.0    1,375.7
Current Account Balance (after off. cap. grants)   -650.0    -227.6    -270.2    -294.1         -285.5     -374.8     -641.5     -651.6          -520.2    -449.5       -250.2
Current Account Balance (pct. GDP, market prices)  -11.8%      -3.8%      -4.1%      -4.1%      -3.6%      -4.4%      -6.8%      -6.2%          -10.4%       -5.0%      -2.1%
Net Private Foreign Direct Investment                20.0       26.0       40.0       65.0      200.0       500.0     300.0       250.0            31.4      263.0      335.8
Long-term Loans (net)                               -56.5      -271.0      -25.3      31.4       -51.8       -8.2      50.3       93.4              4.3       23.0      100.1
OtherCapital (net, incl. errors and omissions)      639.5      771.0      617.4      488.5      402.4      387.9      221.5      249.5            833.1      350.0      260.6
Change, Gross Foreign Reserves (minus = incr.)       47.0      -298.4     -361.9    -290.9    -265.1       -504.9      69.7        58.7          -348.6    -186.5      -446.3
Net Foreign Assets (new definition beginning 1995)                        427.0      619.9      820.0    1,270.9    1,221.8    1,176.3                      1,021.8    2,037.0
Net Foreign Assets (as months of merch. imports)                             1.4        1.8       2.3        3.2        2.8         2.4                        2.5        3.0



Annex III
Page 4 of 4
Key Economic Indicators (cont.)
Actual          Estimated I                       Projeeted                                    Five-Year Period Averages
199       :1994      01995  :  1996    I 1997            19          1999      :2000   |        1991-95  | 1996-00  | 2001-05
Memorandum Items9
Real Annual Growth Rates:
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                             6.8%        7.8%      16.8%        6.8%       8.3%        8.4%       8.4%        8.5%             8.0%/       8.1%        8.7%
Primary                                             15.7%       0.3%       24.6%        5.2%       6.7%        6.8%       6.8%        6.8%             7.7%        6.5%       6.9%/e
Manufactures                                         9.7%       14.9%      11.0%       10.0%      11.0%       11.0%       11.0%      11.0%             5.4%       10.8%       11.01'/o
Merchandise Imports (CIF)                             8.2%       -7.6%       3.4%        7.6%       7.1%        7.7%       7.4%        7.3%             5.5%        7.4%        6.9'/!
Public Finance (pet. GDP, current market prices)
Current Revenues                                      31.3%       29.7%      31.4%       31.1%      31.5%       31.2%       30.6%      30.1%            30.8%       30.9%       29.0%
CurentlExpenditures                                   31.0%       29.9%      29.7%       28.4%      27.6%       27.0%       26.1%      25.6%            32.5%       26.9%       23.8%
Current Account Surplus (+) or Deficit(-)              0.2%       -0.1%        1.7%       2.7%       4.0%        4.2%        4.5%       4.5%             -2.0%       4.0%        5.2%
Capital Expenditures                                   6.1%        6.0%       6.8%        6.9%       6.6%        6.2%        6.0%       5.9%             5.8%        6.3%        5.4%
Overall Budget Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)             -5.8%       -6.2%      -5.1%       -4.2%       -2.6%      -2.0%       -1.5%       -1.4%            -7.7%      -2.3%       -0.3%
Foreign Financing                                      3.2%        3.3%       3.9%/o      6.1%       0.8%       -0.6%       -3.4%      -2.7%             6.2%        0.0%       -2.7%
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)                    117.6%      115.5%     112.8%      112.8%     113.8%      113.8%      113.8%     113.8%           120.2%      113.6%      113.5%
Growth ofM2                                            6.9%        8.0%       7.6%       10.2%       10.3%       9.8%       10.3%      10.1%             10.8%      10.1%        9.6%
PrivateSectorCreditGrowth/TotalCreditGrowth           85.0%       98.1%      77.5%       94.1%      105.3%      94.2%      93.1%       93.5%            77.1%       95.9%       91.5%
Price Indices (1990=100)
Consumer Price Index (growth rate)                     4.7%        3.5%       2.4%        4.5%       3.0%        2.6%        3.6%       3.4%             4.5%        3.4%        2.6%
GDP Deflator (growth rate)                             3.1%        3.9%       3.6%        4.0%        3.0%       2.6%        2.6%       2.6%             4.2%        3.0%        2.6%
Real Intcrest Rates                                    3.6%        4.0%       4.7%        3.1%       3.5%        3.5%        2.5%       2.7%             3.4%        3.1%        3.5%
MerchandiseExportPriceIndex                            100.7       106.7      113.5       116.1      116.6       118.7      121.8       124.9            105.7       119.6      133.6
MerchandiselmportPricelndex                             99.4       102.4      108.5       110.7      110.8       113.5      116.9       120.3            101.9       114.4      129.3
MerchandiseTermsofTradelndex                           101.4       104.2      104.6       104.9      105.3       104.5      104.1       103.9            103.7       104.5      103.3
Real Exchange Rate Index (USS/JD) (+=apprec.)          102.8      102.7        99.2       100.0      101.4       101.9      102.1       102.5            101.3       101.6      103.4
Debt and Debt Service (USSmillions)
Total DebtOutstanding and Disbursed (TDO)            6,755.2    6,868.0    7,096.4    7,283.7    7,314.0    7,348.5    7,383.5    7,429.9              6,774.6    7,351.9    7,473.6
Net Disbursements                                      -87:2     -201.0        95.7       129.4       13.2        45.8       29.7        80.1             40.6        59.7       89.8
Total Debt Serviee                                     560.0      752.3       816.9       873.5      908.0       867.2      862.4       840.7            687.8       870.4      955.4
Debt and Debt Service Indicators:
TDO/Exports goods, services, workers' remit.        170.5%     165.4%      146.3%     138.1%      127.0%      116.3%     106.8%      97.4%            175.5%      116.6%      72.6%
TDO / GDP                                           122.8%     114.5%      107.7%     101.5%       93.3%      85.3%       77.7%      71.0%            125.4%      85.5%       54.1%
TDS/Exportsgoods,services,workers'remit.             14.1%      18.1%       19.6%      18.4%       17.0%       14.9%      13.2%       11.8%            18.3%       15.1%       9.7%






IM A GI t,"
I I1 A w.-  N  o_
Report  No:  FP             700C)4  JO; 
J. yI: r, e ' 0p



