Report No. PIC4205
Project Name                   Jordan- Second Economic Reform and (&)
Development Loan (ERDL-II)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Economic Management
Project ID                     JOPA44139
Loan Amount                    US$120.0 million
Implementing Agency            Government, represented by the Ministry
of Planning as main coordinator.
Contact Mr. Nabil Ammari,
Fax No. 9-626-649341
Prepared                       August 14, 1996
Appraisal Date                 August 1996
Projected Board Date           November 19, 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.        The Government's Economic and Social Development Plan for
1993-1997 stipulated a range of broad principles which are intended to
guide the future course of the national economy. The first principle is
the 'liberalization of the economy and its institutions, elimination of
distortions obstructing sound economic performance, and development of
an appropriate investment climate.'
2.        In a subsequent medium-term policy framework paper, the
Government in September 1995 further articulated and updated its vision
of the path to an open, competitive, business-friendly environment for
the end of the 1990s. The goal would be to deepen and extend
macroeconomic stabilization, trade liberalization, financial sector
reform, legislative reform, and adjust the role of the state to promote
a better climate for private sector development and competitive
investments.
3.        Maintaining macroeconomic stability would provide the
necessary basis for structural and sectoral reforms which would reduce
the reliance on external financing, redress long-term structural
imbalances, and enhance the prospects for sustainable long-run growth.
In this regard, the Government has strengthened the incentives to save
through tax reform and rationalization. Continued adoption of strong
fiscal adjustment measures, would boost public sector savings. The
Government would also continue to adopt and improve indirect monetary
control mechanisms, such as open market operations, to reduce the costs
of financial intermediation and to improve the incentives for financial
savings.
4.        Extending trade liberalization and greater integration into
world markets would create the incentives for firms to improve their
efficiency and technical standards so as to realize their export



potential. In this regard, the Government is actively: (a) assuring
potential investors of its medium-term trade liberalization objectives;
(b) negotiating accession to the World Trade Organization; (c)
negotiating a Partnership Agreement with the European Union; (e) further
reducing the level and dispersion of tariffs and eliminating most tariff
exemptions; (f) setting internationally accepted product standards; (g)
streamlining customs procedures; and (h) improving the duty drawback and
temporary admission mechanisms for imported inputs to export production.
5.        Financial sector deepening - efficiently providing a variety
of financial services for investors and savers to choose from - in order
to mobilize savings for real sector growth, channel them to the best
investments, and enable the financial sector to become a growth center
in its own right to enable it to compete in serving the regional
economies. The Government's reforms are designed to improve competition
and efficiency in this sector; and will foster the development of long-
term financing instruments, both equity and debt, which are not yet
widely available. To this end, the Government is formulating, or has
begun to implement, plans to: (a) enhance banking competition; (b)
reduce credit subsidies; (c) strengthen bank supervision; (d) facilitate
the access of companies to corporate bond financing, and the development
of secondary markets for long-term papers; (e) facilitate the
development of non-bank financial institutions, such as leasing,
factoring, and venture capital companies; (f) modernize and computerize
trading in shares and the structure of the Amman Financial Market; (g)
lift restrictions on the foreign exchange interbank market; and (h)
facilitate the development of contractual savings institutions
(insurance and pension funds), and strengthen their role as suppliers of
long-term finance.
6.        The Government is convinced that long-run sustainable growth
rests on a growing role of the private sector and redefinition of the
role of the state in the economy. To this end, Government policy
actions will focus first on liberalizing the regulatory framework
affecting business entry, operation (including pricing policy), and
exit; as well as separating policy, regulatory, and business operation
functions. In August 1995, Parliament passed a new Telecommunications
Law creating a separate independent regulatory body and opening the
sector to domestic and foreign private investors. Parliament has also
amended the Income Tax Law and the GST Law, and enacted a new Investment
Law. The latter has made approval of investments more automatic,
removed the ceiling on foreign investment, granted national treatment to
foreign investors, adopted international practice in dispute settlement,
and created more efficient tax incentives for investors. The Government
is now in the process of revising the Customs Law and the entire set of
business laws. In a second, overlapping phase, the Government intends
to privatize public enterprises and divest Government holdings in public
shareholding companies. It is already selling its shares in hotels, and
has announced its intention to privatize the Jordan Telecommunications
Company, the Jordan Electricity Authority, and Jordan Cement Factories.
7.        An important concomitant measure is to ensure that the reforms
are politically and socially robust and to address poverty in the short
term through the provision of compensatory mechanisms (consistent with
- 2 -



the outward-oriented growth goal) for the poor and those who may lose
from these reforms.    A vital short-term approach is to improve the
efficiency of the existing social safety nets. These, supported by
Governmental agencies and NGOs, include cash transfers, health care
subsidies, food coupons, aid to the disabled and orphans, in-kind
grants, and employment through income-generating projects. In the
medium-term, broad-based economic growth as a result of the Government's
reform program will be the most efficient way of poverty alleviation.
8.        In support of the Government's medium-term adjustment and
structural reform program, the IMF approved a three-year Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) in May 1994 (SDR 127 million). The Bank supported the
program through an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL), and an
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan. The adjustment efforts have been
supported also by successive debt rescheduling (March, 1992 and July
1994) through the Paris Club, by a Debt and Debt Service Reduction
(DDSR) operation with the London Club, and a debt buy-back arrangement
with the former Soviet Union. Official bilateral debt reductions were
granted by several creditor countries (US, UK, Germany and France) in
the order of $800 million.
9.        In order to further support the Government's reforms, the Bank
approved the First Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I) in the
amount of $80 million in October 1995 with cofinancing of $80 million
from Japan and $12 million from Italy. After successful completion of
scheduled reviews under the IMF program, Jordan entered into a new
extended arrangement (EFF) with the IMF in February 1996 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 200 million. The proposed ERDL-II would support the
continuation of the rapid reform pace. On the occasion of a
Consultative Group meeting in July 1996 donors expressed strong support
for the Government's program.
Project Objectives
10.       The key objective of the project is to support the
Government's reform program which is aimed at sustaining high economic
growth with exports playing a major role. Hence, policy direction
supported by this loan is the removal of remaining trade and investment
barriers; a closer trade relation (an Association Agreement) with the
European Union and accession to the World Trade Organization. To benefit
from a better integration in the world economy the loan supports the
Government's efforts to broaden and deepen financial intermediation, to
provide an enabling business environment and increase the private
sector's share of the economy through privatization of public and
publicly-owned enterprises. This is expected to reduce uncertainty,
raise the level and efficiency of investments and lead to accelerated
growth. Furthermore, the proposed loan would provide Jordan with short-
term balance of payments support in order to strengthen its
international reserves position.
Project Description
11.       The ERDL-II supports trade and investment policy reforms to:
(a) further reduce anti-export bias, foster integration with world
markets, and reduce transaction costs from administrative obstacles,
-3 -



through tariff reform and rationalization, and modernization of the
Customs Law and administration; (b) improve banking competition and the
efficiency of financial intermediation; (c) improve viability of
financial institutions; (d) encourage long-term saving and promote
development of new financial instruments and markets; (e) encourage
entry, improve incentives, and offer national treatment to foreign
investors; (f) modernize a broad range of business laws; and (g) improve
opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, allow the
Government to concentrate on its core functions, and achieve greater
efficiency through privatization and restructuring.
12.       Technical Assistance. The ERDL-II is accompanied by technical
assistance projects in the areas of privatization, legal reform, and
financial sector reform. These projects are financed by grants from the
Bank's Institutional Development fund, Japan's PHRD funds, and USAID.
Financing Plan
13.       The Bank loan will disburse in one tranche.
Project Implementation
14.       The Ministry of Planning will be the principal coordinating
agency, with the support of an implementation committee comprising the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central
Bank of Jordan.
Poverty Category
15.       Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.       The proposed operation has no direct and significant
environmental impact.
Contact Point:
Christian Petersen
MN2CO
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: (202) 473-3965
Fax: (202) 477-1603
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 30, 1996.
- 4 -



