Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6982-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
August 1, 1988
Country Department IV
Asia Region
This document has a restdicted distibuton and may be used by ecdpients only In the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ = Rupees (Rs) 13.5
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 Kilogram (kg) = 2.205 pounds
1 Quintal        =  (100 kg) = 220.5 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AICCIP   -   All India Coordinated Crop Improvement Project
AICT     -   All India Coordinated Trials
APIA     -   Action Plan Implementation Agreement
CMc      -   Coordinators Management Group
CSC      -   Central Seed Committee
CSCB     -   Central Seed Certification Board
CSTL     -   Central Seed Testing Laboratory
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOI      -   Government of India
GOS      -   Government of State
HYV      -   High Yielding Variety
IARI     -   Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR     -   Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
MT       -   Metric Tons
NABARD   -   National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
NARP     -   National Agricultural Research Project
NSC      -   National Seeds Corporation
NSP      -   National Seed Program
NSP I    -   First National Seeds Project
NSP II   -   Second National Seeds Project
NSP III  -   Third National Seeds Project
PB       -   Participating Bank
PC       -   Principal Consultant
PCR      -   Project Completion Report
PFC      -   Project Funding Committee
PI       -   Principal Investigator
PMU      -   Project Management Unit
SAI      -   Seed Association of India
SAU      -   State Agricultural University
SCA      -   State Certification Agency
SFCI     -   State Farm Corporation of India
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditure
SSC      -   State Seed Corporation
STL      -   Seed Testing Laboratory
TOR      -   Terms of Reference



FO OFFICIAL USW ONLY
STAFF APPRAI SAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page go.
CREDIT AND PROJECT 8 ARY  .. . ..*.**.....**..*e*.                  Iv
I.  BECTOR BACKGROMUD  I.........e      .......................o......    1
A* introduction ..I..........e.ee.e.ee*e.....................         1
B. Agriculture in the Indian Econom           I.......................  1
C. The Seed Industry ........I..e......                              1
Historical Deelopment         I.................................  1
Industry Structure ....*.* ....e .....................            3
D. Variety Development .........**..         .....................   S
S. hxperi.nce with Past Projects and Lessons Learned    .......      5
II.  PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES ...........................          S
A* Rationale *.................................                      8
So Objectives.............................                           9.
III.  THE PROJECT *.e...eee.e...e.e..oe..eeoo.oe...................         9
A. Description ...........9.........................*.               9
Summary Features             ..............                      10
Detailed Features       ......................................*    11
Project Component - Investment Credit          ................    11
Project Component - Productive Support         ................    11
Program Component        ...................................*    13
So Project Costs ..........................                         14
C. financing                                                        i....   S
S. Retroactive Financing and Special Account        o...............    1
F* Procuremet .       .     *,**- ....-...*. . . .................    19
This report is b"ed on the finding of preappraial an  appraisal
missions in January/February 1987 and July/Aupust 1986. Mission
members included C. Ptb        han, Task     agr I. spworth, ¢. luasell,
a. Kalkat, K. Aichandran, a. Coz (coan ultat) and A. Kbanna
(consultant).  Researc  ad computing "ssis'       e was provided by
T. Eatoque and word processing was done by b. Carmq and
P.  Sunstawt. .
Pe    -                                                                    ..
Thi documentbu a h matedb dtibuton and may be _W by edpients.ol In tho p merne
of their ffcia dutis Its contents may not othrwie be dicsed without Word Bank autobwlai



-ii-
Table of Contents (continuation)                                        Page No.
IV.  ORCANIZATION ANDMAN MENT.................................    20
A. Project Margement        ......................................    20
B. Lending Protures.............................o.......    22
Inkvestment credit ............................               22
Productive 8upport Funds ........e      .....................    23
Program Component  ....       .............*....o e...e.    23
C. Project Reporting ......................     e...........    24
D. Accounting and Auditing        .................................    24
V.  DAND, MAKETIN  AND PRICING ..............................    25
VI* FINANCIAL ANALYSIS...................... .........    26
A. Financial Oituation of Participating Institutions .......   26
B. Financial Projections of Representative Investment
Models ..   ................g....... eeee....ee.    27
VII.  JUSTIFICATION         .................. .......   .........    27
A* Benefits ..............................e.. ..................    27
So Risks X***sssXX*****X********                                  28
VIII.  AGRIEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMKENDATIONS .....       ................    29
List of Annexes
ANNEX I    -  Seed Industry Regulation
ANNEX SI   -  Experience with NSP I and II and Lessons Learned
ANNX III  -  Seed Production Systems
ANNEX IV   -  Projected Public Sector Corporation Certified Seed
Sales by end of Project
AN=E  V    -  Project Costs
Table 1   -  Project Cost Summary
Table 2   -  Variety Development Component
Table 3   -  Summary of Proposed Investments by State Agricultural Universities
Table 4   -  Summary of Proposed Investmets by State Certification Agencies
Table 5   -  Model for Strengthening Seed Testing Laboratories
Table 6   -  Central Seed Testing Laboratory
Table 7   -  Seed Cleaning on Farmers' fields
Table 8   -  Training Component
ANNEX VI   -  National Research Centers, Crop Directorates and Coordinated
Projects to be Supported under the Project
AMNEX VII - Variety Development Consultant - Terms of Reference
AMNEX VIII -  Schedule of Estimated Disbursemets
AMNE  IX   -  Principal Consultant to the PMU - Draft Terms of Reference
AMNEX X    -  Consultant to Seed Corporations - Draft Terms of Reference



-iii-
Table of Contents (continuation)
AMUE XI   -  A Representative Action Plan
ANNEX XII - Financial Analysis
ANNEX XIII - Economic Justification
ANNEX XIV - Selected documents available in the Project File
Chart      -  Implementation Schedule (No. 40723)
Map        -  IBRD 1996CR



-iv-
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers        India, Acting by its President
Beneficiaries:   States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Naharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
Rajasthmn, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal; National Bank
for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD); and the
Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR).
Amount:          SDR 103.6 Million (US$150 million equivalent).
Termst           Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Onlending
Terms:
(Pl-ec-t
Component)     (a) Investment Credit (GOT will bear for&ign exchange risk)
OOI to NABARD: Repayment of the principal in a lump sum
at the eid of 15 years at an interest rate of 71 per
annum.
NABARD to ParticipatinA  Bank (PB):  Repayment over a
maximum of 15 years, including a maximum of 3 years
grace period for principal and interest at an interest
rate of 81 per annum for 801 of sub-loans made to
sub-borrowers.
PBs to Sub-borrowers: Repayment over a maximum of 15
years, including a maximum of 3 years grace period for
principal and interest at an interest rate of 12-1/22
per annum.
(b) Productive 8pport Grant Funds (GOI will bear foreign
exchange r sk)
G0I to State Governments: As part of Central Government
assistance to States, on prevailing terms and conditions.



ProJect
Description: Project fund& would support the development of a farmer
oriented, viable seed industry leading to an increase in the
supply of good quality improved seed and the rapid spread of
now varieties. To achieve this aim, the project would seek
to strengthen public sector seed corporations and promote
investments by the private sector in order to expand and
modernize the seed industry. The project would also seek
to facilitate the evolution of a suitable institutional
framework to ensure the long-term viability of the seed
industry.
The project component would finance expansion of seed
processing and.storage facilities in public seed corporations
and private seed companies; strengthening of the management
of variety development programs coordinated by ICAR; farm
development for breeder and foundation seed production by
Agricultural Universities; expenditures associated with
quality control and seed industry regulation; consultancies
aimed at assisting institutional developmenit in participating
seed corporations; and training to expand and up-date
management and technical skills of managers in the industry.
The program component would provide support to key
institutional reforms, mainly related to ensuring the
financial viability and long term sustainability of public
sector seed corporations. The incremental crop production
resulting from the improved seed produced by the public
sector seed corporations, is estimated at U9S45 million
annually. The main risks relate to the project's
institutional objectives which would require substantial
comitment and adjustments at the level of GOI, participating
State Governments and concerned seed corporations.



-vi-
Estimated Cost: a/
-----USS Million--
Local   Foreign    Total
A. Investment Credit                   37.1       2.8      39.9
B. Productive Support
1. Variety Development               3.6      0.3        3.9
2. Breeder and Foundation
Seed Production                 1.0      0.1        1.1
3. Regulation and Quality
Control                         3.7      0.5        4.2
4. Seed Cleaning on Farmers'
Fields                          0.2      -          0.2
5. Institutional Strengthening
and Training                    0.7      0.3        1.0
Subtotal Productive Support       9.2      1.2       10.4
Physical Contingencies            3.3      0.2        3.5
Price Contingencies              13.2      0.5       13.7
C. Total Project Component             62.8       4.7      67.5
D. Program Component                    -       110.0     110.0
Total Project Costs                 62.8    114.7      177.5
Financing Plan:
--Us$ Million --
Local     Foreign    Total
Project Cogonent
Sub-borrowers                         15.3        1.2       16.5
Participating Banks                    7.0        0.4        7.4
GOI                                    1.8        0.3        2.1
State Governments                      1.1        0.4        1.5
IDA                                   37.6        2.4       40.0
Program Component
IDA                                    -        110.0      110.0
Total                                 62.8      114.7      177.5
Estimated Disbursements b/
FY89  FY90  PY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Project Component              3     2     5      6     8     8      8
Program Component            40      -    35    35      -     -      -
Total Cumulative             43    45    85   126   134   142   150
Economic Rate of Return:  32X
(of project component)
a/ Includes taxes and duties amounting to $1.4 million.
ii IDA fiscal years.



INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT (NSP III)
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    The proposed Third National Seeds Project (NSP III) would be the Bank
Group's fourth involvement in the seed industry in India. Previous Bank
operations have supported the creation of infrastructure necessary for the
production, processing and marketing of quality seed and to the development
of the institutional framework -within which the seed industry currently
operates.
B. Agriculture in the Indian Economy
1.02    India has a population of about 800 million, which is growing at an
annual rate of around 2.21. The average per capita annual income is cur-
rently estimated at around US$270. Agriculture provides over a third of the
country's GDP, engages about two-thirds of the labor force, and accounts for
about a quarter of the country's merchandise exports. Agricultural output
has grown steadily during the past decades, with particularly impressive
gains in foodgrain production which amounted to about 150 million tons in
1985/86 (after reaching a peak of 152 million tons in 1983/84), compared with
121 million tons in 1975/76. This has been possible as a result of substan-
tial increases in the area under 4.rrigation, increased use of high yielding
varieties (HYVa), of fertilizer, and improved husbandry practices. However,
emerRing trends in the country indicate that it will not be easy to maintain
agricultural productivity increases to the same extent in the medium to long
term, and the ability to meet future demand increases will continue to be the
main challenge facing Indtan agriculture, underscoring the need for continu-
ing improvements in the critical support services to agriculture. In this
respect good quality seed is a vital input in the agricultural production
process, and the timely availability and quality of seeds of suitable
varieties will be key determinants to increasing agricultural productivity
and making more effective use of past investments in infrastructure and
research. Consequently, it is imperative that an efficient farmer responsive
seed irdustry evolves in India which is capable of producing quality seed at
relatively low cost.
C. The Seed Industry
Historical Development
1.03    Before the 1960sp the seed industry was little developed apart from a
small number of private companies dealing with high valie vegetable and
flower seeds.  The reloase of HYVs in the early 1960's led to an increased
demand for seed which had a catalytic effect in stimulating the developjwnt



-2-
of an indigenous seed industry. Through the mid-sixties seed output expanded
rapidly, and between 1963-64 and 1968-69 the area under certified seed
production increased from 360 ha to 35,000 ha, with the increase being mainly
confined to the private sector.
1.04    Public sector involvement in the seed industry on a national scale
began with the establishment of the National Seed Corporation (NSC) in 1963,
which was charged with the responsibility of promoting seed industry develop-
ment from production through processing, storage and marketing, and estab-
lishing a system of quality control. In the initial years of operation, NSC
concerned itself mainly with foundation seed and some certified seed
production, and with seed certification after the enactment of the Seed Act
in 1966. Bank involvement in the industry began with the financing of the
'arai Seeds Project in 1969.
1.05    Sustained demand for seeds however did not expand as expected con-
straining the development of the fledgling industry. In the self-pollinated
crops, especially wheat and ricet farmer retention and farmer to farmer
transfer accounted for much of the seed used, while some of the HYVs were
inferior in grain quality to traditional types and thus lost favor among
farmers. By the end of the 1960s, the industry suffered from an excess
capacity problem resulting in a major shake-up with many private companies
leaving the industry. Demand began to pick up again in 1971-72, but the
private seed companies now lacked the resources and confidence to meet the
seed requirements in the country. GOI concerned about the need to meet
farmers seed requirements widened the scope of NSC's role. Consequently, NSC
expanded its certified seed production program which in 1974/75 amounted to
73,000 MT (about 501 of national output), thereby becoming the largest com-
mercial seed producer in the country.
1.06    Following the considerable changes which took place in the early
1960s, GOI carried out an indepth review of the seed industry. 1/ Based on
the findings of this review, and the encouraging experience with the Terai
Seeds Project, GOI decided to reorganize and expand the seed industry and
prepared a National Seed Program (NSP). The main emphasis of the progzam was
on creating a national institutional framework for support and coordination
of all facets of production, storage, marketing and quality control of cer-
tified seed. One important feature of the Program was the formulation of
two National Seeds Projects (NSP I and NSP II) which, inter alia, established
State Seeds Corporations (S8Cs) in nine states to take over from the State
Departments of Agriculture (DOA) and NSC the responsibilities for the produc-
tion and handling of seed in their respective States. This concept has since
been expanded to cover other states, and currently there are SCs in 13
States.
1/ Covernment of India "Seed Review Team Report", 1968, and National
Commission on Agriculture "Interim Report on Multiplication and
Distribution of Quality Seed Pertaining to High Yielding Varieties and
Hybrid of Cereals", New Delhi, Novembar 1971.



-3-
Industry Structure
1.07    Production.  In India the production of seed is organized in a three
stage multiplication chain. The initial nucleus seed (produced by the plant
breeder) is multiplied to give breeder seed, then multiplied into foundation
seed, and then multiplied into certified seed - which is sold to farmers for
sowing of commercial crops.
1.08    Presently, production of breeder seed and foundation seed is the
responsibility of 18 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and 6 Indian
Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) Institutes. However, both the NSC
and the State Farm Corporation of India (SFCI) have also become significant
prodacers of foundation seed. Production of certified seed is the respon-
sibility of NSC and the 13 SSCs in the public sector I/ and a large number of
private seed companies. Actual certified seed multiplication is done by
individual farmers acting as contract growers to these organizations. In
terms of volume, the public seed corporations dominate the organized seed
sector, accounting for almost all certified seed production of self-
pollinated varieties. 2/ Public sector production of certified seed amounted
to about 240,000 tons in 1984/85. Of this, wheat and paddy seed constitute
about 601, and cereals as a group for over 75%. The private sector con-
centrates on hybrids (mainly maize, jowar, 3/ bajra 4/ and cotton), vegetable
and flower seeds and is thought to account for at least half of the total
commercial production of these seeds in India. 5/ The basic reason for the
private sector's focus on these crops is that they involve low production
volumes (less infrastructure development) and higher margins. Concomitantly,
the private sector has so far shown little interest in developing large
programs in self pollinated crops (especially cereals), which involve high
volumes in return for very small margins. However, with the continuing
improvements in the operating environment and incentives framework for
greater private initiative it is conceivable that the private sector would
increase and widen their involvement in the industry in the future.
1/ SFCI is also a significant producer of certified seed using its own
farms and facilities. Limited certified seed is also produced on
Department of Agriculture farms.
2/ However, the major share (about 80-90%) of total seed production of
these varieties is still done privately by farmers for their own use or
transfer to other farmers.
3/ Sorghum
4/ Pearl-Millet
S/ In the private sector there are about six large seed companies (turnover
exceeding Rs 50 million)$ 7-10 medium size companies (turnover Rs 10-50
million) and 40-50 small companies (turnover Rs 2-10 million). In addi-
tion there are very small companies numbering about 100 which as they
get smaller, blend with a seed gr-wer cum farmer situation.



-4-
1.09    Seed Marketing and Pricing.  Seed is marketed through both public and
private sector distributional outlets. The NSC and the SSCs use their own
outlets as well as cooperatives and private dealers registered with the
corporations. Some SSCs still make intensive use of their respective DOAs to
market and distribute seed through government sponsored programs such as
minikit schemes designed to field test pre-release varieties and later to
disseminate newly released varieties produced by the public sector, Private
sector seed pruducers use their own network of dealers. These dealerships
are well established and a strong link exist between them and the seed
companies. Some of the larger well established companies also market some
seed through the more successful cooperatives based in important crop growing
areas.
1.10    All seed grown by contract growers for seed corporations and the
private sector meeting the specified standards, attract a premium price over
and above the commercial grain price fcr that crop. The premium can vary
between 25Z for cereals to over 100% for hybrids. In the public sector, the
N8C is usually the retail price setter with the SSCs following NSC prices in
determining their own for similar or substitute varieties. For self pol-
linated field crops, an accepted basis is to add a margin of 15-25% on
production costs. For seed of hybrid cereals and vegetables, prices to some
degree reflect market trends. However, there is Government intervention in
the pricing of seed produced by public sector corporations with the degree
of intervention varying from state to state. The SSCs have generally been
constrained from increasing seed prices in response to increased costs of
production or to price seed at levels t4hich reflect market trends (par-
ticularly for hybrids) which would allow them to cross subsidize some of the
more uneconomic lines. In the case of seed produced by the private sector,
there is no direct government intervention in the determination of prices.
However, in setting prices, private seed companies are influenced by the
price controls placed on similar or substitute varieties sold by the public
sector corporations.
1.11    Regulation of the Industry and Quality Control.  Overall policy with
regard to the seed industry is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) within the legislative framework of the Seed Act of 1966 and the Seed
Rules (framed under the Act) notified in 1968. The basic regulatory struc-
ture adequately ensures quality control of certified seed production and does
not constrain private sector involvement and expansion (more details are
provided in Annex 1). The Seed Act specifies, inter alia, the functions of
regulatory bodies associated with the industry as well as the rules for
notification of new varieties, specification of minimum limits of germination
and purity, regulation of sale of seeds, and certification procedures. The
Central Seed Committee (CSC) acts as the principle advisor to GOI on
implementation and enforcement of the Act, and all other seed matters. The
WOA also receives informal advice on industry matters from the Seed
Association of India (SAI), a seed producers' organization encompassing both
public sector seed corporations and almost all the large and medium-size
private seed companies in the country.
1.12    In terms of quality control, the most significant provisions of the
Seeds Act and Rules relate to seed certification and inspection. Under the
Act, each state is empowered to establish a Seed Certification Agency (SCA)
to provide quality control services to seed producers and third party guaran-



-5-
tees of the quality of each seed lot. The Central Seed Certification Board
(CSCB) is responsible for the coordination of the various states' certifica-
tion programs to ensure interstate uniformity of standards and procedures.
Autonomous SCA have been esteblished, and in most cases have been operating
satisfactorily for some years in almost all States proposing to participate
in the project. 1/ These are supported by 70 notified Seed Testing
Laboratories (STLs) operated throughout India by respective DOAs.
D. Variety Development
1.13    Agricultural research, in India, including variety development is
mainly a state responsibility though the Indian Agricultural Research
Institute (IARI) also plays a significant role. SAUs undertake this function
on behalf of the StAte Government (OS) and receive the main part of their
financial support from the States. The Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR) serves as a national coordinating and supporting agency and
as such, the agricultural research system is a cooperative program between
GOI and the individual states.
1.14    In this structure, variety development is predominantly carried out
in the public sector (especially for self pollinated crops) although there is
a small but growing private sector involvement which focuses mainly on hybrid
cereals, flowers and vegetables. Public sector plant breeding is coordinated
by ICAR operating through 21 All India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects
(AICCIP), five Crop Directorates and two National Research Centers. The
AICCIPs are carried out by 15 of ICAR's own institutes and 25 SAUs at
research centers located in different parts of the country and focusing on
various agro-climatic zones.  Program objectives are set by an unnual
workshop of participating scientists working on the particular crop, and the
program is then coordinated at the national level by a Coordinator assisted
by Principal Investigators (PIs) for specific disciplines and Zonal
Coordinators stationed at the various SAUs and ICAR institutes. Basic
genetic material from which new varieties are developed is available from the
institutions' own resources and from the National Bureau of Plant Genetic
Resources, through which India has established a working relationship with
international agricultural research centers. The public sector variety
development effort has resulted in about 1,400 new varieties being produced
and released in the last 15 years, but only a relatively small proportion of
these have been widely accepted by the farmers, suggesting that there is a
need to improve the focus and management of these programs.
8. Experience with Past Projects and Lessons Learned
1.15    The Bank Group has financed three seed projects in India.  The first
one, approved in 1969, was the Terai Seed Project (Loan 614-IN for US$13
million). This was followed under GOI's National Seeds Program by the
National Seeds Project (NSP I), Loan 1273-IN for US$25.0 million which was
approved in May 1976, and the Second National Seeds Project (NSP II) Credit
1/ In West Bengal the SCA is still attached to the DOA, but establishment
of an autonomous institution is under active consideration by the
Government of West Bengal.



-6-
816-IN for US$16.0 million approved two years later in 1978. All three
loans/credits are now closed and disbursements have been completed. The
completion report on the Terai Seeds Project was issued in June 1979 (Report
No. 2551), and the joint completion report for NSP I and II in June 1987
(Report No. 6836).
1.16    The Terai Seed Project represented the Bank Group's first lending
operation in the field of seed production. The project focussed on the
multiplication of locally tested HYVs, improvement of seed processing
facilities and quality control and was reasonably successful despite some
implementation delays. The fact that the project came on stream at a time
wnen there was heavy demand for seed of the newly released HYVs, and very
little competition from other seed producers in a period when the industry
was just beginning to develop, contributed considerably to its success.
1.17    NSP I and NSP II were designed, based on the Terai project concept,
to support GOI in the implementation of the National Seed Program. The
overall objective of the projects was to develop state institutions and
create new infrastructure for increasing the production of certified seeds.
However, NSP I, and to a lesser extent NBP TI, were implemented considerably
behind schedule, particularly with respect to construction of physical
infrastructure, though by Loan/Credit closing of these projects most of the
intended civil works were completed. A more detailed exposition of the
experience with NSP. & II is given in Annex II.  However, it is worth noting
that a major adverse consequence experienced during implementation of these
two projects was the deterioration in the financial situation of many of the
public agencies (SSCs/NSC, SAUs) involved. In the case of the SSCs and the
NSC this was mainly due to the lack of market sensitivity in planning produc-
tion programs and an erosion in their independence to make normal commercial
decisions. With reference to the latter, Governments periodically intervened
in management decisions regarding seed procurement levels, pricing, buffer
stock operations, and staffing which contributed to a deterioration in the
commercial orientation and competitiveness of these corporations. The SAUs
on their part were organizationallv ill-equipped to run breeder and founda-
tion seed production programs along commercial lines which become increas-
ingly apparent as many of them experienced difficulties over-time in meeting
their financial obligations related to these seed programs.
1.18    The joint Project Completion Report (PCR) for NSP I and II generally
concluded that an efficient seed industry with balanced public and private
sector participation had not yet fully evolved in India. The PCR stressed
that the historical experience suggests that there is a need to realign the
structural and institutional framework of the industry to enable it to func-
tion better, particularly as the public sector's role in the industry is
constrained by the failure to develop seed corporations along commercial
lines. The past implementation experience also suggests that there is con-
siderable potential for an enhanced role by the private sector. The institu-
tional and operating framework for private sector involvement has become
increasingly favorable in recent years and this reflected in the growing
significance of private sector involvement in variety development and
breeder, foundation and certified seed production (particularly of the higher
value hybrid cereals, flowers and vegetables) in the country. The five main



-7-
lessons learned from the implementation experience of NSP I and II are dis-
cussed below. These lessons provide the basic concepts which underpin the
proposed project's design.
1.19    First, the financial viability and long term sustainability of public
sector seed corporations need to be considerably strengthened and these
institutions need to become commercially oriented in their business outlook.
The nature of the structural, institutional and administrative changes neces-
sary to achieve these objectives would require commitment by not only the
8SCs and NBC but also by the GOSs and GOI. Many corporations require finan-
cial restructuring, particularly where burdens have accumulated due to past
losses. Many also require institutional strengthening for improved manage-
ment by introduction of proper and timely information systems and accounting
procedures.
1.20    Second, seed production by the SSCs and the NSC should oe demand
driven. Past experience clearly indicates that seed replacement rates used
to calculate seed demand have in some cases been overly optimistic, resulting
in excessive investment in seed processing capacity by some corporations.
Most seed of existing self-pollinated varieties will continue to be produced
informally by farmers for their use or for transfer to other farmers. The
cost effectiveness and simplicity of such a system of seed multiplication has
not received adequate recognition in the past. Consequently, the emphasis
should shift to providing the technical input to encourage farmers to grow
their own seed of self-pollinated varieties in a seed plot. This is clearly
a role for the extension service which should develop and promote simple
on-farm seed multiplication techniques (rogueing, separate harvesting, treat-
ment 1/ and storage). More details are given in Annex III. Concomitantly,
the future role of the SSCs and the NSC would be to concentrate on the
production and distribution of seeds of existing and newly released self-
pollinated varieties and other seeds/planting materials that the farmers
cannot produce thems-.ves, such as hybrids, vegetables, fodder crops, tree
seeds, etc. In the medium to long-term, the SSCs and the NSC should aim to
concentrate in areas of seed production where clear comparative advantages
exist, in relation to the farmers on one hand and the private sector seed
companies on the other.
1.21    Third, redefinition and realignment of the roles of the public sector
institutions involved in the seed industry are necessary. A basic concept
would be that commercial responsibilities for all public sector seed multi-
plication (breeder, foundation and certified seed) be vested with the SSCs
and NSC. This means that the commercial responsibility for production of
breeder and foundation seed should be removed from the SAUs in a phased
manner and their function focussed more aptly on their main role of develop-
ing new varieties. In parallel, the general role of the 8SCs and NBC should
be modified, with these corporations moving into breeder seed production and
expanding their foundation seed programs and not being largely restricted to
I/ Seeds are treated wiLh appropriate dressings in order to control seed
borne diseases and minimise pest attack during storage. The quantities
used are insignificant and do not pose an environmental or ecological
hazard when the seeds are sown on farmers' fields.



-8-
certified seed production as is presently the case. In this respect, GOI has
already taken an important first step in commencing discussions with GOS/SSCs
on the possibility of initiating this principle first with soyabeans and
groundnuts.
1.22    In the industry structure envisaged, the SSC would have the commer-
cial responsibility for multiplication of breeder seed and production of
foundation seed of varieties produced 1/ by their relevant SAU. In the short
and medium term when SSCs may not have adequate technical staff, breeder seed
production would be contracted with the SAU. Ownership of the seed crop
would, however, transfer to the SSC prior to harvest. The SSC would thus
control the production of breeder seed of varieties produced by its SAU for
its own certified seed program or for sale on a commercial basis to other
SSCs and private companies. The private sector could however still continue
to indent directly with the SAUs for its requirements of breeder seed on a
contractual basis.
1.23    Fourth, the development of a financially viable seed industry with
optimal public-private sector participation requires GOI's continued commit-
ment to stimulate greater private sector investment in the industry. Recent
steps taken by GOI, such as allowing the private seed companies greater
access to breeder seed produced by the public sector have helped improve the
operating environment for private seed companies.
1.24    Fifth, experience in India and other countries has shown that to
stimulate and maintain demand for seed, new varieties meeting farmers
requirements must become available on a frequent basis. This is particularly
so for self-pollinated varieties where farmer retention of seed is the norm.
Consequently, there is a need to improve the focus of the variety development
programs currently in operation in order to ensure that varieties being bred
have characteristics sought after by farmers.
II. PROJECT RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
A. Rationale
2.01    The proposed project intends to contribute to the further development
and strengthening of the seed industry in India. The project fits in well
with GOI's medium-term lending strategy to create an agricultural production
environment which will help the Indian farmer respond to growing commercial
opportunities by improving the quality of the core functional systems of
research, extension, credit and irrigation services. The seed sector is a
small but important component which helps to capitalize on the initiatives
undertaken in these functional systems. The expansion and modernization of
the seed industry would ensure the timely availability and quality of a vital
agricultural input.
1/ For varieties originally bred out of State, a system of sponsored or
maintenance breeders would need to be established to ensure that breeder
seed of all varieties grown in the State, and for which there is demand
for certified seed, would be produced in that State.



-9-
2.02    The seed industry in India is at a critical development stage.  The
public sector seed corporations require considerable financial and organiza-
tional strengthening along with a clear articulation of their role, if they
are to perform their development function and achieve sustainable financial
viability. The private seed industry is at the threshold where the evolution
of a right kind of institutional and operating framework could trigger a
major expansion in their activities. The Bank's support would contribute to
bringing about the key institutional and financial reforms necessary to
reorient the operations of public sector corporations along commercial lines
leading to the sustained development of an efficient industry structure. In
addition, the investments and itistitutional and management adjustments to be
supported under the project would help realize the full benefits from past
Bank supported investments in the seed industry.
B. Objectives
2.03    The main objective of the project is to support GOI's efforts to
assist the Indian farmers by ensuring the timely availability of quality
seeds of suitable varieties at economical prices, by the expansion and mod-
ernization of the seed industry. This objective is to be achieved by:
(a) reorienting the operations of national and state level public
sector seed corporations including those financed under NSP I &
II along commercial lines, with the emphasis on strengthening
management and ensuring the exercise of their autonomy in
production, pricing and management decisions;
(b) stimulating greater private sector inveatment in the industry.
(c) improving the management of public sector variety development
programs; and
(d) ensuring that adequate facilities are developed for seed industry
regulation and quality control.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01    The proposed NSP III would consist of a project component and a
program component. The project component would finance infrastructure
development for seed multiplication both for public and private enterprises;
expenditures associated with variety development and seed industry regulation
and quality control; seed cleaning on farmer's fields; consultancy services
focussed on institutional development and training. The states of Andhra
Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashra,
Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have indicated their inter-
est to receive funds under the project component. The program component
would support key institutional reforms needed to increase productivity and
efficiency of the public sector seed corporations.



-10-
(i) Summary Features:
3.02    Project Component.  About 80Z of funds under this component will bq
made available as a line of investment credit to be used for term lending by
Participating Banks (PMs) refinanced through The National Bank for
Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) to public sector seed corpora-
tions and private companies which meet prescribed eligibility criteria (para.
4.07). It is anticipated that this term lending would finance the followingt
(a) in public sector seed corporations - expansion and rehabilitation of
existing certified seed processing and storage facilities, and selec-
tive investments for foundation and breeder seed production, process-
ing and storage facilities; and
(b' in private seed companies - seed production, processing and storage
facilities, and R and D programs associated with variety development
activities.
3.03    The remaining funds under the project component will be channeled on
a grant basis to support the following productive support activities:
(a) Variety Development - strengthening the management of ICAR's coor-
dinated Crop Improvement Projects and financing of a consultant's
review of variety trials and evaluation procedures.
(b) Breeder and Foundation Seed Production - limited farm development for
breeder and foundation seed production in SAUs and some ancillary
facilities such as storage.
(c) Seed Industry Regulation and Quality Control - additional seed cer-
tification infrastructure and equipment, and the strengthening of
selected notified STLs. and establishment of a new Central Seed
Testing Laboratory (CSTL).
(d) Seed Cleaning on Farmers' Fields - provision of small mobile seed
cleaning plants to State DOAs to promote on-farm seed cleaning and
treatment.
(e) Institutional Strengthening - consultancy services to the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and to carry out reviews of the financial and
management structure and operating procedures of seed corporations;
and training for selected line managers from NSC, SFCI, SSC and the
private seed companies to improve their technical and managerial
skills.
3.04     rogar Cn2t .ent.  Under this component, funds will be made avail-
able to GOI in stages in recognition of key reforms undertaken to improve
industry efficiency. These reforms would particularly focus on reorienting
the operations of public sector seed corporations to enable them to become
financially viable and self-sustaining institutions exercising autonomy of
management and progressively reducing their dependence on government finan-
cial support.  The latter would require wide ranging reviews of the organiza-
tional and management structure of these corporations, resulting in some
degree of financial, organizational and operational restructuring.



-ll-
(ii) Detailed Features:
3.05    Project Component - Investment Credit.  Funds under the line of
credit would be made available to public seed corporations and private seed
companies for a range of appropriate investments including farm development
for breeder and foundation seed-and associated processing plants, certified
seei processing plants and seed storage. In a typical case, expenditures
would include civil works associated with farm development (provision of
irrigation facilities, drainage, etc.); farm, processing plant and storage
buildings; and, equipment as needed for seed harvesting, cleaning, storing,
bagging, etc. and vehicles. A detailed indicative list of civil works,
equipment and vehicles purchase expenditures envisaged in the public sector
corporations are given in the printed Project Files B. These investments are
based on the demand projections listed in Annex IV. 1/ Investments to be
financed would also include start up working capital requirements.  Private
companies could also include proposals for R&D activities connected with
development of new varieties. The sub-loan eligibility criteria are dis-
cussed in detail in para. 4.07.
3.06    Under the project, investment for the development of existing DOA
farms for breeder/foundation seed production (which would include the con-
struction of farm buildings, provision of irrigation and drainage facilities
and purchase of harvesting equipment and vehicles) would be limited to those
farms transferred to the SSCs. SSCs would select farms taking into account
not only agroclimatic considerations but also commercial aspects such as the.
scale of operation, siting of facilities and minimal development costs.
3.07    Project Component - Productive Support.  These funds would be used
for the following:
(a) Variety Development: Funds would be available to ICAR to help improve
the management of the public sector variety development activities by
increasing the mobility of the Coordinators and PIs of the AICCIPs
through enhanced provision for travel allowances and purchase of equip-
ment and vehicles. A small Coordinators Management Group (CMC) con-
sisting of the Coordinator and Ple would be set up for the major crops.
This would meet twice a year and would have a series of multidiscipli-
nary sub groups reporting back from regular visits to research loca-
tions to ensure that ongoing variety development is working within the
stated objectives. A representative model of the costs involved in
improving the mobility of the Coordinator and the CMG are shown in
Annex V, Table 2. Also shown in this table is a list of equipment
necessary to further enhance the management of plant breeding
1/  The anticipated seed processing infrastructure and ancillary invest-
ments envisaged for seed corporations are based on an estimate of demand
for certified seed produced by these corporations of 330,000 UT in
1994/95 (Annex IV) up nearly 402 in total on 1986 sales of certified se4
of around 240,000 NT (para. 5.01).



-12-
programs. 1/ Project funds would also finance a review by consultants
of the current system of variety trials, evaluation of trial results
and preparation of recommendations on notification and release of new
varieties. The consultants would be expected to report on the
efficiency and effectiveness of the existing arrangements. It is
anticipated that this review would require four man-months of consult-
ant services. The draft terms of reference for these consultants are
given in Annex VII.
(b) Breeder and Foundation Seed Production by SAUs. Although it is
envisaged that the commercial responsibility for breeder and foundation
seed production would be gradually transferred from the SAUs to the
seed corporations/companies during the life of the project (para.
4.04), limited investments associated with breeder and foundation seed
production in the SAUs would be funded under the project, as necessary,
and as a transitionary measure. In a typical case, this would involve
the provision of farm and storage buildings, irrigation and drainage
facilities, harvesting machinery and vehicles. A summary of indicative
expenditures is provided in Annex V, Table 3 and more detailed features
are listed in the printed Project Files B. Funds for this investment
would come from ICAR to the SAU on a grant basis following normal ICAR
procedures. It is expected that any new processing facilities required
for breeder/foundation seed would be built by seed corporations/
companies, funded by loans from P8s. SAUs would act as contract
growers for seed corporations/companies who would take delivery of raw
seed for processing in their own plants.
Cc) Seed Industry Regulation and Quality Control. Project funds would be
made available to states to strengthen Seed Certification Agencies
(SCAs) to enable them to deal with the expanded workload expected
during the project period. A summary of anticipated investments for
each SCA are listed in Annex V, Table 4, vith more detailed information
being provided in the printed Project Files B. These include
laboratory buildings and equipment (for in-house quality control),
vehicles, and in some cases, farm development and equipment to
facilitate grow-out testing, an important aspect which was widely
neglected in the past. Assistance would also be given to STLs operated
in each state by DOAs, with project funds being made available to
enhance the laboratory equipment and facilities at 24 of the 70
notified STLs in the country. A model of the equipment required by
each 8TL is given in Annex V, Table 5. In addition, the project would
support the establishment of a new CSTL at New Delhi, to replace the
temporary facilities currently utilized at IARI. The costs involved in
establishing the CSTL are shown in Annex V, Table 6.
(d) Seed Cleaning on Farmers' Fields. To complement the effort of the
extension service to promote informal on-farm seed multiplication the
project would supply three small seed cleaning plants (1 MT per hour
capacity) to each state participating !n the project, to be installed
1/ A list of the various institutions expected to receive funds under the
proJect is given in Annex VT.



-13-
in existing buildings on DOA district farms. The DOA would as a promo-
tional exercise, provide a free seed cleaning and treatment service to
local farmers (costs involved are given in Annex V, Table 7).
(e) Institutional Strengthening. Institutional strengthening of the public
sector corporations would be a major aim of the proposed project.
There will be two tiers of consultants financed out of funds under the
project whose input would contribute significantly to achieving this
aim. Firstly, the PMU would be assisted by a Principal Consultant
(PC)* a firm of experienced management consultants with a strong finan-
cial background (para. 4.02). Secondly, each individual corporation
expecting to participate in the project would have its financial and
organizational structure and its operating procedures reviewed by a
firm of management consultants (para. 4.05). It is envisaged that
project funds would finance about 16.5 man-months of consultant serv-
ices for the PC and about 150 man-months in total for the reviews of
individual corporations. In addition, project funds would finance
study tours covering critical aspects of seed production, processing
and marketing for selected managers from NSC, SFCI, SSCs and from ths
private seed companies. An estimated 50 participants (3 from each
corporation and the balance from the private seed companies) would form
about 8 study groups covering Europe, the United States, Australia/New
Zealand and Japan/Korea. Cost details are given in Annex V, Table 8.
3.08    Program Component.  The evolution of a farmer responsive seed
industry requires some key institutional and management reforms mainly
related to the financial and management structure and operating procedures of
public sector seed corporations. The program component would support GOI s
efforts to bring about these necessary adjustments which would contribute in
a small but important way to achieving the general GOI policy objective of
increased efficiency in the operations of public sector commercial
undertakings.
3.09    Preliminary examinations of prospective participating corporations
indicate that any action aimed at institutionally strengthening these agen-
cies would have to focus on protlems ranging from autonomy in pricing and
production decisions, inadequate management information systems and operating
procedures through to over staffing, over capitalization, and inappropriate
financial structuring. The latter problems, if they are to be properly
addressed may require disposal of assets such as excess processing plants,
restructuring or writing off of corporation's loans, and possible staff
reductions. The nature of the problems are such that it would require sig-
nificant measure by GOI/GOSs to implement the reforms necessary. The disbur-
sement of the program component would be linked, first to commitment to
action from both GOI and the GOSs and, second to progress made in implement-
ing the agreed action plans. The latter would require GOI/0O8s to agree to
and assist in the implementation of the action plans of their respective
corporations, and also to allow NSC/SFCI/SSCs to exercise autonomy in
pricing, production and management decisions. Corporations would also be
expected over a period of time to significantly phase out dependence on
government financial support.
3.10    The program component would finance imports of primarily agricultural
inputs (including pesticides), veterinary medicines, animal feed, petroleum



-14-
and petroleum products. The petroleum and petroleum product imports would be
destined for end-use in the agricultural sector. Diesel consumption by
tractors and pumpasts currently average about 4 million tonnes annually
(approximate import value of about US$700 million), and is expected to
increase by about US$ 2-3X annually. India's diesel requirements are to be
either imported directly or refined from imported petroleum. Conditions for
disbursement of the program component are discussed in para. 3.18.
B. Project Costs
3.11    Total project costs (as shown in Table 3.1) including the program
component and physical and price contingencies amounts to Rs 2,396 million
(US$177.5 million). The total project component costs amounts to Rs 911
million (US$67.5 million). 1/ The foreign exchange component of project
component cost is estimated at Rs 64 million (US$4.7 million) or 7X.
Estimated duties and taxes amount to Rs 19 million (US$1.4 million), Project
costs are based on mid-1988 prices and are derived from data collected from
participating agencies. Appropriate physical contingenc;es have been applied
to these costs. Price contingencies are based on projected annual inflation
rates for local costs of 8X through 1988/89, 71 in 1989/90 and 61 through
1994/95; and for foreign costs of 5.6% in 1988/89, 5.4% in 1989/90 and 1%
through 1994/95.
1/ A more detailed breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 5,
Table 1.



-15-
Table 3.1s PROJECT COSTS
-----t  4Million -------  -   -US4 Million-----  Z Foreig
Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchan&e
A. Investment Credit                 501.2      37.9    539.1   37.1       21    39.9        7
B. Productive Support
Variety Development (ICAR)
Management of Programs       48.0       2.5      50.5    3.6       0.2    3.8       S
Consultancy Services          0.2       2.6       2.8     -        0.1    0.1    100
Breeder and Foundation
Seed Production (SAUs)       13.3       1.2      14.5    1.0       0.1    1.1       8
Regusation and Quality
Control
Seed Certification (SCAs)   30.6        4.2      34.8    2.3       0.3    2.6      12
Seed Testing (STLs & CSTL)  18.5        1.9      20.4    1.4       0.2    1.6      14
Seed Cleaniug on Farmers'
Fields (DOA)                  2.9       0.2       3.1    0.2        -     0.2       -
Institutional Strengthening
Consultancy Services and    10.3        3.6      13.9    0.7       0.3    1.0      27
Training
Subtotal                  123.8      16.2    140.0    9.2        1.2   10.4      11
Total Baseline Costs          625.0      54.1    679.1   46.3        4.0   50.3       8
Physical Contingencies       44.0       2.9      46.9    3.3       0.2    3.5       5
Price Contingencies         178.3       6.7    185.0   13.2        0.5   13.7       3
Total Project Component           847.3     63.7    911.0   62.8        4.7   67.5       7
C. Program Component                  -     1,485.0  1,485.0    -        110.0  110.0    100
Total Project Costs               847.3  1,548.7  2.396.0   62.8    114.7  177.5        65
=tl=  .m 1   uin            :3i    ====_   S          _
C. Financing
3.12    The project would be financed by a proposed IDA credit of US$150
million (Rs 2,025 million equivalent). The Credit would finance US$40 mil-
lion of project component costs and the balance of US$110 million would be
made available under the program component. IDA financing of the project
component cost would be equal to about 59Z, with the remainder finaneed by
other project participants as shown in Table 3.2 below.



-16-
Table 3.2: PROPOSED FIIANCING PLAN
(Project Component)
Sub-     Participating          State
Borrowers       Banks       GOI  Covts   IDA  /s  Total
R----------------- Rs million ----------------   -----
A. Investment Credit                 223.0       100.0           -     -     405.0    728.0
B. Productive Support
1. Variety Development
(ICAR)
Management of Programs        -            -            19.8    -       46.2      66.0
Consultancy Services          -            -              -      -       3.8       3.8
2. Breeder and Foundation
Seed Production (SAUs)             -                   5.8    -       13.5      19.3
3. Regulation and Quality
Control
Seed Certification
Agencies (SCAs)             -            _              _    13.6    31.6       45.2
State Seed Testing Lab                                    -      5.9    13.7      19.6
(STLs)
Central Seed Testing          -            -             2.2    -        5.1       7.3
Lab (CSTL)
4. Seed Cleaning on Farmers'
Fields (DOA)                                           1.3    -        3.1       4.4
5. institutional
Strengthening
Consultancy Services
and Training                              -         -   -     -       17.4      17.4
Subtotal Productive Support      -             _           29.1   19.5   134.4    183.0
Total Project Component           223.0      100.0         29.1   19.5   539.4    911.0
/a  IDA would disburse 100l   against NABARD's refinancing of PB loans
to sub-borrowers
3.13    Pinacing Terms.  The IDA credit would be to 001 (who would bear the
foreign exchange risk) on standard terms. 1/ Funds under the investment
credit, would be onlent by 001 to NABARD under a subsidiary loan agreement on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA including a minimum interest rate of
71 per annum (not of a reduction of 0.25% for prompt repayment) with the
principal to be repaid in a lump sum in 15 years. These terms are consistent
with those specified in the Bank financed NABARD Credit Project (Loan No.
1/ Repayable in 35 years with repayments at 2.51 per year from the
eleventh to the twentieth year and at 5 per year thereafter.



-17-
2653). The terms and conditions will be subject to periodic review in line
with 001 policy, with any changes being agreed to between GOI and IDA.
3.14    NABARD would refinance 801 of sub-loans made by eligible PBs at an
interest rate of 81 per annum, with repayment over a maximum of 15 years,
including a maximum 3 years grace period for principal and interest and to be
specified in the subsidiary Loan Agreement. The PBs would finance both
private and public sector sub-borrowers up to a maximum of 80X of investment
costs of properly appraised and approved sub-projects at an interest rate of
12 1/21 per annum. The investment costs would include the start-up working
capital requirements arising out of the proposed investment. These sub-loans
would also carry a maximum of 3 years moratorium on principal and interest
and would be repayable within a maximum period of 15 years. The determina-
tion of the security necessary for the sub-loans would be at the discretion
of the PB and NABARD, but arrangements would be made for securing the loans
on terms satisfactory to IDA.
3.15   GOI would finance expenditures related to variety development, breeder
and foundation seed production by SAUs, CSTL, seed cleaning on farmers'
fields and the institutional development consultancy services and training.
OS would finance expenditures related to SCAs and STLs.
D. Disbursements
3.16    For the project component, IDA would reimburse GOI for the following:
(a)  1001 of NABARD refinancing to eligible PBe for investment credit
(Rs 404.0 million, US$ 29.9 million);
(b)  100% foreign expenditures and 100l   of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) or 701 of other local expenditures for goods, and 70Z of local
expenditures for works related to the management of programs under
the variety development component, breeder and foundation seed
production, industry regulation and quality control (Rs 110.1
million, US$8.2 million);
(c)  1001 of foreign expenditures and 701 of local expenditures related to
the seed cleaning on farmers' fields component (Rs 4.4 million, US$
0.3 million); and
(d)  1001 of consultancy services for the variety development and for the
institutional strengthening component and, also for training (Rs 20.2
million, US$1.6 million).
3.17    Disbursements of project component funds would be made on the basis
of certified Statements of Ezpenditures (SOBs). Supporting documentation for
SONs would be retained by the lending PBs and NABARD for the investment
credit, and by the participating agencies or PMU for all other components,
and be made available for inspection by the auditors and by IDA supervision
missions.
3.18    The Program component, would become available for disbursement in
three stages: (i) the first of US$40 million on: (a) appointment of the PC
to the PMU; and (b) commencement of consultant reviews of at least three 8SCe



-18-
and NSC (para. 4.05); (ii) the second of US$35 million approximately eighteen
months after the first on (a) completion of consultant reviews of NSC and at
least 3 SSCs and implementation in a manner satisfactory to IDA of resultant
action plans; and (b) commencement of consultant reviews of at least 5 addi-
tional SSCs; and (iii) the third of US$35 million approximately eighteen
montEs after tne second on tiaTiompletion of consultant reviews of the 5 SSCs
referred to in (ii)(b) above and satisfactory progress in the implementation
of the action plans of all the corporations which have completed the consult-
ant reviews; and (b) commentoment of consultant reviews of all remaining
participating corporations. The performance criteria on how progress in
implementing the action plans will be measured is described in Annex XI and
summarized in para. 4.10.
3.19    Disbursements of the program component funds would be against
documentation prepared by the purchaser and/or the PB financing the
transaction, based on SOEs for contracts valued at less than US$1 million;
for contracts valued above this amount, full documentation would be provided.
Applications for withdrawals based on SOEs wuuld be submitted in amounts of
not less than US$1 million and supporting documentation would be retained.
3.20    The proposed IDA Credit is expected to be committed over 6 1/2 years
and disbursed over 7 years. The expected project completion date is December
31, 1994. This disbursement period compares with that for NSPII, which after
a delay of two years to become effective, was completed in six years.
Disbursements are expected to require up to 7 years as a result of the strin-
gent eligibility criteria relating to sub-loan approval under the project,
which emphasizes that investments are not made until it can be demonstrated
that these are commercially justified. A schedule of estimated disbursements
is at Annex VIII and is consistent with the disbursement profiles for
agricultural projects in India.
E. Retroactive Financing and Special Account
3.21    IDA would retroactively finance project component expenditures
incurred before credit effectiveness, up to a limit of US$3 million provided
that these expenditures were contracted after September 1, 1987, following
the required sub-loan eligibility and procurement procedures and guidelines.
These expenditures would include civil works, purchase of equipment,
vehicles, etc., related to seed multiplication, storage and quality control.
In order to facilitate timely payments of project costs, a Special Account
amounting to US$3 million would be established in the Reserve Bank of India.
The borrower would claim reimbursements of IDA's share of expenditures under
the project component of the Credit from the Special Account upon presenta-
tion of valid SOE documentation which in turn, would be forwarded to IDA.
Replenishments to the special Account would be made quarterly or when the
Account is drawn down by about 50s of its initial deposit, whichever occurs
first.
P. Procurement
3.22    Procurement arrangements for the project component are summarized in
Table 3.3. Individual contracts estimated to cost less than US$ S million
each under the investment credit component (US$53.9 million) would be
procured following established commercial practices of the sub-borrowers.



-19-
Individual contracts above US$5 million, if any, would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Under the productive support
components, individual contracts for civil works and farm development (US$2.4
million), machinery and equipment (US$6.5 million) and vehicles (US$2.0
million) would be individually small for widely dispersed institutions and
spread over time. Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract
and works under the productive support components would be procured through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with GOI and GOS procedures
which have been adjudged satisfactory to the IDA. For individually small
items of equipment or materials that cannot conveniently be packaged under
LCB in amount exceeding US$15,000, local prudent shopping procedures satis-
factory to IDA would be used (total expenditures to be under $1 million).
Consultancy services of about 170 man-months would be engaged in accordance
with IMA guidelines. All bidding documents and analyzes would be retained by
the participating institution for possible inspection during IDA supervision
missions. The above procurement arrangements cover the entire project com-
ponent of the Credit and would apply irrespective of the funding sources
involved.
3.23    Procurement under the program component would be through ICB but with
the following major exceptions: (i) subject to the prior approval of IDA,
procurement of commonly traded commodities may be undertaken through
organized international commodity markets or other channels of compe;itive
procurement acceptable to IDA in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IDA: and (ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $5 million each
may be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchasers of such goods acceptable to IDA. Both private and public sector
imports would be eligible for financing.



-20-
Table 3.3s PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT COMPONENT
US$ Million
LCB        Other      Total
Expenditures under Investment               -          53.9        53.9
Credit                                              (29.9)      (29.9)
Productive Support
Civil Works and Farm Development         2.0          0.4         2.4
(1.3)       (0.3)       (1.6)
Machinery and Equipment                  5.6          0.9         6.5
(4.0)       (0.6)       (4.6)
Vehicles                                 2.0                      2.0
(1.4)                   (1.4)
Consultancy Services                                  0.8        0.8
(0.8)      (0.8)
Training                                              0.7        0.7
(0.7)      (0.7)
Total Expenses and Office Support                       1.2         1.2
Services                                             (1.0)       (1.0)
9.6       57.9         67.5
(6.7)     (33.3)       (40.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed
by IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
4.01    The project would be implemented under the overall direction of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be
established for this purpose by strengthening the existing Seeds Division
cell in the MOA. The PMU would have a number of functions, mainly related to
coordinating, monitoring and reporting of project implementation. These
functions are: (i) promoting the project; (ii) reviewing sub-project
proposals for the productive support components; (iii) processing disburse-
ment requests to GOI for the productive support components; (iv) reporting on
implementation progress; and (v) engaging and managing the work of the PC
(para. 3.07(e)) with particular reference to the selection and work of the
consultants (to be engaged also by the PMU) who would review individual
corporations. The investment credit component would be managed by NABARD
with disbursement claims being transmittad directly to GOI for reimbursement.
NASARD would provide necessary information to the PMU to facilitate recording
of project implementation. A committee chaired by a senior offi-;er of MOA
and made up of one representative from each of the participating states and
two private sector representatives nominated by the SAI would be set up and
would meet as required (but at least twice per year) to monitor and review
project implementation progress.



-21-
4.02    The Principal Consultant (PC) to be appointed will be a firm of
experienced management consultants, with a strong financial background.
Detailed qualifications and terms of reference for the PC are given in Annex
IX. The PC's functions are summarized as follows: (i) prepare short list of
qualified consultants 1/ from which NSC/SFCI/SSC can choose the firm to
undertake the review of their operation; (ii) finalize TORs for the
consultant's review and advise NSC/SFCI/SSCs on contractual arrangements and
work schedules; (iii) monitor implementation of the assignments; (iv) review
the reports and recommendations of the consultants and advise on the develop-
ment of a workable action plan; and, (v) monitor the implementation of the
agreed action plans.
4.03    Responsibility for implementation of the variety development com-
ponent would rest with ICAR using the Project Funding Committee (PFC) 2/
constituted under NARP by ICALk.  Each institution associated with AICCIP
which requires support would need to submit a proposal to the PFC. The PFC
would undertake to do the following: (i) promote this component of the
project to eligible ICAR institutes; (ii) appraise sub-project proposals;
(iii) advise on, and supervise procurement of equipment; and (iv) monitor
sub-project implementation and produce a six-monthly progress report for the
PMU. ICAR would also have the responsibility for coordinating the invest-
ments to be incurred by the SAUs for foundation and breeder seed production
once these proposals have been sanctioned by the PMU (para. 4.04).
4.04    The PMU would review the proposals submitted under the other produc-
tive support components. Investments proposed by the SAUs for breeder and
foundation seed production would take into account a phased program to trans-
fer commercial control of these seed multiplication activities to the respec-
tive SSC. SAUs would also have to demonstrate that there is a long-term
demand for the seed planned to be grown and that at least operational cost
recovery would be possible. Investments proposed by SCAs would take into
account the proposed expansion in certified seed production by the respective
SSC. The MOA would undertake the responsibility for implementing the STL and
CSTL subcomponents. The MOA would select the STLs to be strengthened and
establish those STLs with the greatest priority recommending deviations from
the model shown in Annex V, Table 5 as circumstances dictate.
4.05    Private sector seed companies would become eligible to borrow under
the investment credit on satisfying the normal sub-loan appraisal criteria of
the financing PB, including those listed in para. 4.07. Unlike in NSP I,
investment proposals from private seed companies would not be subject to
review and clearance by any public sector agency before being submitted to a
PB for financing. Investment credit to NSCs, SFCI and participating SSCs
would be subject to these corporations engaging suitable consultants to
1/ Detailed qualifications and terms of reference for these consultants
are given in Anne X.
2/ The PVC is chaired by the Director General of ICAR and has as memberst
the Agricultural Commissioner of GOI, representatives from the Planning
Commission, two SAU vice chancellors and the MARP Froject Administrator.



-22-
review their financial and management structure and operating procedures.
The review would focus on commercial aspects such as the achievement of
financial self sustainability and organizational aspects such as improved
management practices. Based on the above reviews, suitable action plans to
implement remedial programs would be drawn up and agreed to by the
SSCs/NSC/SFCI and GOSs/GOI and recorded in an Action Plan Implementation
Agreement (APIA) satisfactory to IDA.
4.06    While the action plans would be specific to each individual
corporation, it is envisaged that a representative action plan (Annex XI)
would address the following: (i) financial restructuring of corporations if
required-- this would involve making up any short-tall in issued and sub-
scribed capital, and converting short and long-term debt into equity in order
to restore financial viability; (ii) requisite operational autonomy; (iii)
adjustment in staffing levels, if required; and (iv) reduced dependence on
Government financial support.
B. Lending Procedures
4.07    (i)  Investment Credit.  PBs meeting NABARD's eligibility criteria as
specified under the NABARD Credit Project (Loan No. 2656) where applicable,
would make sub-loans to NSC, SFCI, SSCs and private sector seed companies,
based on an appraisal of the proposed sub-projects in accordance with their
normal procedures, and including the following:
(a) The PBs would apply as their primary criterion the yardstick that
the borrowing institution is financially viable and would be able
to earn profits sufficient to provide a projected financial rate
of return on its equity equal to not less than 12X after taking
into account any proposed new investments under the project. In
addition the borrowing entity's projected cash flow would have to
enable it to service and repay its indebtedness in a timely
manner. An important prerequisite would be to ensure that arran-
gements are in place for the provision of adequate and timely
working capital, taking into consideration the unusually high
seasonal need for working capital requirements in the industry.
Before the sub-loan is made, the sub-borrower would present
up-to-date and adequate audited financial statements, and enter
into a commitment to thereafter provide annually, audited
accounts to the commercial banks and NABARD no later than six
months after each financial year end. Also, the accounts and
projections would show that, after taking into account the
proposed investment, the sub-borrower would not have a
debt/equity ratio more adverse than 70/30.
(b) The PBs should ensure that the potential borrower can demonstrate
through an adequate marketing plan that the estimated
demand/market for seeds is sufficient to support the available
processing capacity in the state, including that to be created by
the proposed investment. Also, the borrowing institut:ion would
demonstrate that it has the ability to obtain the selling prices
necessary to make it a viable operation.



-23-
(c) The PBs should be satisfied that the civil works, machinery and
equipment expected to be purchased are technically suitable, and
the estimated cost is competitively determined in accordance with
the procurement guidelines (para. 3.22). Where the PBs do not
have the technical knowledge to evaluate the project, they would
engage suitable technical consultants at their discretion. These
consultants engaged at a cost to the sub-borrower would be from
NSC or any other public (SSC) or private sector organization.
(d) The PBs should ensure that an adequate system of internal control
and accounting is in place in the borrowing institution with
sufficient trained staff to properly manage the various
functions. The PBs should note that borrowing public sector
corporations would only be eligible for subsequent sub-loans
under the project after they have made satisfactory progress in
implementing the action plan agreed based on recommendations
arising from the consultants review (para. 4.10).
To facilitate satisfactory establishment of appraisal procedures, the first 3
SSC, and the initial NSC and SFCI sub-project appraisals conducted by the
relevant PBs would be submitted to IDA for review.
4.08    (ii) Productive Support Funds.  Participating agencies would be
required to prepare annually a plan/budget for theiz program of expenditures
under the project. This program would be submitted to the PMU and to IDA
by the commencement of each year to provide sufficient time for necessary
review.  Expenditures when incurred, would be summarized in an SOE within the
categories agreed, showing total expenses planned under the project, total
amount reimbursable by GOI and the amount reimbursed, and the amount reimbur-
sable as of that date. This SOE would be certified as to its accuracy by
designated senior official of the agency and the chief accounting official.
The certified SOE would be forwarded expeditiously to GOI through PHU for
direct disbursement to the participating agency concerned.
4.09    The PMU would directly manage and process payments for the institu-
tional strengthening consultancy services, both for the PC and for the con-
sultants to the Corporations. Paymants for these services would also be
based on SOEs submitted by the PMU to GOI for direct disbursements to the
consultants concerned.
4.10    (iii)  Program Component.  The disbursement conditions and arrange-
ments for the program component were detailed in paras. 3.18 and 3.19. A key
factor triggering the release of the 2nd and 3rd disbursement of the program
component would be the progress made in implementing the APIA drawn up fol-
lowing the consultant's review. Annex XI lists the criteria by which
implementation progress would be evaluated. The critical features of a
representative APIA would include the following actions to be completed in a
designated time period which would be specified in the respective APIA:
(a) Financial Restructuring - completion of the envisaged financial
restructuring of the corporation, if required;



-24-
(b) Requisite Operational Autonomy - in the management of the
corporation, particularly related to production and pricing
decisions;
(c) Reduced Dependence on Government Financial Support - phased
removal of financial support (except for equity support and for
undertaking specific government sponsored schemes) extended by
GOSs/GOI to the corporation; and
(d) Adjustment in Staffing Levels - reduction in the staff levels in
the corporation if staffing levels are found to be excessive.
C. Project Reporting
4.11    The PMU would maintain records of the project's progress showing the
total costs programmed by appropriate categories, accumulated costs to date,
and financing by the project participants. This information would be
obtained from periodic reports from NABARD. Details of other component
expenditures and financing would be available from SOB summaries processed by
the PW .  Details on physical progress achieved and progress on implementing
the institutional development action plans would be incorporated in regular
reports to PMU from the project participants. The above information would be
summarized to provide bi-annual progress reports to IDA. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that such reports would be submitted within 90
days of the end of each semester.
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.12    The project accounting records maintained by the PMU (para. 4.11)
would incorporate a summary of sub-project accounting carried out at the
level of the project participating agencies. Sub-borrowers of investment
credit funds would be required to prepare their accounts to enable the
separate identification of project funds and its use, and would be required
to submit annual accounts to the PBs and NABARD within six months of the end
of each financial year, audited by independent and qualified auditors accept-
able to the PBs concerned, NABARD and IDA. Project participants under the
productive support component (such as SAUIs, STLs, CSTL, ICAR and DOAs) would
be required to maintain separate project accounts showing total expenses
programmed by sub-component, total expended to date, and financing by GOI and
GOSs. These accounts would be audited by the respective Accountants General
and would be submitted to the PMU no later than nine months after the end of
each financial year end.
4.13    The Special Account maintained by the Reserve Bank of India (para.
3.21) would also be audited annually by independent qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA, using sound auditing principles consistently applied, and
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each
financial year.



-25-
V. DSMAND, MARKETING AND PCING
5.01    It is envisaged that NSP III would be implemented in an increasingly
competitive operating environment in which the NSC and the SSCs would become
more farmer-demand responsive in planning investment proposals and seed
production programs. The evolution of such an operating environment is
reflected in the anticipated demand for seed produced by the public sector
corporations as shown in Annex IV. The relatively larger demand increases
over the 6 1/2 year project period as a whole are expected in hybrid cereals
(23%), pulses (921) and oilseeds (92%) in keepi-ag with emerging trends in
Indian agriculture, and concurrently, only limited demand increases are
expected in the traditional self-pollinated cereals, particularly wheat
(10Z). The expected demand patterns are consistent with the concept of seed
multiplication and distribution promoted under the project, which expects
most of the seeds of self-pollinated varieties to be either retained by the
farmers themselves or transferred between farmers. The SSCs/NSC role in this
process would be to disseminate seeds of new improved varieties of self-
pollinated varieties as they become available and provide small quantities of
seed to be planted in seed plots as this practice becomes more prevalent with
the necessary encouragement from the extension services. With regard to
hybrids, it is expected that with growing commercial orientation and market
responsiveness, the SSCs/NSC would move into increasing their market share of
these varieties, competing effectively with the private sector in areas where
the corporations have a comparative advantage.
5.02    It is anticipated that the SSCs/NSC if operating on a commercial
basis, would not face problems marketing the seed produced. The demand
estimates for self-pollinated varieties, (particularly cereals) are
conservative, and the estimates for hybrids are justified by the recent
trends in increased demand, particularly for hybrid cereals. In addition, it
is GOI's policy to increase the area under oilseeds and the productivity of
these holdings; hence, the demand estimates for the major oilseeds also
reflect recent trends. It is also expected that the SSCs/NSC would introduce
increasingly sophisticated marketing arrangements though continuing to use
their established dealerships and cooperatives as marketing channels. The
enhanced responsiveness to farmers' requirements would also lead to innova-
tions in packaging and delivery arrangements.
5.03    The price determination arrangements in place would be critical for
the commercial orientation and long-term financial sustainability of the NSC
and the SSCs as business entities. The project concept envisages that these
corporations would exercise their autonomous powers to limit costs and set
prices (paras. 3.09, 4.07(b) and 4.10(b)). Consequently, NSC/SSCs are
expected to adopt appropriate seed procurement and pricing arrangements in
order to achieve financial viability. Based on the demand patterns expected
to evolve as the project is being implemented, the anticipated price struc-
ture would allow N8C and a representative S8C to make reasonable profits.



-26-
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Situation of Participating Institutions
6.01    NABARD has a present equity of around Rs 4,000 million.  It refinan-
ces credit to approved financial institutions for economically and techni-
cally sound agricultural investments. The PBs which would be allowed to
participate under the project are also expected to be financially strong and
would meet NABARD's eligibility criteria where applicable with respect to
loan recoveries (para. 4.07).
6.02    Many of the public sector corporations expecting to participate in
the project are generally experiencing losses or, at best, only earning
marginal profits. This adverse financial situation faced by many corpora-
tions are largely due to factors related to inadequate management practices
and a sub-optimum operating environment. For example, seed replacement rates
were frequently over estimated leading to excess seed procurement which
resulted in excess inventory levels, with consequent high financial carrying
costs, physical loss from spoilage and handling and in extreme cases sales at
the reduced price of grain. In addition, corporations have found it dif-
ficult to obtain margins required particularly on the higher value crops to
earn a satisfactory profit due to increasing pressure to keep seed prices low
and, on the other hand to increase procurement prices paid to seed growers.
Corporations have also faced rising operating costs resulting from increases
in staffing levels due to inadequate planning of requirements and over
optimistic assumptions of the future production levels. A major focus of the
proposed project is to strengthen these corporations, restoring financial
viability and long-term sustainability. Demonstration of financial viability
is the paramount criterion for a corporation to beceme eligible to borrow
funds under the investment credit. There is also a need to focus on evolving
an efficient pricing system for certified seeds, keeping in view the growing
need for good quality seeds to sustain the enhanced food production targets
aimed at meeting the rising consumption needs of a growing population.
Consequently, these foci are reflected in the project's emphasis on the
consultant reviews, drawing up of action plans and, provision of the finan-
cial leverage through the program component to provide sufficient incentive
to bring about the necessary adjustments.
6.03    Public sector seed corporations also require considerable institu-
tional strengthening if they are to operate as commercially viable
organizations. For examplet while there is some planning for physical
achievements, this is not integrated into any corporate planning to assess
the financial effect of any expansion projected; nor are there any estab-
lished procedures for budgetary or cost control. In addition, decisions on
capital expenditure are not properly evaluated for their financial impact
on the viability of the organization. Many of the corporations do not
prepare up-to-date financial statements and generally their audits are sig-
nificantly in arrears. Management of these corporations is also constrained
by the management information systems being poorly developed. It is expected
that key weaknesses will be identified during the consultants' review and
addressed during the implementation of the action plan.



-27-
B. Financial Projection of Representative Investment Models
6.04    Financial projections were drawn up for NSC and two representative
SSC models to demonstrate the viability of sub-project investments. Annex
XII Tables l(a) and l(b) are pro}ections of NBC's operations based on an
investment program as indicated in Annex V Table 1, and with the assumption
that excess inventories have been eliminated and staffing levels have been
reduced to normal levels. In addition, it is also assumed that N8C would
have the flexibility to determine prices in accordance with the market
trends. The projected financial return on equity increasing to 15 in
1992/93 (Annex XII, Table 1(b)) shows that NSC would be a viable organization
taking into account its proposed new investments, und.i¢taken with the requi-
site strengthening of management techniques and control over expenses are
undertaken. Annex XII Table 2(a) and 2(b) show a model of a new average
sized 8SC undertaking an investment, with an output mix of 75% self-
pollinated seeds and 25% hybrids based on similar assumptions as the NSC
model. This model shows that with the level of investment necessary for this
size of operation the SSC would earn a profit within three years from the
initial investment, sufficient to provide a financial return of 18% on its
equity in 1992/93 and would be able to service its indebtedness (Annex XII,
Table 2(b)). Annex XII, Table 3(a) and 3(b) show a model of an existing 88C
undertaking an expansion of processing capacity under the project based on
similar assumptions as before. Thi's model indicates that the SSC would show
a financial return of 24% on its equity by 1991/92. These models demonstrate
that after the necessary organizational and financial restructuring and with
operating and management procedures strengthened, public sector corporations
would be financially self-sustaining with the ability to maintain the value
of their equity. The private seed companies which have a higher percentage
of higher value crops in their mix of seeds processed would be more
profitable than the above models.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
7.01    The project's main impact will be on contributing significantly to
the development of a farmer oriented efficient seed industry with balanced
public and private sector participation. The major benefit of the project
would be the institutional development advances planned during the project
peziod to financially and organizationally restructure the public sector
corporations involved in the seed industry, and reorient their operations
along commercial lines. The corporations would exercise autonomy in pricing,
production and management decisions, and their dependence on government
financial support would be progressively phased out. This is expected to
lead to the creation of financially viable, self-sustaining institutions,
responsive to farmers' needs and hence capable of producing good quality
seed, a vital input in the agricultural production process, at relatively low
cost. It is also expected that private sector initiatives in the seed
industry would incresse as the general operating environment continues to
improve over the project period. The improved institutional and operating
industry framework expected to be created under the project would also allow
the benefits from the earlier investments under ISP I and NSP II to be more
fully realized.



-28-
7.02    With respect to the project's impact on agricultural production, the
major benefits would result from the incremental crop yields obtained by
farmers through the use of project produced quality seed. The production
benefits have only been quantified for the first year of usage by farmers of
seed produced by the public sector corporations under the project, using
conservative estimates of the yield impact of this seed. Benefits from
subsequent crops and farmer-to-farmer exchange of subsequent seed generations
produced from this seed would also be significant but have not been quan-
tified as project benefits. In addition the incremental production arising
from project produced seed by private companies are likely to be significant,
particularly as these would be mainly of the higher value crops.
7.03    At full development, the annual incremental value of crops of rice,
wheat, maize, jowar, bajra, gram, groundnut, soyabeans and mustard, calcu-
lated at international prices for commodities traded internationally and at
farmgate prices for those that are not, generated by the seed produced by the
public sector corporations under the project is estimated at US$45 million.
1/ Based on the above, an estimate of the Economic Rate of Return on invest-
ments undertaken by public sector agencies is 32%. The incremental volume of
seed of the above crops produced by the public sector corporations under the
project would be adequate to plant about 2.2 million hectares. Given the
average size of farm holdings in India of 2 ha, this means that about 1.1
million farm families would benefit directly from the project. These
estimates are conservative as they are based on the assumption that the
project produced seed is sown directly to a commercial crop. If however,
the seed plot concept is widely used the impact would be wider with a much
larger number of farmers using improved seeds. Details are given in
Annex XIII.  Consequently, it is also expected that the project would have a
particularly significant positive impact on smwll farmers, as the change in
the concept of seed distribution being promoted under the project will enable
farmers to buy seed in smaller quantities and as required to plant small
holdings. Hence, small farmers are expected to be significant users of
project produced seed.
B. Risks
7.04    The main risk is that there could be delays in taking the needed
steps to initiate the necessary financial and organizational restructuring of
the seed corporations. The program component has been designed and incor-
porated in order to support GOI efforts to bring about the requisite struc-
tural and institutional reforms in the states concerned. However, it is
likely that because of the considerable adjustments required on the part of
40Ss, delays could be expected in getting agreement on the action plans. In
recognition of this factor, the project implementation period has been
extended to 6 1/2 years. However, a longer project implementation period
could also be regarded as acceptable if it helped promote institutional
I/ In addition significant volumes of other pulses, oilseeds, potatoes,
vegetable, fodder and forage crops would also be produced from the cer-
tified seed produced by the seed corporations. These have not been
quantified.



-29-
adjustments to ensure the long term sustainability and viability of seed
corporations. The success of the project would also crucially depend on the
seed corporations ability to operate on commercial principles.   This risk is
minimized by the provision of funds to undertake consultant reviews which
would focus on issues such as management, marketing and good financial
accounting, which would help identify the weaknesses which need to be rec-
tified in order for these corporations to operate more efficiently.
Managerially, therefore the project would start from a much stronger base
than NSP I & II. The setting up of stringent sub-loan eligibility criteria
for these corporations would also ensure that only those investments which
are commercially justified are financed under the project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    Agreements were reached on the following:
(a) the proposed financing terms and for securing sub-loans made by PBs
to NSC, SFCI, SSCs and private seed companies on terms satisfactory
to IDA (paras. 3.13-3.15);
(b) the proposed arrangements for the release of the program component in
3 stages in recognition of certain actions being effected as
specified in para. 3.18;
(c) the arrangements for project management as specified in paras. 4.01
to 4.04.
(d) the selection and appointment of the PC to the PMU and the consult-
ants to review individual corporations along procedures satisfactory
to IDA (para. 4.02);
(e) the necessary steps to be taken by GOI and the GOSs to implement the
action plan to be prepared following the consultants' review and
agreed to and recorded in a APIA between GOI/GOSs and NSC/SFCI/SSCs
(para. 4.05);
(f) the eligibility criteria for sub-loans under the investment credit as
specified in para. 4.07. This would involve selection of participat-
ing PBs and the financial and other criteria to be met by the cor-
porations before becoming eligible to submit a proposal to the PBs
for financing and submission of the appraisals (by the relevant PBs)
of the first 3 SSC, and initial NSC and SFCI proposals for IDA review
(para. 4.07);
(g)  the key elements which must be a part of a representative action plan
and the criteria by which progress made by NSC/SSCs in implementing
the action plan (prepared following the consultant's review) is
evaluated as specified in paras. 4.06, 4.10 and Annex XI;
(h)  the reporting and auditing requirements under the project as
specified in paras. 4.11-4.13.



-30-
8.02    Retroactive financing up to a total of US$3 million will be made
available for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1987 providing IDA
procurement guidelines had been followed in incurring the expenditure.
8.03    With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$150 million equiialent to India on Standard IDA terms
with 35 years maturity.



-31-                              ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Industry Regulation
Introduction
1.      The basic regulatory structure as framed in the Seeds Act enacted in
1966 and the Seed Rules framed under this Act which was notified in 1968, is
adequate for effectively ensuring quality control of certified seed produc-
tion of notified varieties.
Legislative Framework
2.      The Seeds Act and the Seed Rules provide the basic legal underpinning
to the regulatory framework pertaining to the seed industry. Based on the
ezperience gained from the application of the various provisions of the Seeds
Act and the Rules, several amendments have been made from time to time (1972,
1913, 1974, and 1981). The Act provides for (a) compulsory quality control
of seed of any notified kind or variety; voluntary certification of seed of
any notified kind or variety; and (b) truthfully labelling of seed. The Act
specifies the functions of various regulatory bodies associated with the
industry as well as rules for notification of new varieties, specifications
of minimum limits of germination and purity, regulation of sale of seeds,
certification, labelling, etc.
3.      In 1983 a Seeds (Control) Order was issued under the Essential
Commodities Act of 1955. The Order requires seed dealers to obtain a license
valid for three years in order to operate, grants the Controller powers to
regulate the sale and distribution of seed and provides additional power to
seed inspectors. This Order is presently not operative pending adjudication
on its validity by the Supreme Court of India.
Regulatory Framework
4.      The Government of India has constituted a Central Seed Committee
(CSC) under the Seed Act to advise the Central Government and the State
Governments on matters arising from the administration of the Act.  The
comittee assisted by a sub-committee, advises the Central Government to
notify a variety in order to regulate quality control of that variety.
5.      Under the Seed Act, no person can carry on the business of selling
any notified kind or variety unless it meets with the minimum limits of
germination and purity standards laid down in the Manual known as "Indian
Minimum Seed Certification Standards" published by the CSC. The Act,
however, is not applicable to any seed of any notified variety grown by a



-32-                              ANNEX I
Page 2
person and sold or delivered by him on his own premises directly to another
person for that person's use for the purpose of sowing or planting.
6.      Seed certification is performed at the state level, and almost all
of the project states have established a SCA 1/ for this purpose. A CSCB has
also been established to advise the Central Government and the State
Government on all matters relating to certification to ensure interstate
uniformity of standards and procedures. The SCA provides a certificate to
any person who sells seed of any notified variety on request, provided stand-
ards are met.
7.      Overall quality control is also a state level responsibility and each
GOS has appointed qualified seed inspectors. These inspectors have the
authority to take samples of seed of any notified variety, and send such
samples for analysis to the seed analyst for the area, enter and search any
place in which they have reason to believe that an offense under the Seed Act
has been or is being committed, and exercise such other powers as necessary
for carrying out the purposes of the Act.
Plant Breeder Rights
S.      At present legislation does not exist in India which deals with plant
breeder rights. Nowcver, the absence of this protection does not appear to
constrain private initiative in research and development. The Seeds Act
allows the sale of truthfully labelled seed and farmers are progressively
becoming more selective in choosing the source of new seed, demanding
variety and brand names. Hence as long as labelled seed can be freely
marketed, and farmers continue to make their choice of selection of seed by
brand names, enacting legislation on plant variety rights would appear to be
unnecessary at this time, given the disadvantages of lengthy legislative
processes which establishing and implementing breeder rights would entail.
I/ In West Bengal the SCA is still attached to the DOA, but establishment
of an autonomous institution is under active consideration by COMB.



-33-                            ANNEX II
Page 1
INDrA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Experience with NSP I and II
1.     As implementation of the projects commenced it became apparent that
GOI and the states were reluctant to adhere to some of the fundamental prin-
ciples on which the concept and implementation arrangements of the projects
were based. A basic problem was N8Cs continued involvement in the production
of certified seeds The guidelines for NSP I and II specified that NSC should
cease producing certified seed and concentrate on the coordination of founda-
tiot seed production, and interstate production and marketing of certified
seed produced by SSCs. However, after transferring its existing processing
plants to SSCs as specified, NSC proceeded to build new plants (with non-
project funds) and continued certified seed production. In doing so, it
compromised its stipulated coordination role and dampened the enthusiasm of
the newer and smaller SICs to develop their own seed production programs and
to invest in new processing plants. NSC then used the poor initial perfor-
mance of the SCs as an argument to support its contention that it had a
necessary role in certified seed production. Whatever the merits of this
position, and it can now be argued with hindsight that there are legitimate
reasons for NSC to be involved in certified seed production and that the
existence of a centralized agency for coordination of production and market-
ing of certified seed was not conducive to the development of a market
responsive industry, the variation from project guidelines created uncer-
tainty amongst the newly formed SSCs and this had a significant adverse
impact on project implementation. The situation was further exacerbated by
delays in the provision of investment funds to the project agencies by the
commercial banks and slow staffing of senior posts both at the Center and in
state implementing agencies. Implementation progress improved during the
latter part of the project period, but neither of the projects was able to
gather enough momentum to make up for lost time, although a substantial part
of envisaged investments were ultimately completed by the extended
loan/credit closing dates.
2.      During the implementation of N8P I & II it became increasingly
apparent that the role assigned to the SAUs and the ICAR Institutes for the
production of breeder and foundation seed needed to be reconsidered. Breeder
seed was to be produced on SAU farms under close supervision of the breeder
of the variety. Indents for breeder seed from SSCs throughout India were
placed with a seed unit in ICAR in New Delhi which then allocated the produc-
tion programs between the various SAUs and Institutes. This highly central-
ized system often resulted in shortages of breeder seed, especially in the
early stages of the project. In the original NIP concept, the 8AUs were also
expected to price breeder seed at levels at which at least operational costs
could be recovered. In practice, this principle was not followed, and
breeder seed production is now essentially subsidized, with the operational



-34-                              ANNEX II
Page 2
costs of running these programs being financed out of the universities usual
recurrent budget. With regard to foundation seed, the SAUs were expected to
run these programs on their farms, along commercial lines, financing neces-
sary infrastructural investments (farm development, processing plants)
through loans from commercial banks. In reality as the projects progressed
it became apparent that the SAUs organizational framework and financial
management system was not structured to operate foundation seed programs on
commercial lines. Hence, many SAUs now show declining interest in these
activiti9a.
3.      As NSP I and II neared completion it also became apparent that the
heavy reliance of seed corporations (particularly those in northern India) on
the production of seed of self pollinated varieties, for which there was
limited demand, had resulted in many of these corporations facing marketing
problems, which led to serious financial and operational difficulties. This
problem was exacerbated by the fact that corporations had followed production
programs which were based on optimistic assumptions about seed replacement
rates. Consequently, these corporations are faced with the problem of carry-
ing and financing large seed stocks, which in some extreme cases were or may
have to be disposed of as grain. It is clear that excess seed processing
capacity does exist in some of these corporations. To survive in the future
these corporations will have to restructure their operations in order to
produce a more appropriate mix of certified seed in line with market
requirements.
4.      Another major shortcoming of NSP I in particular was the inability to
stimulate greater private sector involvement in the industry. Of the US$5
million line of credit made available in NSP I for private companies, only
about US$3 million was utilized. This was partly due to the general environ-
ment for strong private sector participation in the industry which was less
favorable in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The emergence of a dominant
public sector during the mid-seventies, and the evolution of an incentives
framework which was less than optimal (particular constraints included
limited access to breeder seed, and credit for working capital requirements)
tended to dampen private initiative. The private sector was therefore
unclear of the government's intentions and were reluctart to join a GOI
sponsored project. The situation has improved considerably by the fact that
the policy and operational environment for greater private initiative has
improved significantly of late. For example, breeder seed produced by public
programs is now readily available to the private sector. Hence, the oppor-
tunity now appears to be there for a strong impetus towards greater private
sector participation in the industry. The largest private seed company had
an annual turnover in 1986/87 comparable to NSC, the largest public sector
seed producer (turnover of around Re 300 million). One major private company
has a foreign shareholder, while a small number of other companies have
various forms of commercial linkages with foreign companies.



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Production Systems
Introduction
1.      Historical experience in the evolution of agricultural systems sug-
gests that where moisture is assured, availability of a distinctly new
improved variety .can serve as a catalyst to initiate the necessary changes in
other production factors, which together lead to a major upward shift in
agricultural production levels. On the other hand, in rainfed regions, only
slow and limited gains can usually be expected from varietal improvement if
no changes are made in other production conditions; and in unassured rainfed
conditions, change in production agronomy must precede or at least be concur-
rent with varietal development if production levels are to be improved. In
any of these situations however, multiplication and distribution of seeds
of new varieties, with good grain quality and, the ability to yield well in
specific agro-climatic conditions is a basic aspect of modern agricultural
development.
Multiplication of Seed
2.      In certified seed production programs in India, the  multiplication
chain begins with nucleus ;eed. This is then successively multiplied into
breeder, foundation and certified seed, with the latter being sown to produce
commercial crops. In all these multiplication stages, quality control is of
paramount importance, as it is essential that trueness to type of the variety
be maintained.
3.      Nucleus seed is the only stock from which rejuvenation of the variety
should be permitted, and then only under strict supervision. This imposes
limits on the number of plants to be used in a rejuvenation (nucleus seed)
plot. In this seed plot, all plants must be individually scrutinized several
times during growth by a technically competent person well familiar with the
varietyt to eliminate variants and maintain variety norms. For this reason,
plots of over 5,000 spaced plants place the genetic purity of all future
stocks of that variety at risk. The output from this plot has to supply both
the basic seed for the next rejuvenation plot, and seed to be multiplied to
the next stage (breeder seed). Therefore the multiplication of large quan-
tities of nucleus seed in one plot is highly risky and undesirable, and is
not permitted in any sensible seed multiplication system. In situations when
large quantities of breeder seed are required, there may need to be a stage
preceding the breeder seed, thereby increasing the number of stages in the
multiplication chain.
4.      There is also a need for flexibility in the assignment of respon-
sibility for the various multiplication stages. Maintenance of nucleus
stocks and/or breeder stocks need not be always be done by the originating



-36-                             ANNEX III
Page 2
breeder. lndeed, once a variety is released and its characteristics learned
by experience, a maintenance breeder whose main responsibilities are variety
maintenance, and who is likely to be in position for many years, is usually
the best person to more consistently maintain the purity of a number of
released varieties. This increased flexibility would be useful particularly
for those crops such as groundnut where the multiplication rate is low and
the number of multiplication stages (and thus the workload) have to be
increased in order to meet seed requirements.
5.      As the present, most breeder and foundation seed production in India
is the responsibility of SAUs and the ICAR institutes, although a significant
and growing share of production of the latter seed is now undertaken by the
public sector seed corporations, particularly the NSC, and SFCI. The private
sector also produces a significant share of their foundation seed
requirements. It is envisaged that as NSP III progresses the commercial
responsibility for both breeder 1/ and foundation seed production would shift
even more from SAUs and the ICAR institutes to the commercial seed producing
entities, i.e., the seed corporations and private firms.
6.      In India, certified seed can only be  produced from foundation seed
of notified varieties. The procedure for notifying a variety is laid down in
the Seeds Act of 1966. Certification is voluntary, although the sale of
seeds of notified variety (whether certified or not) is regulated under the
Seeds Act. No person can carry on the businiss of selling, keeping for sale,
offering to sell, bartering or otherwise supplying any seed of any notified
variety unless it is identifiable to its variety, conforms to the minimum
limits of germination and purity specified, and the container in which the
seed is packed is properly labelled.
Dissemination of Seed
7.      Once an improved variety is released, the objective is to quickly
multiply and disseminate quality seed of the new variety over as wide a
geographical area as possible. The time taken to saturate the target area
for which the particular variety has been released depends first upon the
popularity of the new variety with farmers, and then upon the seed replace-
ment rate adopted by farmers and the system of seed distribution.
8.      Seeds of hybrids should be replaced every year.  The technical and
logistical problems associated with hybrid seed production dictate that this
seed be purchased every year from seed companies. Current GOI policy is for
seed of non-hybrid varieties (i.e, self and cross-pollinated varieties) to be
1/ With regard to breeder seed production it is envisaged that initially
the SAUs will still continue to perform this role, though the commercial
responsibility for the breeder seed produced will rest with the seed
corporations.



-37.-                            ANNEX III
Page 3
replaced by farmers in 5-10 year intervals (depending on the crop), on the
basis that genetical/mechanical purity breakdown over the period would begin
to cause yield depression. In India today this is usually taken to mean that
sufficient certified seed should be produced to sow 10-20X of each crop if
this aim is to be achieved.  To illustrate with an example the ramifications
of such a policy, the seed replacement requirement for wheat in India on a
theoretical 20X replacement basis, would be as follows:
A.  Total Area                                  5  28 million ha
B.  Certified Seed Required to Sow (A)
(@ 100 kg/ha)                             *  0.56 million tons
C.  Area Required to Produce Seed (B)
(Q 2 tons/ha)                              =  0.28 million ha
D.  Foundation Seed Required to Sow (C)         =  280,000 tons
E.  Area Required to Produce Seed (D)           u  14,000 ha
F.  Breeder Seed Required to Sow (E)            *  1,400 tons
G.  Area Required to Produce Seed (F)           =  700 ha
H.  Nucleus Seed Required to Sow (C)            m  70 tons.
T.  Area required to Produce Seed (H)           -  35 ha
Given an average nucleus plot plant population of 300,000/ha. and plots not
exceeding 5,000 plants, more than 2,000 such nucleus seed plots would be
required to product this area of 35 ha. The problems of maintaining genetic
purity would be enormous given hat each and every plant has to be inspected a
number of times during its growth. This system, even if possible to put in
place, would be risky in terms of maintenance of quality, and extremely
expensive.
9.      The dual objectives of seed quality and quick area coverage could be
better achieved if the system of seed distribution is altered to make it more
flexible and responsive to farmers' requirements. Presently in most states
in India, farmers are encouraged by DOA to sow certified seed as part of the
"package of practices" promoted by the extension service, and seed is dis-
tributed in relatively large packages sufficient to replace the whole or a
major portion of a farmer's area under a particular crop. After sowing his
crop with this certified seed, the farmer is expected to keep sufficient
quantity of seed produced to cover the entire area in the following year,
with the rest of the produce being sold as commercial grain, eaten or in some
case sold as seed to fellow cultivators of the villages. He is expected to
maintain the same seed for four years and get fresh certified seed in the
fifth year. This seed distribution concept envisages a farmer sowing a
hectare of wheat to buy one quintal of wheat seed at a cost of about Rs 400,
which is a considerable investment for a small farmer. Consequently, it is
likely that farmers would delay replacing seed, and so extend the seed
replacement rate.
10.     The primary emphasis of any seed program should be on encouraging
farmers to use good quality seed-seed of knowr parentage, and with good



-38-                             ANNEX III
Page 4
germination and physical purity. However, this does not necessarily mean
using only certified seed. Instead, it is proposed that farmers use a small
amount of certified seed to sow a seed plot. Provided this plot is properly
rouged, and the seed harvested and threshed separately and stored properly,
this can provide sufficient good quality seed to sow the next year s commer-
cial crop. Under such a system, commercial planting seed would be only one
generation removed from certified seed, analogous to a 50% replacement rate
in a system where certified seed was used for commercial plantings. If the
focus shifts towards encouraging this concept of on-farm seed multiplication,
then the total quantity of certified seed of self-pollinated varieties needed
to support this approach would be much reduced. This would have a great
influence on seed production programs, as the ramifications work their way
back through the entire multiplication chain--the quantities of foundation,
breeder and nucleus seed needed will be much less and their quality can be
easily maintained and at lower cost. Also, a reduction in the quantity of
breeder and foundation seed required would allow the SAUs to devote more
resources and time to their main function of developing acceptable new
varieties.
11.     To promote such a system, the active involvement of the extension
service in each state is required. Farmers will need to be encouraged to
adopt this approach, and will need advice on the techniques of raising a seed
plot--roguing; separate harvesting/threshing/cleaning; seed treatment; and,
proper storage to minimize pest attack and maximize seed viability. In
addition, packaging of seed will need to be reviewed, especially the neces-
sity of having smaller volumes to complement the seed plot approach. The
individual techniques needed by farmers are already well known to SAUs and
DOAs and can easily be taught to extension workers in the existing monthly
training meetings/forthnightly workshops. The only extra effort possible
required is a state level to enunciate the concept of on-farm seed multi-
plication and storage to senior officers of DOAs from district level upwards,
and to ensure that this approach is incorporated into the crop husbandry
recommendations promulgated by the state extension service.



7W26O NATIONAL 3018  POOJEC                                                                          AINW  
projected pu,blic sector Corfarat*e'  Cart if a  Seed Beaso  By Eno of Project j/
Jots..   I        Elc             C     P    C    PC     P   CO   P    C   P   c       COther             p P   C   P      C     P C   PC         P     C   P      C    P   aOtiisr
*.P.         I    7    130  125   It      S   46   la   4   4             "a'i   no  I    is    so  too   -    -   -   -    4   4    2    2
*Aein       I   20      14   so   noe/1   I                               minsn   noee    I     -    -   -    2   I  8    -  no    -    - 14
other      soInS        as90   "a    25                                     I   5   2    a      I    I   -    -   t   2    -   -    -    -  to   a    ST   90                 no-    ea
ommiSrt    22   to       2    6   m       I  no    I  is  lS               I    3   1    3    14   s6   -    -   I   2    5   4    5    a   -   -         -    -    memno   noU   I
fea         a    2      la  I0            7   it   22   I  5   7    7    a    6  4    IS    IS   25   -    -   -   -    56a    2    6   -   -             -    -          I    -   -
U.P.       45   40      le   40    t      4    3   II  no.  2   -    -    6   20   1   13       6   IS  t9   52  no   a   Ome   7    4   to                  -        -   -   no*   2
77b        so     no    S    -      - 102 12518 10    -    -    4   t2   2    5    tO   20   1    2   -   -   IIS9   36 41   -   -                   -    -    nt.   2   no   2
Oriae       -    a      it   41    1      I--- -- 6    6   -    -    21   3t   -    -   I   I  4m    I   no   no   -   -                                  -   is      -   -    - -
ease       s  o          aO    s    a             s     9 5 5    2    2    5    6   2    3       I    1   3    4   2 4       1   2    0   IstO               -        -   -         I
".P.       me531        0250o    5        2    a    I  - - -               2   It   2   21    nos    I   2    7   -   2    -   -    -    I   -   I        -    4      -   2    -   I
U.S.       2I   es      II   so   gms     I-2  ito    5                                         -    5   -    -   I   2        -      - -       2   a    as.  40    Ps.  no    -   -
trpago    IGO too       22   22    I      I  "as  no             I    I   to   to   2    2      -    -   -    -   2   2    -   -    6           -   -     -    -   'isa.    -   -
Punmjab    0000         26   50    -    "a t-.-2    1 ts    2                                   I    I  -    -   2   a    -   -    I    2   -   -         A    4    ase   I   -   -
1656      2??  266      so  t02   is    17  16   22  I I  27   -      -I  2   20  25   41       5    7   2    6   a  is    4  to   'is  17  IS  II         1   22     6  15    7  20
so.... 0          40                    as - n   an   -  i        j26                                                           is       I - -- 1    -as   -Oma               -
votes    lo"9 *112    St  6oo   20  TI    tO   207  62 60  10  -11-1 70    27           142 V142  263  26   84  27  43   22  St        0   160  1S  27    62  223       6  21   Jfl7
5/ Tiess artletets sr  baesd am hitstorical sates dost stu esltiasted see" replacement rate. durling the ISIf. of thme project.
es prpepred by ait IDA conseultant during preeppretsal of the project.
jI  tO ewlatete a I W?.
Jf C *cuw oat. P a projected
/meas  not slgpitftcant



Iu rOlaa4a@/pachrls/INDd/SOd3/6/0S/88/r vieiona
ANNE V
Tablo 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
ProJect Cost Summary
STotal
(RSn000)                                 (US OOO)                    Sforo1gn      ase,
Local       fore1gn        Total         Local        Foreign        Total        xchane   Costs
A.  Investe_nt Creit d
501.164.4      37.922.5     539.086.9     37.123.3        2.809.1      39.932.4       7          27
D. Productivo Sunoort
1.  Agricultural Universities
Breedr Sed Farm Dev.          10.195.3         880.2      11.075.6         755.2          65.2         820.4       a           1
Foundation Seed Farm oev.     3.137.6          260.9       3.418.5         232.4          20.8         253.2       a          Q
Sub-Total Agricultura)
Universities                 13,333.0        1.161.1      14,494.1         987.6          86.0       1,073.6       a           1
2.  Central and Statea Seed                                                                                                                .0
Tasting Laboratories          21.428.5       2,127.1      23,555.7       I.S87.3         157.6       1.744.9       9           1     0
3.  Seed Certification Agencies     30.608.8       4,204.8      34.813.6       2.267.3         3t1.5       2,578.8      12          2
4.  Institutional Development        10,264.0      3,618.7      13,882.7         760.3         268.1       1,028.3      26           1
5.  Indian Council for Agric.
Resnerch                      48.185.0       s.132.2      53.317.2       3 569.3         360.2       3.949.4      1o          3
Sub-Total Productive Support   123,819.3      16.244.0     140.063.3       9.171.8       1.203.3      10.375.1      Ti          7
C.  Program Camoannt                            -  1.485.000.0   1.485.000.0              -    110,000.0     110.000.0      110         67
Total eBaeline Coats             624,983.7  l1539.1"6.5   2.164.150.2       46.295.1    114,012.3      160.307.4      71         100
Physical Contingencies          43,968.1       2.890.9      46.859.0       3.256.9         214.1       3.471.0       6          2
Price Contingencies            178.274.0       6.671.2     184.945.2      13.205.5         494.2      13.699.8       4          9
Total Project Costs            847,225.6  1.546.728.6   2.395.954.4       62,757.5    114,720.6      177.478.1 a               1it
33333333=   83333=S5s   33333333           ==33=33     333U3s3=s     3U-33g3        08S        330g



-41-                                AME  V
Table 2
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SKIDS PROJECT
Project Costs
Variety Development component
Costs of Facilities Required to Strengthen Individual Crop Projects
(for a representative model)
Item                                                         Cost (Re '000)
I. Variety Development (Monitoring &
Coordination)
Office Equipment
Micro Computer /a                                            110
Software and Misc. Items                                      40
Photocopier                                                  130
Typewriters (electronic)                                      30
310
Laboratory Equipment
Seed Cabinets (airtight)                                      20
Seed Counters (electronic)                                    25
Seed Ceminator                                               100
Index Card Cabinet                                             5
150
Training Equipment                                             SO
Vehicles
Jeep                                                         150
Total Equipment and Vehicles Cost                            760
Operating Costs (Annual)
CMC Travel Costs (travel allowance and train/
airplane tickets)                                           50
Computer Maintenance, Supplies and Software Support           20
Total Operating Costs (7 years)                              490
Total Investment and Operating Costs per Unit              1,250
Total Cost for 32 Units                               Rs  40,000
/a 640 K memory, twin floppy disc drive - including dot matrix printer.



-42-
ANE V
Tabeo 2
Page 2
IT. Gerpmlasm Conservation
storage Module (capacity 30,000)                             200
Generator Set                                                100
Room for Housing Generator                                   200
Seed Drying Equipment                                         50
Room for Housing Storage Model                               300
Seed Cleaner Cum Grader                                       50
Miscellaneous Equipment                                       50
Cost Per Unit                                              950
Total Cost (10 Units)                                    9,S00
III. Germplasm Storage (National Bureau for Plant
Genetic Research (NBPGR)
Storage Module (1 set)                                        600
Room for Housing Module                                       200
Vehicles (Jeep with Trailer)                                  150
Total Cost                                                 950
IV. Seed Monitorins Cell (ICAR Headquarters)
Micro Computer                                                110
Electronic Typewriter                                          30
Photocopier                                                    30
Miscellaneous Equipment                                        40
Operating Costs for 7 Years                                   140
Total Cost                                                  350



-43-
A=X V
Table 3
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SUDS PROJECT NSP III
ProJect Costs
Summary of Proposed Expenditures for Breeder and Foundation
Seed Production by State Agricultural Universities 7a
(in Re '000)
Agricultural               Breeder Seed        Foundation Seed
Universities               Production          Production             Total
Andhra Pradesh                  390                  -                  390
Assam                         1,342                  -                1,342
Bihar                          972                   -                  972
Gujarat                       1,170                  -                1,170
Karnataka                    3,833                   -                3,833
Madhya Pradesh                 -                     -                  -
Maharashtra                     958                2,152              3,110
Orissa                        1,099                  645              1,744
Rajasthan                       -                    -                  -
Uttar Pradesh                   603                  624              1,227
West Bengal                     718                  -                  718
Subtotal                  11,085                3,421             14,506
Physical Contingencies          776                  239              1,015
Price Contingencies          2,993                   924              3,917
Total.                    14,854                 4,584             19,438
/a The proposed expenditures for breeder and foundation seed development
mainly relate to farm development. In cases where processing facilities
are required it has in most cases been provided for at the relevant 8SC
in keeping with the project concept that commercial control of breeder
and foundation seed production should shift to the relevant SIC. Details
about specific investments are given in the Project Files.



-44-
ANNEX V
Table 4
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL 8SEDS PROJECT NSP III
Project Costs
Summary of Proposed Expenditures for State Seed
Certification Agencies ia
(in Re '000)
State 8 C A                                  Proposed Expenditure
Andhra Pradesh                                      2,922.3
Assam                                               5.374.1
Bihar                                                 811.2
Gujarat                                             4,435.6
Karnataka                                           2,080.0
Madhya Pradesh                                      19692.2
Maharashtra                                         9,335.4
Orissa                                              2,680.9
Rajasthan                                             130.0
Uttar Pradesh                                       2,125.0
West Bengal                                         3,250.0
Subtotal                                         34,836.7
Physical Contingencies   .                          2,438.6
Price Contingencies                                 99405.9
Total                                            46M681.2
/a More specific details are provided in the Project Files.



-45-                             ANNEX V
Table 5
INDIA
TUIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Pro3ect Costs
Representative Model for Strengthening Seed Testing Laboratories
Equipment                                                       Cost
(Rs-00o)
Sampling
Drawing & dividing equirment, triers & mechanical
dividers (Boernergamet & soil dividers)                          10
Purity
Parity analysis equipment-microscopes, set of sample
screens, forceps, magnifying glasses, diaphanscope,
seed blowers and weighing balances, etc.                         40
Cermination
Vacuum counter, cabinet germinator and walk-in type
germinator, etc.                                                110
Moisture
Seed grinder, air oven, moisture meters and weighing
bottles &nd desiccators, etc.                                    36
Seed Health Testing
*)  Wild Stereo binocular-microscope - two                     96
ii)  Compound retaarch microscope - one                         36
Hii) Incubator (for maintaining 20oc) fitted
with NUV tubes, timer racks, etc.                          60
iv)  Deep freeze                                                30
v)  Laminar flow                                               25
vi) Glass house for pathogenicity tests                        120
Total (End 1987 Prices)                          563
Total (Adjusted for Mid-1988 Prices)             586
Total Cost to strengthen 24 labs. /a                     Rs 14,064
/a State Covernumnts would ensure that the laboratory which they propose to
strengthen should have the necessary space, staff and budgetary provision
to meet recurrent expenditure. The laboratory which is capable of
testing 10,000 to 15t000 samples per year should have at least 200 to 250
sq. meter working space. Similarly, the laboratory should have the
required number of seed analysts and other technical staff possessing
proper qualifications to conduct the various tests.



-46-
ANNEX V
Table 6
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Project Costs
Central Seed Testing Laboratory
Item                                                                Cost
(Rs-'-00)
Land Develcpment                                                     500
Construction /a
Administration Building (210 m2)
Laboratory and Processing Unit (1,250 m2)                          3,650
squipomt
Seed testing equipment air conditioning of storage
rooms; dehumidification equipment                                  1,140
Lab equipment for seed processing                                  1,040
Total                                         Rs  6,350
/a Estimated cost Q Rs 2,600/m2.



-47-
ANNE V
Table 7
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT NSP III
Project Costs
Seed Cleaning on Farmers Fields /a
Item               Unit Coat              No.          Cost (Re '000)
Seed Cleaner            78,000                36                2,808
(1 TPH)
Seed Treater            10,400                36                  374
(1 TM)
Total Costs                                                 3,182
/a All project states will be provided witb a minimum of 3 units each.



-48-
ANNEX V
'Table8
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT NSP III
Project Costs
Training Component /a
Item               Unit Cost              No.          Cost (US$)
Airfare                   3,0oo
50            150t000.00
Hotel Expenses
and Per Diems          5,250                50             262,500.00
Study Tour
Organizational
Expenses /b            6,000                 8             40,000.00
Total Base Cost                                      460,500.00
/a The study tours would be arranged for selected managers
from public sector corporations and private sector companies. About 50
participants would be divided up into about eight groups to be. involved
in study tours to Europe, USA, Australia/New Zealand and Japan/Korea.
/b In order to ensure the maximum benefit from these study tourst they
should be organized professionally. These expenditures would also be
covered.



-49-
ANNEX VI
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
National Research Centers,
Crop Directorates and Coord:nated Projects
To be Supported Under the Project
National Research Center                                            Site
National Research Center for Groundnut                            Junagadh
National Research Center for Soyabean                             Indore
Directorate
Directorate of Wheat Research                                     New Delhi
Directorate of Rice Research                                      Hyderabad
Directorate of Pulses Research                                    Kanpur
Directorate of Oilseed Research                                   Hyderabad
Directorate of Vegetable Research                                 New Delhi
Coordinated Projects
All India Coordinated Barley Improvement Project                  Karnal
All India Coordinated Maize Improvement Project                   New Delhi
All India Coordinated Pearl Millet Improvement Project            Pune
All India Coordinated Small Millet Improvement Project            Bangalore
All India Coordinated Forage Improvement Project                  Jhansi
All India Coordinated Sorghum Improvement Project                 Hyderabad
All India Coordinated Cuar Improvement Project                    New Delhi
All India Coordinated Sugarcane Improvement Project               Lucknow
All India Coordinated Sugarbeet Improvement Project               Lucknow
All India Coordinated Research Project on Cotton                  Coimbatore
All India Coordinated Research Project on Jute and                Barrackpore
Allied Fibres
All India Coordinated Research Project on Cashew                  Vittal
All India Coordinated Research Project on Spices                  Calicut
All India Coordinated Research Project on Potato                  Shiula
All India Coordinated Research Project on Tuber Crops             Bhubaneshwar
All India Coordinated Research Project on Medicinal               New Delhi
and Aromatic Plants
All India Coordinated Research Project on Tropical                Bangalore
Fruits
All India Coordinated Research Project on Arid Fruits             Hissar
All India Coordinated Research Project on Sub-Tropical            Lucknow
Fruits
All India Coordinated Research Project on                         New Delhi
Floriculture
All India Coordinated Research Project on Oilseeds                Hissar, Kanpur,
(Sunflower, Rapeseed, Mustard, Safflower, Seseme,               Jodphur, Solapur
Niger, Linseeds, Groundnut and Castor)                         and Bangalore



-50-
ANNEX VII
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SENDS PROJECT
Variety Development Component
Variety Evaluation and Release Consultancy
Draft Terms of Reference
1.      The present arrangements in India for variety development, testing,
evaluation, and release are as follows:
(a) new varieties are developed by SAUs and ICAR institutes, and
to a small extent by private seed companies;
(b) varieties that show some promise are entered into the All India
Coordinated Trials (AICT) operated by SAUs, ICAR institutes, and
State DOA's under the auspices of ICAR; and
(c) results of the AICT are presented at the respective Annual
Workshops 1/ for each crop, where recommendations are formulated
for submission to the Variety Release Sub-Committee of the
Central Seed Committee who make final recommendations to the HUA
on which varieties should be released and notified.
2.      The consultants' task would be to review all aspects of (b) and (c),
and report on the effectiveness of the existing arrangements and make recom-
mendations as appropriate on the most efficient and effective management and
organizational arrangements for undertaking this work in the future.
3.      It is expected that the consultancy would be undertaken by a two man
team; a scientist familiar with (and with working experience in) the existing
arrangements, and a consultant widely experienced in the field includin0 from
other parts of the World as well. The assignment is expected to be completed
in eight weeks, including three to four weeks in the field in India.
1/ Composed of a range of scientists and plant breeders working on that
particular crop.



-51-
ANNEX VIII
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank's                                   Disbursed during
Fiscal Year         Semester                  Semester                Cumulative
Project      Program
Component    Component
1989             Dec  31, 1988           3 /a          40                43
June 30, 1989           0            -                 43
1990             Dec  31, 1989           0             -                 43
June 30, 1990           2            -                 45
1991             Dec  31, 1990           2             35                82
June 30, 1991           3            -                 85
1992             Dec  31, 1991           3             -                 88
June 30, 1992           3            35               126
1993             Dec  31, 1992           4             -                130
June 30, 1993           4            -                134
1994             Dec  31, 1993           4             -                138
June 30, 1994           4            -                142
1995             Dec  31, 1994           4             -                146
June 30, 1995           4            -                150
la Setting up revolving fund which includes retroactive financing.



-52-                             ANNEX IX
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Principal Consultant to Project Management Unit
Draft Terms of Reference
The role of the Principal Consultant would be to assist the PMU in
the identification of suitable financial management consultants for
individual State Seed Corporations (SSC), reviewing the quality of their work
and the resultant action plans. In particular, the consultant would:
(a) Draw up a list of suitable consultants for selection by each SSC, and
review their qualifications and experience to ensure their suitability
to carry out the proposed consultancy.
(b) Prepare detailed Terms of References (TORs) for SSC/NSC/SFCI
consultants, based on the guidelines agreed by GOI/Iorld Bank includ-
ing aspects covering finance, management and organization, and
management information systems.
(c) Advise the PMU on the contract arrangements between the S8Cs and its
consultants, including the appropriate fees for services, expenses,
and the timetable for the engagements.
(d) Monitor the progress of the consultancy engagements against proposed
timetables.
(e) Review the reports of the consultants and their recommendations.
Participate in discussions with the SSCs, NSC AND SFCI relating to
their reaction to the consultants' comments and recommendations, and
assist as necessary in the development of a program for implementing
remedial and other actions agreed.
(f)  Monitor the implementation of the actions agreed and advise the PMU
on the progress thereof.
(h) Provide any other assistance to the PMU relating to the monitoring
and implementing of institutional development required under the
project.



-53-                              AM=  IX
Page 2
Qualification
The Principal Consultant should:
(a) be a firm of reputed management consultants and professional
accountants, willing to assign a senior functionary to be in charge
of the consultancy. The designated functionary should inter alia
have strong expertise in the area of financial management, accounting
and internal control procedures, management information systems, and
with the capabilities to develop proposals for financial
restructuring;
(b)  be willing to accept the assignment for the life of the project,
subject to satisfactory performance;
(c) have an office in New Delhi to have ready access to the PIWU;
(d) preferably have previous experience in dealing with the operations of
public sector corporations; and
(e) agree not to accept appointment as a consultant to NSC/SFCI/SSCs
participating under the project, or become the auditor of the project
accounts, during the life of the project.



-54-ANX 
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT (NSP III)
CONSULTANT TO SEED CORPORATIONS
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The principal role of the consultant would be to review the operation
of the Corporation to ascertain its current financial viability, thereby
enabling the corporation to earn a minimum rate of return on its equity as
required under the project. The review would include an assessment of its
organization and management, and its accounting and financial management
systems.
Operating Review
The following would be the major areas of concern in reviewing the
operations of a seed corporation:
(a)  the financing of the organization, including a proper debt/equity
relationship and the availability of adequate working capital as and
when required;
(b)  the utilization of available capacity, with proper financial evalua-
tion before capital expenditure for expansion or replacement is
contemplated;
(c)  procedures for planning and preparing budgets before the beginning of
each year; including the procedures for comparing actual performance
to plans and budgets and for taking remedial action where necessary.
Planning would also include aspects relating to the availability and
timing of procurement of seeds in relation to sales;
(d)  seed pricing arrangements including the procurement price of raw seed
and sale price of finished seed;
Ce)  the control over processing cost and maintaining of inventory levels,
including minimizing loss on inventories at all levels through
shortage, spoilage, etc;
(f)  procedures to ensure that staff levels are normal to the size of the
operation and that economic staff levels are maintained;
(g) timeliness and adequacy of the management information system, includ-
ing the adequacy of financial information sufficient to identify
performance by centres of responsibility; and



-55-
ANNM X
Page 2
(h) an assessment of all other costs and operational factors affecting
the viability of the organization.
Organization and Management
The review of the organization and management would include an
assessment ofs
(a) the managerial structure, division of all operational
responsibilities, and the working of the management team. While the
consultant would not review technical and agronomic details, the
consultant would be required to obtain an understanding of the
general operations of the corporation;
(b) the clarity of the objectives of the corporation, the respon-
sibilities of the members of the management team, and how performance
is measured (job descriptions should be developed for the management
team);
(c) the flow and timeliness of key performance indicators to the manage-
ment and to other users of the information; and
(d) procedures for engaging and managing personnel, including training
needs and how these needs are fulfilled.
Accounting and Financial Mauagement
The accounting and financial management review would include an
assessment of:
(a)  procedures for developing the budget, the timeliness of its
preparation, comparison to actual and the explanation of variances;
(b)  the accuracy and timeliness of the accounting, and its ability to
provide informatios to reflect performance by cost/responsibility
centres. (This would require an adequate system of cost/management
accounting including an appropriate chart of accounts;
(c) the qualifications of the accounting staff;
(d) the adequacy of the internal control procedures to secure the assets
of the corporation, including inventories, fixed assets and
receivables. The role of the internal auditor would be included in
this review;
(e) control over inventories, in particular the basis for its costing and
financing; and



-56-                            ANNEK X
Page 3
(f) any other aspect of accounting and financial management considered
necessary.
Report
The consultant would prepare a report sumarizing the findings of the
review and recommending a course of action necessary for improving weaknesses
identified. This would be submitted to the corporation concerned, and copied
to the PMU.
The consultant would thereafter provide guidance in implementation of
the agreed action plan, and assist in determining training needs and for-
mulating necessary training programs.
Appointment of the Consultant
The consultant should be a firm of reputed management consultants
with strong capabilities and past experience in reviewing and suggesting
improvements in management accounting, organization and management, and
management information systems in similar type institutions.
The consultant would be appointed based on the submission of a writ-
ten proposal outlining the firm's principal experience in siuilar type
assignments, nominating the in-charge staff member and supporting staff
showing their qualifications and experience.
The first part of the assignment should be the review of the
corporation, and preparation of a report outlining the findings of the
review.  The second part would be to prepare an Action Plan based on this
review and, initiate the Plan provisions. The estimated time to be taken,
related cost and expenses should be agreed in two parts. It is only after
the first phase has been completed that a proper assessment could be made of
the time necessary and the related costs required for the second phase. It
wold be essential that the same consultant continue in the second phase.



-57-
ANNEX XI
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT (NsP III)
A Representative Action Plan
The action plan drawn up after the consultants review would address
specific areas of weaknesses identiZied and apply appropriate temporal tar-
gets for undertaking key adjustments. The time period within which specific
actions have to be implemented would be designated in the Action Plan
Implementation Agreement. A representative action plan would (inter alia)
specify the following.
1. Completion of the financial restructuring of the corporation as
necessary which would ensure that the debt to equity ratio of the
institution concerned would not be more adverse than 70:30.
2. Introduction of remedial measures to allow the seed corporation to
achieve financial self-sufficiency. FinancialI self-sufficiency would
require that the institution earn a financial rate of return,
sufficient to maintain the real value of its equity.
3. Introduction of procedures as required for the determination of
appropriate seed procurement and pricing levels. Prices should
reflect the cost of seeds procured, processing costs and other
expenditure including depreciation and financing and also provide an
adequate margin tc achieve financial self-sufficiency specified in
para. 2 above.
4. Introduction of a program to adjust staffing to economic levels, as
identified during the consultants review. Progress of implementation
of this program would be monitored annually.
5. Introduction of procedures as necessary to bring up to date and
maintain accounting records within 1 year. At the end of this
period, finalization of full monthly accounts (balance sheet, income
statements and supporting schedules) should not be more than one
month in arrears.
6. Adoption of procedures to finalize annual audited accounts no later
than 6 months after the end of the financial year, this to be
achieved during a period of 2 years.
7.  Introduction of procedures to ensure proper budgeting and
planning, control over inventories and provision of adequate
management information.
8. Introduction of procedures as required to remedy any other
institutional weaknesses as detailed in the action plan.



-58-                                     ANNK KII
Table I(a)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Modified National Seeds Corporation (N8C) Projected Balance Sheets
Year Ending March 31
(Re 000's)
1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
Shareholders' Funds
Share Capital                 196,879   201,792   207,675   211,581   211,581   211,581
Reserves & Surplus            (22,600)  (16,768)   (3,025)   12,665    34,098    60,707
Capital Grant Reserve             286       286        286       286        286        286
Subtotal                    174,565   185,310   204,939   224,532   245,965   272,574
Long Term Loans
(Incl. Capitalized Int.)      28,856    40,637    54,663    63,490    62,063    60,636
Current Liabilities
Cash Credit                    35,254    18,938    22,487      4,935          0          0
Other Current Liab. & Prov.  151,266   151,266   151,266   151,266   151,266   151,266
Subtotal                    186,520   170,204   173,753   156,201   151,266   15.1,266
Total Shareholders Funds,
Long Term Loans &
Current Liabilities          389,940   396,161   433,352   444,223   459,294   484,476
Fixed Assets
Cross Block
(Incl. Capitalized Int.)   122,038   141,169   163,496   178,655   178,655   178,655
Less Accum. Depreciation      (53,280)  (60,677)  (69,361)  (79,079)  (89,041)  (99,253)
Subtotal                     68075     80,8492    94,135    99,576    89,614    79,42
Investments                    63,679    63,679    63,679    63,679    63,679    67,679
Current Assets
Inventories                   116t640   111,127   134,675    26,667    30,000    30,000
Debtors                        55,109    55,109    55,109      6,667      7,500     7,500
Cash & Bank                    16,674    16,674    16,674      3,333      5,925    10,641
Loans & Advances               69,074    69,074    69t074    69,074    69,074    69,074
Other Current Assets                6           6        6          6         6          6
Subtotal                    257,503   251,990   275,538   280,968   306,001   337,395
Total Assets and
Investments                 389,940   396t161   433,352   444,223   459,294   484,476



-59-                                   Anne- XII
Table 1(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT
Modified National Seeds Corporation (NSC) Pro3ected Income Statement
Year EndinS March 31
(Rs 000's)
1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1990/91   1991/92
Total Sales                268,323   255,640   309p809   322,300   334,788   348,605
Condemnation Loss          ( 8,050)  ( 7,669)  ( 9,294)  ( 9,669)  (10,044)  (10,458)
Foundation Seed             29,656    28,249    31,265    31,962    32,659    33,411
Other Income                 4,700      4,700     4,700     4,7000    4,700    4,700
Total Income               294,629   280,920   336,481   349,293   362,103   376,257
Cost of Sales              198,211   180.806   215,348   223,548   231,746   242,680
Gross Margin                96,418   100,114   121,133   125,745   130,357   133,578
Variable Costs              32,868    29,748    36,370    37,913    39,455    41,168
Rent                        13,346    13,346    12t818    11,848    10,241    10,241
Advertising & Publicity      1,400      1,400     1,400     1,400      1,400     1,400
Manpower                    34,490    34,490    39,424    39,424    39,424    39,424
Depeciation                  8,608      7,397     8,684     9,718     9,962    10j212
Other Costs (Fixed)          1,500      1,500     1,500     1,500      1,500     1,S00
Short Term Interest          4,936      3,811     2,953     2,007    ( 905)   (4,644)
Subtotal                  97,148    91,692   103,149   103,810   101,810    99,301
Profit before Long-Term
Interest                 C   730)   8,422      17,984    21,935    29,280    99,301
Long Term Interest           3,244    2,590       4,241     6,245      7,847     7,669
Net Profit - Annual        ( 3,974)   5,832      13,t743    15,690    21,433    26,609
- Accumulated   (22,600) (16,768)   ( 3,025)   12,665    34,098    60,707
Financial Return on            0        5.2        11.3     11.1       13.3      14.6
Equity Z



-60-                      ANNEX XII
Attachment to
Tables 1(a), l(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
Assumptions on which Projections are Based
The projections reflect NBC's operating experience over the past five
years with adjustments as follows:
(a) Sales income is based on demand projections developed from a market
review carried out by a consultant to IDA.
(b) Condemnation loss estimated at 32.
(c) Cost of certified seeds and foundation seeds from growers estimated
to be equal to 642 of sales, providing a gross margin of 362. Hence
price increases necessary have been assumed.
(d) Manpower cost represents what is considered to be normal manning
levels plus 202. Actual manpower cost at present is considered to be
ecessive. It is proposed that the excess cost be separately
accounted and progressively eliminated during the life of the
project.
(e) Rent of godowns and other facilities are shown at current costs,
reduced progressively as it is replaced by additional owned capacity.
Cf) Interest cost reflects the proposed restructuring of NSC's financing.
This includes the reduction of borrowings equal to excess inventories
held as buffer stocks on behalf of GOI.
(g) Variable costs comprise transport, processing, inspection, repairs
and maintenance and other direct production costs, based on the
previous 5 years experience.
Ch) Costs are stated in 1987 prices.
The Financial Return on Equity employed is calculated after deducting
from equity, investments which are holdings in 8SCs on behalf of the GOI.



-61-                                        A5NU XIU
Table 2(a)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT
State Seed Corporation - Model 1
Projected Balance Sheet.
Year Ending March 31
(Ri cOO's)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Shareholders' Funds
Share Capital                   7,905   16,664   21,651   22,364   23,076   23,076   23,076
Reserves-Surplus                    0  ( 2,846) ( 3,254) ( 1,680)   2,300    6,920   12,360
(Deficit)                  __9__  __3_                  _____4  _______  __9_9_9  ____3_
Subtotal                      7,905   13,818   18,397   20,684   25,376   29,996   35,436
Long Term Loans
(Incl. Capitalized Int.)    20, 751   46,336   57,974   55,771   53,569   49,704   45,839
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loans/
Cash Credit                       0        0    2,155       943     -          -        -
Other Current Liab. & Prov.         0        0   20,417   23,333   26,250   26,250   26 250
Total Current Liab.                 6        0   22,571   24,276   26,250   26,250
Total Shareholders Funds,
Long Term Loans &
Current Liabilities           28,656   60,154   98,943  100,731  105,195  105,950  107,525
Fixed Assets
Gross Block                    28,656   60,155  60,155   60,655   61,655   62,655   63,655
Less Accum. Depreciation            0        0    4,961    9,922   14,884   19,846   24,807
Net Book Value                 28,656   60,155   55,193   50,731   46,770   42,809   38,847
Current Assets
Inventories                         0        0   23,333   26,667   30,000   30,000   30t000
Debtors                             0        0    5,833    6,667    7,500    7,500    7,500
Cash & Bank                         0        0    2,917    3,333    5,925   10,641   16,178
Loans & Advances                    0        0   11,667   13,333   lS,000   15,000   15,000
Total Current Assets                0        0   43,750   50,000   58,425   63,141   68,678
Total Assets                   28,656   60t155   98,943  100,731  105,195  105,950  107,525



-62-                                    ANMEX XII
Table 2(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIOVAL SEEDS PROJECT
State Seed Corporation - model 1
ProJected Income Statement
Year Ending March 31
(Rs 000's)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Sales (Volume. in Qtls.)          0        0  133,843  152,964  172,084  172,084  172,084
Total Sales                       0        0   70,000   80,0000   90,000   90,000   90,000
Condemnation Loss                 0        0   (2,100) ( 2,400) ( 2,700) ( 2,700) ( 2,700)
Other Income                      0        0       S00      500       500      500      500
Total Income                      0        0   68,400   78,100   87,800   87,000   87,000
Cost of Sales                     0        0   43,776   49,984   56,192   56,192   56,192
Cross Margin                      0        0   24,624   28,116   31,608   31,608   31,608
Variable Costs                    0        0    6,789    7,758    8,728    8,728    8,728
Rent                              0      280       560      560      560       560      560
Advertising & Publicity           0        0       342      391      439       439      439
Manpower                          0    2,333    4,666    5,132    5,645    5,645    5,645
Depeciation
(Incl. Cap. Int.)                0        0    4,961    4,961    4,961    4,961    4,961
Other Costs (Fixed)               0      233       467      467      467       467      467
Short Term Interest               0        0         0      302      132       (26)    (363)
Subtotal                        0    2,846   17,785   19,571   20,932   20,774   20,437
Profit before Long-Term
Interest                        0   (2,846)   6,839    8,545   10,676   10,834   11,171
Long Term Interest                0        0    7,247    6,971    6,696    6,214    5,731
Profit (Loss)                     0   (2,846)    (408)   1,574    3,980    4,620    5,440
Accumulated Profit (Loss'         0   (2,846)  (3,254)  (1,680)   2,300    6,920   12,360
Financial Return on Equity X      -      -         -       11.4     19.2      18.2     18.1



-63-                         ANNUX XII
Attachment to
Tables 2(a) & 2(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
state Seed Corporation (SSC) - Model 1
Assumptions on which Projections are Based
The projection reflects a new SSC requiring a capital investment of
about Rs 60 million, enabling it to process seeds (value of about Rs 100
million at full capacity) at 1987 prices. This size is representative of a
medium size SSC (e.g., laryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat). The following are
the main assumptions.
(a) The SSC would process a mix of 751 self-pollinated foodgrain seeds
and 251 hybrids.
(b) Cross margin would be equal to 361 of sales value. This compares to
the current average of 341 and hence necessary price increases have
been assumed.
(c) Processing would commence in year 3 from the initial investment date
with 701 capacity utilization, increasing to 90Z from year 4 onwards.
(d) Investment cost reflects plant size of 20,000 quintals per year the
average size to be financed under the project. (Larger capacities
would be more economical but is outweighed by lower utilization
percentage and/or higher transport costs.)
(e) Condemnation loss is estimated at 31.
(f) Variable cost includes processing, transport, handling repairs and
maintenance and other direct production cost.
(g) Office and administrative buildings are rented.
(h) Manpower costs are based on an actual SSC with staffing levels con-
sidered acceptable by the mission consultant to IDA.
(i) Financing of investment costs based on a 70/30 debt/equity basis,
including fixed working capital. The cost of normal working capital
is calculated at commercial rates.



ANNEX XII
-64-                              Table 3(a)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
State Seeds Corporation - Model 2
Projected Balance Sheets
Year Ending March 31
(Re 000's)
1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92
Shareholders' Funds
Share Capital                   37,160    40,460    45,860    47,760    47,760
Reserves & Surplus               7,310     8,610    11,910    24,610    42,110
44,470    49,070    57,770    72,370    89,870
Term Loans
(Incl. Cap. Interest)                       77200    19,300    25,300    25t300
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loans                68,900    35,000    20,000    10,000        -
Other                           17,510    17,500    17,500    17,500    17,500
86,410    52,500    37,500    27,500    17,500
Total Shareholders Funds,
Long Term Loans & Current    130,880   108,770   114,570   125,170   132t670
Liabilities                   n=n *-uD.
Fixed Assets
Gross Block                     27,960    37,960    53,960    59,600    59,660
Less Accum. Depreciation        (6,420)   (8S120)   (9,820)  (14,520)  (19,220)
Subtotal                        21t540    29,840    44,140    45,140    40,440
Current Assets
Inventories                     37,470    25t000    25,000    30,000    35,000
Debtors and Advances            38t080    25t000    25t000    20,000    20,000
Cash & Bank                     33,790    28,930    209430    30 030    37,230
Total Current Assets           109,340    78 930    70,430    809030    92,230
Total Assets                   130,880   18'770   114,570   125,170   132,670
---                                     I _m_ _u  "



-65-                              Annex XII
Table 3(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
State Seed Corporation - Model 2
Projected Income Statements
Year Ending March 31
(Rs 000's)
1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92
Income
Sales less Condemnation Loss    82,790    90,000    95,000   150,000   190,000
Cost of Sales - Materials        53,390    57,600    60,800    96,000   121,600
Total Income                    29,400    32,400    34,200    54,000    68,400
Other Costs
Variable Costs                   1O,380    14,000    14,000    18,000    24,000
Manpower                          5,140     5,200     5,300      7,400     8t700
Administrative                    1,760     1,800      1,800     1,800     1,900
Selling Expenses                  4,620     4,400     4,000      6,000     8,000
Interest                          4,320     3,500     2,600      1,200       400
Depreciation                      1,690     1,700     19700      4,700     49700
27,910    30,600    29,400    39,100    47,700
Profit Before
Long-Term Interest               1,490     1,800      4,800    14,900    20,700
Long-Term Interest                   -         500      1,500      29200     3,200
Profit                             1,490     1,300      3,300    12,700    17,500
Financial Return on Equity X         -        2.9X       6.71      21.91     24.2X



-66-                        ANNEX XII
Attachment to
Tables 3(a) 4 3(b)
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SHEDS PROJECT
State seed Corporation (SSC) - Model 2
Assumptions on which Projections are Based
The project reflects an existing SSC expanding its processing
capacity by about 100l during the life of the project and is based on actual
anticipated investments. The size of the operation is representative of a
mid-size SSC (e.g, Raryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat). The following are the
main assumptions.
(a) The S8C would process a mix of 751 self-pollinated foodgrain seeds
and 25 hybrids.
(b) Gross margin would increase from 35X to 361 of sales volume.
(c) Investment cost reflects plant size of 20,000 quintals per year the
average size to be financed under the project. (Larger capacities
would be more economical but is outweighed by lower utilization
percentage and/or higher transport costs.)
'd) Condemnation loss is estimated at 31.
Ce) Variable cost includes processing, transport, handling, repairs and
maintenance and other direct production cost.
(f) Administrative costs include office expenses.
(g) Manpower costs are based on an actual SSC with staffing levels con-
sidered acceptable by the mission consultant to IDA.
(h) Financing of investment costs based on a 70/30 debt/equity basis,
including fixed working capital. The cost of normal working capital
is calculated at commercial rates.



-67-                            ANNX XIII
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL 8EeD8 PROJECT (NSPIII)
Economic Justification
Benefits
1.      It is assumed that the incremental certified seed produced by public
sector corporations would replace seeds currently being used in areas already
sown under HYVs. Hence no genetic impact on yield is assumed. Therefore,
the use of project produced seeds is not expected to lead to any changes in
cultural practices or use of inputs.
2.      The use of the higher quality seed would lead to an increase in
yields. The yield increases for self pollinated crops such as wheat and rice
are not expected to be very high and an increase of 51 is assumed. l/ The
yield increase from hybrids, i.e., maize, jowar and bajra are expected to
be higher at around 101. Yield increases for grams are expected to be around
101, and for the oilseeds (i.e. soyabeans, groundnut and mustard) also at
around 101.
3.      At full development, the annual incremental crop production generated
by the project produced seed produced by the public sector corporations under
the project is estimated at 10,710 MT of wheat, 59,370 MT of rice, 28,980 MT
of maize, 12,190 MT of jowar (sorghum), 24,570 MT of bajra (millet), 51,520
MT of grams, 7,270 NT of groundnut, 11,200 MT of soyabeans and 32,200 MT of
mustard. The incremental value of these crops, calculated at international
prices for commodities traded internationally, and at farmgate prices for
those that are not, would be about US$45 million annually. Details are given
in Table 1. 2/ The public sector corporations are also expected to increase
seed production of potatoes, cotton, other pulses, fodder crops, etc., and
the incremental value of the resultant crop production though not quantified
and included in the analysis is expected to be significant. The incremental
1/ Yield increases on average for rice on an All India basis has been
running at about 21 per annum and for wheat at about 31. Hence a 51
increase due to improved seed is a conservative estimate. In the case
of hybrids (maize, jowar and bajra) as the improved seed would replace
traditional varieties a yield increase of 101 is feasible. The same is
true of yield increases estimated for grams and the oilseeds.
2/ Incremental production of wheat, rice, maize, jowar and soyabean have
been valued at current international prices (adjusted for cif Indian
ports). Ba3ra, 8ram and groundauts have been valued at Indian farmgate
prices by adjusting wholesale prices for transport costs (Table 2).



-68-
ANNEX XIII
Page 2
annual costs associated with the increased seed production of the crops
specified above by public sector corporations is estimated at US$23 million,
giving a net annual incremental value of production of US$22 million.
Costs
5.      The incremental costs associated with the increased level of cer-
tified seed production by the public sector corporations are given in Tables
2-6. Incremental farm labor required mainly during the peak demand seasons
for harvesting is costed at market rates (Rs 10 per manday). Since almost
all project institutions are to some extent overmanned, it is assumed that no
additional labor costs would arise for processing, marketing and administra-
tion at Universities and corporations, SCAs and STLS. Costs of plant
breeding, seed technology research, seed testing laboratories, consultancies
etc. are charged to the project. Prices used in the analysis reflect mid-
1988 levels. However, since private sector benefits are not included in the
economic analysis, the costs associated with private sector investments
tentatively already identified are not included. The program component is
also not charged to the project, as it does not generate any direct project
benefits. Import duties and taxes have also been excluded from costs.
Other Assumptions
6.      Foreign exchange costs have been adjusted using a conversion factor
of 1.25. Cost streams are considered for only 12 years, and the benefit
streams are included for an additional year to atcount for the increased crop
yield from seed produced in year 12.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
7.      Based on the foregoing assumptions the ERR would be 322 (Table 8).
A sensitivity analysis assuming a 201 reduction in seed production annually
yields an ERR of 16X. A 20Z increase in operating costs annually would
reduce the ERR to 222. In an adverse situation with a 152 decline in seed
production and a 152 increase in operating costs annually the ERR reduces to
131, which is still above the opportunity cost of capital in India.
Beneficiaries
8.      About 1.1 million farmers would benefit directly from the seed
produced by the public sector corporations if it is assumed that the improved
seed produced is sown directly to a commercial crop. 1/ Consequently about
1/ Assuming that on average a farmer would use project seed on 2 ha
annually.



ANNEX XIII
Page 3
5.5 million persons I/ would benefit, being family mmbers of farmer
beneficiaries. In addition, about 11,000 man-years of seasonal employment
would be created for harvesting. However, if the seed plot concept is
adopted widely, particularly for the self-pollinated crops, the number of
beneficiaries would be much larger. For example, in the case of wheat which
has a multiplication rate of 20, if all the improved project produced seed is
used on seed plots then the number of beneficiaries would be 20 times greater
than if the improved seed is sown directly to a commercial crop. In reality,
the situation would be somewhere in between. Hence, the project would also
have substantial positive impact on the rural poor as the change in the seed
distribution concept being promoted under the project would enable farmers to
buy seed in small quantities. Consequently, a significant proportion of
project produced seed is expected to be used by small farmers cultivating
less than 1 ha of land resulting in increased productivity and small farmer
incomes.
1/ Assuming an average of S members per farming family.



-70-                              ANNEX XIII
Tabile 1
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Analyois
Annual Incremental Crop Production Generated by Seed
Produced by Public Sector Seed Corporations Under
the Project at Full Development
Crop
Assumed          Total          Production         Value of
Yield        Anticipated    Due to Project        Production
Increase         Crop            Produced       Due to Project
Crop          Due to Seed      Production         Seed           Produced Seed
(2)           '000 MT          '000 MT         US$ Million /a
wheat             5              214.20           10.71               1.82
Rice              5            1,187.34          59.37               13.77
Maize            10              289.80          28.98                2.98
Jowar            10              121.94           12.19               1.23
Sajra            10              245.70          24.57                2.46
Grams            10              515.20          51.52               10.30
Groundnut        10               72.66            7.27               1.96
soya             10              112.00          11.20                2.69
Mustard          10              322.00          32.20                7.73
TOTAL                                                            44.95
/a  The value of crop production due to improved seed was calculated based
on the economic commodity prices given in Table 2.



-71-
ANNEX XIII
Table 2
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL 8HED8 PROJECT
Economic Commodity Prices
(US$Metric Ton)
US Dollars/
Commodity                                             Metric Ton /a
Wheat                                                    170 /a
Rice                                                     232 /a
maize                                                    103 /a
Jowar                                                    101 /a
Boyabean                                                 240 /a
Groundnut                                                270 /b
Bajra                                                    100 /b
Mustard                                                  240 /b
Grams                                                    200 /b
/a International prices used were from the World Bank International Price
forecasts, September 1987. An average of 1986 actual and 1987 projected
prices were used in calculating FOB prices, which was then adjusted to
include shipping costs to Indian ports. The prices used were: wheat-
Canadian No. 1 UPS, in store Thunderbay; rice-Thai white milled 5Z
broken FOB Bangkok; maize-US No. 2, yellow FOB Gulf ports; jowar
(sorghum)-US No. 2 milo yellow, FOB Gulf ports; soyabeans (US) CIF
Rotterdam.
/b Valued at Indian farugate prices based on prices received at wholesale
markets, adjusted for transport costs.



-72-
ANNEX XIII
Table 3
INDIA
TURD NATIONAL SEIDS PROJECT
Variable Costs of Production of Various Certified Seeds
(Rs./Quintal in 86/87 Prices)
Wheat   Paddy   Kaise   Jowar   Bajra   Grndnut Soyabean  Mustard  Gram
Production Costs /a       133.00  126.00  162.00  308.00  324.00  452.00   309.00   353.00  259.00
Processing Costs:
Processing Charges       16.20   16.20   21.60   21.60   21.60   21.60    16.20    16.20   16.20
Packing/Certification   27.00   32.40   27.00   43.20   48.60   37.80    21.60    43.20   16.20
Haterial
Treatmeat Material        4.32    3.24    3.24    4.86    3.24    5.40          3.24      3.24    3.24
Transportation Charges    21.60   21.60   32.40   54.00   54.00   54.00    32.40    32.40   32.40
Storage Charges             6.48    4.32    3.24    3.24    3.24    3.24          6.48      6.48    3.24
Transit Losses               1.04    1.02    1.25    2.17    2.27    2.87         1.94      2.27    1.65
Storage Losses               1.04    1.02    1.25    2.17    2.27    2.87         1.94      2.27    1.65
Obsolescence                 9.39    9.17   11.23   19.57   20.46   25.83    17.50    20.45   14.86
Revalidation Charges         1.08    1.08    1.08    1.08    1.08    1.08         1.08      1.08    1.08
Niscellaneous Selling        3.24    3.24    3.24    3.24    3.24    3.24         3.24      3.24    3.24
Expenditure
Dealers Comaission          16.59   16.20   19.82   34.49   36.06   45.50    30.85    36.04   26.21
Total Variable Costs      240.98  235.49  287.34  497.63  520.06  655.43   445.48   519.88  367.98
/a  This is an estimate based on available information and the procurement
price paid to the seed growers.



-73-
ANNEX XIII
Table 4
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Costs of Foundation Seed Production and Processing
(Rs./Quintal)
Production    Processing        Total
Cost /a       Cost /b           Cost
Ta)
Cereals      -   Wheat            266            90               356
Rice            220            40                260
Maise           440            55                495
Jowar           540.           55                595
Bajra           610            50                660
Pulses       -   Grams            423            35               458
Oilseeds     -   Groundnut        635            60                695
Soyabean        475            45                520
Mustard         630            60                690
/a Production of foundation seed is done by a number of agencies,
such as agricultural universities, seed corporations and private
seed companies, and information on production and processing costs
are not readily available, and when available, not comparable.
Consequently, the procurement price paid by NSC for foundation seed
is used as a proxy for cost of production, as these prices are expected
to cover actual variable costs of production.
/b The processing costs are based on N8C's figures, with labor rates
calculated at market rates.



-74-
ANNEX XIII
Table 5
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Cost of Breeder Seed Production and Processing /a
(Rs./Quintal)
Crops                                   Cost
(Rs.)
Cereals      -        Wheat                                      620
Rice                                      570
Maize                                   1,425
Jowar                                   2,115
Bajra                                   2,325
Pulses       -        Grams                                    1,125
Oilseeds     -        Groundnut                                1,275
Soyabean                                1,230
Mustard                                 1,725
/a Production of breeder seed is done by a number of agricultural
universities in different locations, and information on production
and processing costs are not readily available. Consequently, the
procurement price paid by NSC for breeder seed is used as a proxy,
as it is generally assumed that these prices reflect actual variable
costs of production and processing. The labor involved are valued
at market rates.



-75-
ANNEX XIII
Tabl e 6
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Justification
Area Planted and Additional Labor Requirements
Arising from the Incremental Certified Seed Production
by the Seed Corporations
Incremental                                              Cost of Addl.
Seed                                    Addl. Labor      Labor Require.
Production   Seed Rate  Area Planted  Requirement /a  Per Ton of Seed
Crop        ('000 tons)   (Kg/Ha)    ('000 Ha)    ('000 Mandays3  Produced /b
Wheat           10.70         100        107            107              100
Rice            18.00          25        720            720              400
Maize            2.20          20        110           11               500
Jowar            1.80          15        120            120              667
Bajra            1.80           5        360            360            2,000
Grams           12.90         50         258            258              200
Groundnut       12.10         125         97             97               80
Soyabean         5.60         50         112            112              200
Mustard          1.60           5        320            320            2,000
Total           66.70         -        2,204          2,204              -
/a  Additional labor requirements have been estimated at one manday per
hectare annually.
/b Harvest labor costs were estimated at Rs. 10 per manday.



-76-,
ANNEX XIII
Table 7
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Certification Costs for Certified Seeds /a
Cost                     Cost
Crop                          Per Ha                   Per Ton
Cereals     -    Wheat                  70                      3.50
Rice                   85                      0.85
Maize                 150                      1.67
Jowar                 150                      2.24
Bajra                 150                      1.11
Pulses      -    cram                   70                      1.75
Oilseeds    -    Groundnut              85                     14.17
Soyabean               70                      3.50
Mustard                70                      0.40
/a  Seed Certification costs are based on the charges levied by the
Karnataka Seed Certification Agency which breaks even. Certification
costs are estimated as inspection fee + 10 percent to cover for
growout tests, etc.



/uarOl/s4ag/pachars/INO/Seeds3/anxl3.tab6/5/27/88/revisions
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Analvs1s
t988      1989       1990         1991       1992         1993        1994        1995       1996      1997-2004
A. Incrementol 8nef it.t
Total Value of Incre-        -         -          -          86,688.0  173,375.0   260,063.0  346,751.0  433.439.0  520,126.0  606.814.0
mental Production
8. Incremental Costs
Total Investments Costs         -        -         68,036.0    68,036.0   68,036.0    66,036.0   66.036.0   68,036.0   6,0386.0           -
Total Recurrent Costs          -         -          3,109.0     3.109.0    3.109.0       3,109.0    3.109.0    3.109.0    3.109.0         -
Operating Costs Certified      -         -         36.755.0    73,610.0  110,265.0   147,020.0  183,775.0  220.530.0  257.285.0  257.285.0
See"
Operatino Costs Foundation    -        2,865.0      6.730.0     8.595.0   11,460.0    14.325.0   17.190.0   20.055.0   20.055.0   20.055.0
Operating Costs 8roeder       942.0   1.884.0       2,826.0     3.768.0    4.710.0       8.652.0    6,594.0    6.594.0    6.594.0    6,594.0
S"do
Labor Cost                     -          -         3,231.0     6,462.0    9,693.0    12,924.0   16,155.0   19.386.0   22,617.0   22.617.0
Certification Cost             -          -           570.0      1.140.0    1,710.0      2,280.0    2.850.0    3.420.0    3.990.0    3,990.0
Repair* and tointenance        -                    2 2.202.0    2.02.0    2.202.0       2.202.0    2.202.0    2.202.0    2 202 0         -
Total Incremental Costs                4.74§.0  -122.459.0  -1822.   21t.185.0   255S480  299.9 0  343.332.0                          313.8&40   .
C. Net Benefits
Not enefito                  -942.0  -4,749.0  -122.459.0  - 80.134.0   -37.810.0  - 4,51S.0   46,840.0   90.107.0  136.236.0  296.273.0
Internal Rate* of Retue-n of Not Stream
MTOT                 32.72%



-78-
ANNEX XIV
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Project File
I. Project File A
Al. Consolidated Project Report, Department of Agriculture and
Cooperation, New Delhi, March 1986.
A2. Andhra Pradesh Project Report, October 1986.
A3.  Assam Project Report, January 1986, and revised proposals,
September 1986
A4. Bihar Project Report (Undated)
AS. Gujarat Project Report, November 1986.
A6. Karnataka Project Report, January 1986.
A7. Maharashtra Project Report, October 1986.
A8. Madhya Pradesh Project Report, December, 1985.
A9. Orissa Project Report, February 1986.
A10. Rajasthan Project Report, 1986.
All. Uttar Pradesh Project Report, February 1986.
A12. West Bengal Project Report, January 1986.
A13. North Eastern States Project Report, January 1987.
A14. National Seeds Corporation Project Report, October 1986.
A15. State Farm Corporation of India Project Report, May 1987.
II. Project File B (Printed Project Files)
- Detailed Cost Tables



INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Impementat n Schedule
.  Po                                                                                            .                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~PogcY
Imp          '1         1         2                    3                    4                    5                    6
______ ______         ______             _        _-                                                        - _-     _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _        
Appoinftment d Cawai"nI
for NSC a-d 3 SSCs
Caompstion of Con_ t_nt
Re4s&ActmoPlonsfor NSC&3S SZs
CrowItion at Conultant
Reviews & Action Plans for 2 mare SSC
Caoption d Coaito_
RavW*t & Action Pls for3 mnoe SSCs
Comlto atConmt                                                          ___ nt                                        ._                                    __
RQAes& Acllo Plas by Realnt  SSC,
DWxasementof fOWarn                                            1st I2n)                                                      3ld
cw4TcR9t
cWC"i IA & Loan Dwmop'nut 
Procuremnent of Equlpment &VoNhkss
VAREIY OELOMCENA
ProcumnW of Equipment
CI mk  Swim                                                                                                           71    I                   I =I=I =-=     = 
BREEDER & FOUNDATION SED PRODUCTION
CMa VVbt& Form Osveiopmenyt
PI ourent of Equ4xnmnt & Vehxces_
SEED MO REGULATION& QKAU CONTROL
Procurement orf Equoraent
SM CLEA1NG CN FARMER FRD
Psocuemen tof Equipment
MCnSuJtoP%V S_eNG=EN
WoWBdmo*-40M2



IBRD 19960R
RD CHIN A SSO
PAKISTAN                    \                                           PR         AT
NEPAL          '~~    IK
1.~agto  HtTAN
BANGLADESH
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS  2Nrcr NatonaNlc Seds iProfec
'VV~~~~~~~~~~~~j    Seon dNotonlSed Proec
| \_\ ~~~(                              '-4  ..lrad
Codn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Y    2 V/*||                      -
KIL*~BS0   100 soo  30  40   3RALA          h   ( .v  t
MnEso   100    200    300         \M                       X<                      heac  nnTqCpd
;&5   \     ^~-           St t Uion Territory flooudon
LANKA }-1                            1
70__                        .        ..    _T_                      NA. .                    PROJECT
hlAY 1988



