Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1952 IN
                  (Third National Seeds Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 22, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 22,  1988, between INDIA, acting by
its  President  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association  and  the  States  of  Andhra  Pradesh,  Assam, Bihar,
Gujarat,  Karnataka,  Madhya  Pradesh,  Orissa,  Rajasthan,  Uttar
Pradesh and West Bengal  (the  States  Agreement), the said States
have each agreed to  undertake  certain  obligations in respect of
the carrying out of the Project;
     (C)  by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association  and  the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and Rural
Development (NABARD) (the NABARD  Agreement)  NABARD has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in  respect  of  the carrying out of
the Project; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Andhra Pradesh" means  the  State  of Andhra Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereto;
     (b)  "Assam" means the State of  Assam,  a State of India, or
any successor thereto;
     (c)  "Bihar"  means the State of  Bihar, a State of India, or
any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Gujarat" means the State of  Gujarat, a State of India,
or any successor thereto;
     (e)  "Karnataka" means the  State  of  Karnataka,  a State of
India, or any successor thereto;
     (f)  "Madhya Pradesh" means  the  State  of Madhya Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereto;
     (g)  "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a State of India, or
any successor thereto;
     (h)  "Rajasthan" means the  State  of  Rajasthan,  a State of
India, or any successor thereto;
     (i)  "Uttar Pradesh"  means  the  State  of  Uttar Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereto;
     (j)  "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal, a State of
India, or any successor thereto;
     (k)  "the  States"  means   Andhra   Pradesh,  Assam,  Bihar,
Gujarat,  Karnataka,  Madhya  Pradesh,  Orissa,  Rajasthan,  Uttar
Pradesh, West Bengal and any  other  State with which the Borrower
has  entered  into   an   agreement,   on   terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to  the  Association,  for  the  carrying  out of the
Project, including any successors to any of them;
     (l)  "State" means, as the  context  may  require, any one of
the States referred to in sub-paragraph (k) of this Section;
     (m)  "NABARD" means  the  National  Bank  for Agriculture and
Rural Development,  a  statutory  corporation  established in 1982
under the laws of the  Borrower  pursuant to the National Bank for
Agriculture and  Rural  Development  Act,  1981,  or any successor
thereto;
     (n)  "NSC" means the  National  Seeds  Corporation Limited, a
company established in  1963  under  the Borrower's Companies Act,
1956, or any successor thereto;
Page  3
     (o)  "States Agreement" means  the  Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association  and the States, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
     (p)  "NABARD Agreement" means  the  Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association  and NABARD, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
     (q)  "SSC" means, in  relation  to:  (i)  Andhra Pradesh, the
Andhra Pradesh State  Seeds  Development  Corporation; (ii) Assam,
the Assam State Seeds  Corporation;  (iii)  Bihar, the Bihar Rajya
Beej Nigam; (iv)  Gujarat,  the  Gujarat  State Seeds Corporation;
(v) Karnataka, the Karnataka  State Seeds Corporation; (vi) Madhya
Pradesh, the Madhya  Pradesh  Rajya  Beej  Evam  Farm Vikas Nigam;
(vii)  Orissa,  the   Orissa   State   Seeds  Corporation;  (viii)
Rajasthan,  the  Rajasthan  State  Seeds  Corporation;  (ix) Uttar
Pradesh,  the   Uttar   Pradesh   Seeds   and   Tarai  Development
Corporation; (x) West Bengal,  the  West Bengal Seeds Corporation;
and (xi) any other State with  which the Borrower has entered into
the agreement referred to  in  paragraph  (k)  of this Section, an
entity identified as such by  agreement between the Borrower, such
State and the  Association,  including any successors respectively
to any of them;
     (r)  "PSC"  means  private   seeds   corporation,  being  any
company incorporated under the Borrower's Companies Act, 1956, the
majority of the shares of  which  are owned by private individuals
or private companies and  which  is  engaged in the seed industry,
including the development, production and distribution of seeds;
     (s)  "ICAR"  means   the   Indian   Council  of  Agricultural
Research, or any successor thereto;
     (t)  "Agricultural  Universities"  means  (A)  Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University, Rajendranagar,  Andhra Pradesh; (B) Assam
Agricultural University, Jorhat,  Assam; (C) Rajendra Agricultural
University,  Patna,  Bihar;  (D)  Birsa  Agricultural  University,
Ranchi, Bihar; (E) Gujarat  Agricultural University, Sardar Krishi
Nagar,  Gujarat;   (F)   University   of   Agricultural  Sciences,
Bangalore, Karnataka;  (G)  University  of  Agricultural Sciences,
Dharwar, Karnataka; (H) Jawaharlal  Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya,
Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh; (I) Orissa University of Agriculture and
Technology, Bhubaneswar, Orissa; (J) Sukhadia University, Udaipur,
Rajasthan; (K) Chandra Shekar  Azad  University of Agriculture and
Technology,  Kanpur,  Uttar  Pradesh;   (L)  Govind  Ballabh  Pant
University  of  Agriculture   and   Technology,  Pantnagar,  Uttar
Pradesh; (M) Narendra Deva University of Agriculture & Technology,
Faizabad,  Uttar  Pradesh;   (N)   Bidhan  Chandra  Krishi  Vishwa
Vidyalaya,  Haringhatta,   West   Bengal;   and   (O)  such  other
Agricultural University as may  be designated by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association;
     (u)  "Agricultural  University"   means   any   one   of  the
Universities listed in Section 1.02 (t) above;
     (v)  "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
     (w)  "SFCI" means State Farms Corporation of India Limited, a
company established in  1969  under  the Borrower's Companies Act,
1956;
     (x)  "truthfully labelled seed"  means  any  seed labelled as
such under the Borrower's Seeds Act, 1966 (No. 54 of 1966);
     (y)  "breeder  seed"  means  seed   of  high  genetic  purity
produced from nucleus seed;
     (z)  "foundation seed" means progeny of breeder seed or first
generation foundation seed  produced  to statutory quality control
standards;
Page  4
     (aa) "certified  seed"  means   progeny  of  foundation  seed
produced to statutory quality control standards;
     (bb) "CSCB"  means  the   Central  Seed  Certification  Board
established  under  the  Borrower's  Seeds  (Amendment)  Act, 1972
(No. 55 of 1972);
     (cc) "SSCA" means the  Seed  Certification  Agency of each of
the States or its equivalent;
     (dd) "sub-project" means an investment  project to be carried
out or being carried out by NSC, SFCI,  a SSC or a PSC for which a
sub-loan is made or proposed  to  be  made by a Participating Bank
under Part A of the Project;
     (ee) "sub-loan" means a loan to finance a sub-project made or
proposed to be made by a Participating Bank to NSC, SFCI, a SSC or
a PSC which is, or is proposed  to be, refinanced by NABARD out of
the proceeds  of  the  Credit  made  available  to  NABARD  by the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (ff) "sub-borrower" means a borrower of a sub-loan;
     (gg) "Action  Plan   Implementation   Agreement"   means  the
Agreement referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of the NABARD Agreement;
     (hh) "PMU"  means  the  Project  Management  Unit established
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
     (ii) "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (jj) the sign "Rs" means rupees in the currency of India.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one hundred  and  eight million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 108,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  June  30, 1995
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Page  5
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing  November  15,  1998  and  ending  May  15,  2023. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2008  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out,  or cause to be
Page  6
carried out, the Project with  due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity    with    appropriate    administrative,    financial,
agricultural  and  engineering   practices,   and  shall  provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
obligations under this Development  Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause the States  and  NABARD  to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the  States  Agreement  and the NABARD Agreement
all the obligations therein respectively set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all  actions,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the States and  NABARD  to perform such obligations, and
shall not take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  Except  as  the  Borrower   and  the  Association  shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall  make available SDR 3,400,000
equivalent out of the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  to the States in
accordance  with   the   Borrower's   standard   arrangements  for
development assistance to the States of India and its agencies, to
be passed on  by  the  States  to  their respective Departments of
Agriculture, Agricultural Universities and  SSCAs in amounts to be
agreed between the Borrower,  the  Association and each respective
State, in accordance with standard arrangements of such States for
the passing of such funds.
     (d)  Except  as  the  Borrower   and  the  Association  shall
otherwise agree, for the  purposes  of refinancing sub-loans under
Part A of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall relend SDR 21,647,000
equivalent to NABARD out  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and NABARD on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  establish a Project
Management Unit  (PMU)  which  shall  bear  responsibility for the
coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause ICAR to carry out Part B (1) of
the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall  cause  NSC and SFCI to take
all  necessary  steps  (i)  to  duly  carry  out  the  Action Plan
Implementation Agreement to  which  it  is  a  party;  and (ii) in
respect of NSC, to enable  and  cause  each  SSC in which NSC is a
shareholder  to  duly  implement  the  Action  Plan Implementation
Agreement to which such SSC  is  a party including, in particular,
the key elements set out  in  Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall  cause  NSC and SFCI, at the
request of the Association, to exchange views with the Association
with regard to  the  progress  of  the  Project  and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
Page  7
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  continue to encourage the
growth of a viable seed  industry  including the private sector by
continuing to provide NSC  and  SFCI  with adequate managerial and
financial autonomy and taking  action,  where necessary, to ensure
that NSC and SFCI  are  operated  on a financially self-sufficient
basis.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall take action where necessary
to  ensure  that  the  marketing  of  seeds  by  NSC  and  SFCI is
undertaken in a coordinated and economical manner.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any State  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of its
obligations under the States  Agreement  or the agreement referred
to in Section 1.02 (l) of this Agreement;
Page  8
     (b)  NABARD  shall  have  failed   to   perform  any  of  its
obligations under the NABARD Agreement;
     (c)  any party  to  an  Action  Plan Implementation Agreement
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder;
     (d)  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that: (i) a  State  will be able to perform its
obligations under the States  Agreement  or the agreement referred
to in Section 1.02(l) of this  Agreement; (ii) NABARD will be able
to perform its obligations  under  the  NABARD Agreement; or (iii)
any party to an Action  Plan Implementation Agreement will be able
to perform its obligations thereunder;
     (e)  NABARD shall  have  become  unable  to  pay  any  of its
respective debts as they mature  or any action or proceeding shall
have been taken by NABARD or by others whereby any of the property
of NABARD shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
     (f)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NABARD, NSC, SFCI or any of the SSCs or for the suspension
of the operations of NABARD, NSC, SFCI or any of the SSCs.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified  in  paragraphs  (a),  (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after  notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed and delivered on  behalf  of the Borrower and NABARD
respectively.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the States  Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and  delivered  on behalf of each of the
States,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  each  of  the  States in
accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the NABARD  Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and  delivered  on behalf of, NABARD and
is legally binding upon NABARD in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower  and NABARD and is legally
binding upon NABARD in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O4. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which the Development Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on the
Page  9
date  fifteen  (15)  years  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Secretary  or  any  Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs  in  the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECOFAIRS                        953-313546
                New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          INDIA
                          By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ S. J. Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  10
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Financing by               21,600,000       100% of amount
     NABARD of sub-                              financed by
     loans made by                               NABARD
     Participating
     Banks under
     Part A of the
     Project
(2)  Goods                       5,000,000
     (a) For Part B                              100% of foreign
         (except Part B(4))                      expenditures;
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 70% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
     (b) For Part B(4)                           100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures; and
                                                 70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Works                      1,200,000        70% of local
                                                 expenditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  For Part C:               79,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
     Agricultural
     inputs (including
     pesticides);
     veterinary
     medicines;
     animal feed;
     and petroleum
     and petroleum
     products
(5)  Consultants'               1,200,000        100%
     services and
     training
                            ______________
         TOTAL                108,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this   Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
Page  11
     (a)  no withdrawals shall be  made  from  Category (4) in the
table in paragraph 1 of  this  Schedule unless: (i) the consultant
to the PMU has been appointed;  and (ii) the review referred to in
Section 2.04 (c) of the  NABARD Agreement has commenced in respect
of NSC and at least three SSCs;
     (b)  no withdrawals shall be  made  from  Category (4) in the
table in paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  exceeding the amount of
SDR 29,000,000 equivalent unless:  (i)  the respective Action Plan
Implementation   Agreements   are   being   implemented   to   the
satisfaction of the Association  in  respect  of  NSC and the SSCs
referred to in paragraph 3(a)(ii)  of  this Schedule; and (ii) the
review referred to in Section  2.04  (c)  of the NABARD  Agreement
has commenced in respect of at  least five SSCs in addition to the
SSCs referred to in paragraph 3 (a)(ii) of this Schedule; and
     (c)  no withdrawals shall be  made  from  Category (4) in the
table in paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  exceeding the amount of
SDR 54,300,000 equivalent unless:  (i)  the respective Action Plan
Implementation   Agreements   are   being   implemented   to   the
satisfaction of the Association in respect  of NSC and each of the
SSCs referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule; and (ii) the
review referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of the NABARD Agreement has
commenced, or has been  completed,  in  respect  of all SSCs which
have received, or will receive, sub-loans under the Project.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 2,200,000  may  be  made  from  Category  (1) on account of
payments  made  for  expenditures   before  that  date  but  after
September 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  main  objective  of  the   Project  is  to  support  the
Borrower's efforts to assist Indian farmers by ensuring timely and
adequate availability of  quality  seeds  of suitable varieties at
economical prices by the  expansion  and modernization of the seed
industry.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Expansion and Modernization of the Seed Industry
     Provision  of  loans  through  participating  banks  for  the
establishment and improvement of breeder and foundation seed farms
and  processing  plants,  certified  seed  processing  and storage
facilities owned  and  operated  by  selected  public  and private
sector seed corporations,  as  well  as  carrying out research and
development activities associated with  variety development by the
private sector seed industry.
Part B:   Productivity Improvement
1.   Variety Development
     Further strengthening  of  the  management  of  public sector
variety  development  activities  under   the  auspices  of  ICAR,
including the system of varietal testing, evaluation and release.
2.   Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
     Provision  of  support  for  the  production  of  breeder and
foundation seeds by Agricultural Universities.
Page  12
3.   Seed Industry Regulation and Quality Control
     Establishment and strengthening  of agencies and laboratories
responsible for certification  and  quality control and regulation
of the seed industry.
4.   Promotion of On-Farm Seed Multiplication
     Promotion of on-farm seed  multiplication by the provision of
seed cleaning plants for installation in selected seed farms.
5.   Technical Assistance to NSC, SFCI, SSCs and PSCs
     Provision of  (a)  consultants'  services  for  improving the
financial and general  management  systems  and procedures of NSC,
SFCI and SSCs; and (b)  training  for selected staff of NSC, SFCI,
SSCs and PSCs.
Part C:   Strengthening of NSC, SFCI and SSCs
     Enhancing the efficiency of production and marketing of seeds
by  orienting  the  operations  of  NSC,  SFCI  and  SSCs  towards
financial   self-sufficiency,    strengthening   their   financial
structure and operating procedures  and continuing to assure their
managerial autonomy.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and  works  under  Part  A of the Project
estimated to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of $5,000,000 per
contract,  may  be  awarded  on   the  basis  of  the  established
commercial practices of the purchaser of such goods, acceptable to
the Association.
2.   Subject to paragraph 3 of  Part  B hereof, goods estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of  $200,000  per contract and works
under Part  B  of  the  Project  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items or group  of  items  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $15,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be procured under
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Under Part C of the Project, subject to the prior approval of
the Association, (i) commonly  traded  commodities may be procured
through  organized  international   commodity  markets,  or  other
channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Association,
Page  13
in accordance with procedures  acceptable  to the Association, and
(ii) contracts for goods estimated  to cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each may  be  awarded  on  the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the  purchaser  of such goods acceptable
to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish  to the Association, prior to
the submission to  the  Association  of  the first application for
withdrawal of funds from  the  Credit  Account  in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective  bids  and recommendations for award, a
description of the  advertising  and tendering procedures followed
and such other  information  as  the  Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish  to the Association, prior to
the submission to  the  Association  of  the first application for
withdrawal of funds from  the  Credit  Account in respect thereof,
such  documentation  and   information   as  the  Association  may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2 of
Part C of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be
made out of the  proceeds  of  the  Special Account, the copies of
such contract  or  the  documentation  and  the  information to be
furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule, as the case
may be, shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence  required  under  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement.
4.   The provisions of  the  preceding  paragraphs  1,  2 and 3 of
Part C of this Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Association has  authorized  withdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
5.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
as  agreed  between  the   Borrower   and  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures agreed between the Borrower  and the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                  Key Principles to be Reflected
             in Action Plan Implementation Agreements
1.   NSC,  SFCI  and  SSCs  shall  continue  to  have  autonomy in
pricing, production and management decisions.
2.   NSC, SFCI and SSCs  shall  progressively phase out dependence
on government financial support  (excluding equity investments and
funds required for undertaking specific government schemes) within
a  period  to  be   designated   in   the  concerned  Action  Plan
Implementation Agreement.
3.   NSC,  SFCI   and   SSCs   shall   operationalize  appropriate
Page  14
management information systems and  accounting procedures within a
period  to   be   designated   in   the   concerned   Action  Plan
Implementation Agreement.
4.   NSC, SFCI and SSCs shall adjust staff strengths to economical
levels, with necessary changes in staff levels to be achieved over
a  period  to  be   designated   in   the  concerned  Action  Plan
Implementation Agreement.
5.   The financial restructuring of each  NSC, SFCI and SSC should
be completed within a  period  to  be  designated in the concerned
Action Plan Implementation Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
     The following initial terms and conditions for lending of the
proceeds of the Credit shall  be  subject to such modifications as
may be agreed between the  Borrower  and the Association from time
to time:
I.   Onlending from
     Borrower to NABARD
     Interest Rate:                          7 percent per annum.
     Amortization Period:                    lump sum repayment of
                                             entire principal in
                                             not more than 15
                                             years.
II.  Relending from NABARD to
     Participating Banks
     Amount Refinanced:                      80% of each sub-loan
                                             made by Participating
                                             Banks.
     Interest Rate:                          8 percent per annum.
     Amortization Period:                    15 years including
                                             3 years' grace
                                             for interest and
                                             principal.
III. Sub-loans from Participating
     Banks to NSC, SFCI, SSCs and PSCs
     (Sub-loans to finance up to  80%  of investment costs of each
sub-project including working capital requirements)
     Interest Rate:                          12.5 percent per
                                             annum.
     Amortization Period:                    15 years including
                                             up to 3 years' grace
                                             on interest and
                                             principal.
IV.  Security
     Security shall  be  in  accordance  with arrangements entered
into  between  Participating  Banks  and  NABARD  consistent  with
NABARD's normal requirements for this purpose.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
Page  15
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5)  set  forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  3,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the   eligible  Categories  for  the
               Project,  minus  the   amount  of  any  outstanding
               special commitment entered  into by the Association
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to the Project,  shall be equal to the
Page  16
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for the  Project  shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
