Page  1
                                             December 6, 1991
The Secretary to the Government
  of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi 110001
India
          Re:  Credit 1952-IN
               (Third National Seeds Project)
               Amendment
Dear Sir:
     Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated December 22,
1988 (hereinafter the "Development Credit Agreement") between India and
the International Development Association (hereinafter the "Association")
for the above-referenced project.
     In response to your request and the discussions between our
respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the
Association agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
     1.   Section 1.02 (r) is amended in its entirety to read as
follows:
          "(r) "PSC" means private seeds company or cooperative, and
          includes any other private business entity or enterprise,
          that is authorized, under the borrower's laws and
          regulations, to engage in the seed industry, including the
          development, production and distribution of seeds;"
     2.   The words "including those for the Special Account" as appear
in Section 4.01 (b) (i) are deleted.
     3.   The words "six months" appearing in the second line of
Section 4.01 (b)(ii) are deleted and the following substituted therefor
"nine months".
     4.   Section 4.01 (c) (i) is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
          "(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
          sound accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting
          such expenditures;".
     5.   A new paragraph (d) is inserted in Section 4.01 to read as
follows:
          "(d) The Borrower shall have the Special Account for each
          fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
          principles consistently applied by independent auditors
          acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association,
          as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
          months after the end of each such year a certified copy of
          the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
          in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
          requested."
     6.   The provision relating to "Amount Refinanced" under paragraph
II of schedule 5 (Relending from NABARD to Participating Banks) is
amended in its entirety to read as follows:
          "Amount Refinanced:      Not more than 80% of each sub-
                                   loan made by participating
                                   Banks."
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
Page  2
and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment may
be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
This amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter upon
receipt by the Association of one fully executed original of this
amendment.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            By:
                        Heinz Vergin
                          Director
                Country Department II, India
                      South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By:  /s/ Shri Neeraj Prasad
Date:February 3, 1992
