Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1952 IN
                  (Third National Seeds Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                                and
                          STATE OF ASSAM
                                and
                          STATE OF BIHAR
                                and
                         STATE OF GUJARAT
                                and
                        STATE OF KARNATAKA
                                and
                      STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                                and
                          STATE OF ORISSA
                                and
                        STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                                and
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                                and
                       STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                      Dated December 22, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1952 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  22,  1988  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the States of ANDHRA
PRADESH, ASSAM, BIHAR, GUJARAT,  KARNATAKA,        MADHYA PRADESH,
ORISSA, RAJASTHAN,  UTTAR  PRADESH  and  WEST  BENGAL (hereinafter
collectively referred to  as  "the  States"  and severally in each
case as "the State").
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to one
hundred and eight  million  six  hundred  thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 108,600,000) on the  terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement,  provided that each State agrees
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (B)  by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association  and  the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and Rural
Development (NABARD) (the NABARD  Agreement), NABARD has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in  respect  of  the carrying out of
the Project; and
     WHEREAS each  State,  in  consideration  of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Each  State  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   administrative,   financial,  engineering  and
agricultural  practices,  and  shall   provide,  or  cause  to  be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Each  State  shall  take  all  such  steps  as  shall be
necessary to assist the Borrower,  NABARD and SSCs in carrying out
their respective obligations under the Project.
     (c)  Each  State  shall  take  all  steps  necessary  to make
available the proceeds of  the  Credit  provided to it pursuant to
Section 3.01  (c)  of  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, to its
respective Department  of  Agriculture,  Agricultural Universities
and SSCA in accordance with  standard arrangements for the passing
of such funds.
     Section 2.02. Each State  shall  take  all necessary steps to
(i) duly carry  out  the  Action  Plan Implementation Agreement to
which it is a party; and  (ii)  enable and cause the concerned SSC
to  duly  implement  the   Action  Plan  Implementation  Agreement
including, in particular, the key  elements  set out in Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  Each  State  shall  continue  to implement its
policy to encourage the growth of a viable seed industry including
the private sector.
     Section  2.04.  The  States   shall  cause  their  respective
Agricultural Universities to carry out Part B (2) of the Project.
     Section 2.05.  For  the  purpose  of  enforcing  minimum seed
quality control standards  under  the  applicable laws, each State
shall carry out adequate seed quality inspection.
     Section 2.06.  Each  State  shall  cause  its  SSC, SSCA and,
where relevant and  in  respect  of  the  production of seeds, its
Agricultural Universities, to  separately  prepare  and furnish to
the Association: (i) an annual work program by the commencement of
their respective  financial  years;  and  (ii)  bi-annual progress
reports within two months of the close of each semester.
Page  3
     Section  2.07.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The States shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Parts A and B of the Project.
     Section 2.09. (a) Each  State  shall,  at  the request of the
Association,  exchange  views   and   cause   its  SSC,  SSCA  and
Agricultural University to  exchange  views,  with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Each State shall promptly  inform the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  each State of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  Each  State  shall  maintain and cause its
SSC, SSCA  and  Agricultural  University  to  maintain records and
accounts adequate  to  monitor  and  record  the  progress  of the
Project and reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
     (b)  Each State shall:
          (i)  have its records  and  accounts,  and  those of the
               concerned SSC,  SSCA  and  Agricultural University,
               referred to in paragraph  (a)  of this Section, for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of  each  such  year  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of the  States  thereunder  shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
Page  4
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
each State of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Andhra Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Andhra Pradesh
          Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India
     For Assam:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Assam
          Gauhati 781006, Assam, India
     For Bihar:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Bihar
          Patna, Bihar, India
     For Gujarat:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Gujarat
          Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India
     For Karnataka:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Karnataka
          Bangalore, India
Page  5
     For Madhya Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Madhya Pradesh
          Bhopal, India
     For Orissa:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Orissa
          Bhubaneswar, India
     For Rajasthan:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Rajasthan
          Jaipur, India
     For Uttar Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Uttar Pradesh
          Vidhan Bhavan
          Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India
     For West Bengal:
          Chief Secretary,
          Writer's Building
          Government of West Bengal
          Calcutta, West Bengal, India
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any State,  may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary  or such other  person or persons as the concerned
State shall designate in  writing,  and  the concerned State shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ S. J. Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE Of ANDHRA PRADESH
                    STATE OF ASSAM
                    STATE OF BIHAR
                    STATE OF GUJARAT
                    STATE OF KARNATAKA
                    STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                    STATE OF ORISSA
                    STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                    STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Page  6
                    AND
                    STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
