OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1952 IN
Project Agreement
(Third National Seeds Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1_                           1988as


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1952 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    3)enw4dvo<       2.7-      , 1988 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (NABARD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 108,600,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, provided that NABARD agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
(B) by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar,
Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar
Pradesh and West Bengal (collectively called the States) (the
States Agreement) the said States have each agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NABARD, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to NABARD on the terms and conditions to be set
forth in caid Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NABARD, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NABARD declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineeringianU&Ragricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) "NABARD shall take all such steps as shall be necessary
to assist the Borrower, the States, NSC, SFCI and SSCs in the
carrying out of their respective obligations under the Project.
(c) NABARD shall on-lend the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to, and shall otherwise undertake the financing of sub-loans
made by, the Participating Banks in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association including those set out
in Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(d) NABARD shall exercise its rights under the arrangements
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section in such manner as to
(i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and
NABARD; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
NABARD shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.03. Each sub-loan shall have been made by such
Participating Banks as shall comply with criteria agreed between
the Association and NABARD.
Section 2.04. (a) NABARD shall take necessary steps to ensure
that prior to any SSC receiving a sub-loan an Action Plan
Implementation Agreement shall have been duly executed and
delivered between such SSC, the concerned State and NSC (where NSC


﻿-3-
is a shareholder of such SSC) for strengthening the financial and
organizational structure of such SSC.
(b) NABARD shall take necessary steps to ensure that prior
to NSC or SFCI receiving a sub-loan an Action Plan Implementation
Agreement shall have been duly executed and delivered between the
Borrower and NSG or SFCI as the case may be.
(c) The Action Plan Implementation Agreement referred to in
Section 2.04 (a) and (b) above of this agreement shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, shall be based
on the respective action plan developed pursuant to the review of
the organizational and financial structure of the concerned sub-
borrower by consultants engaged under the Project and shall duly
incorporate the key principles set forth in Schedule 4 to the
Development Credi.t Agreement.
Section 2.05. Subject to Section 2.04 of this Agreement, each
sub-loan financed by,NABARD shall be in respect of sub-projects
which: (a) shall first have been appraised by the concerned
Participating Bank in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association; and (b) satisfy criteria satisfactory to the
Association including:
(i) a projected financial rate of return on equity of
at least twelve percent (12%);
(ii) an investment cash flow supportable by the sub-
borrower'.   existing and projected financial
position;
(iii) appropriate technical, managerial, financial and
marketing arrangements; and
(iv) appropriate arrangements for the insurance of
facilities owned by the sub-borrower.
Section 2.06. NABARD shall submit reports of such appraisals
of sub-projects by Participating Banks as may reasonably be
requested by the Association from time to time, for review by the
Association.
Section 2.07. (a) NABARD shall take necessary steps to cause
sub-borrowers supported under the Project to: (i) have their


﻿-4-
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to NABARD as soon as available, and except as NABARD
shall otherwise agree, not later than six months after the end of
each such year certified copies of the reports of such audit of
the financial statements of said sub-borrowers by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as NABARD shall have reasonably
requested.
(b) NABARD shall furnish to the Association such information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of sub-borrowers
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.09. NABARD shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.10. NABARD S'all duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NABARD shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) NABARD shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) NABARD shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the


﻿5-
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by NABARD of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NABARD
Section 3.01. NABARD shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial, agricultural and engineering practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NABARD shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NABARD shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project (and of
each sub-project including its cost and the benefit derived from
it) and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
(b) NABARD shall:
(i) have its records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Associatibn as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit _thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably 2
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NABARD thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in adcordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NABARD of this event.
Section 5,03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-7-
specified or at such other addresilas such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addreises so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.G. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NABARD:
National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development
Sterling Center, Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay-300018
Cable address:                   Telex:
AGREFINANS                     11-73770 NABIN
BOMBAY, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitte6 ino be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NABARD may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as NABARD shall
designate in writing, and NABARD shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AjA 5  Regional Vice President
Asia
NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true Copy
of the original in the archives of the International
DevelopmenC Association.
FOR SECRETARY


