Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10746
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
JUNE 17, 1992
Infrastructure Sector Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Weights and Measures
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDRJ               Companhia Docas do Rio de Janeiro (Rio de Janeiro State Port Authority)
CODESI             Comissdo de Desenvolvimento Institucional (Institutional Development
Commission (of PORTOBRAS) - the Project Management Unit)
CODESP             Companhia Docas do Estado de Sdo Paulo (Sao Paulo State Port Authority)
DNTA               Departamento Nacional de TransportesAquavidrios (National Department of
Waterway Transport)
GOB                Government of Brazil
INPH               Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Hidrovidrias (Waterways Research Institute)
MINFRA             Ministlrio de Infra-estrutura (Ministry of Infrastructure)
MOP                Memorandum of the President
PORTOBRAS          Empresa de Portos do Brasil S.A. (Brazil Ports Holding Company)
SNT                Secretaria Nacional de Transportes (National Transport Secretariat of
MINFRA)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLL) BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directtw.cea I
Operat;ns Evaluation
June 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil Port Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2941-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil Port Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2941-
BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTAI4CE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ..................................................    i
EVALUATIONSUMMARY  .                  ........................................
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...... .. ..........
A.  roiect Idtfind   .....................................
B. Background ................................................  1
Sector Development Objectives ..................................  1
Institutional Context .    ........................................   2
Linkages betwecn project, sector and macro-policy objectives  ...............  3
C. Project Obiectives and Description  ..................................  4
Project Objectives  .....................,                                                4
Components ...............................  4
D. Project Design and Organization .           .........................                          5
E.   roject Implementation ........................   7
F.  P-rojec.t Results ...........................................    9
Dismantling of Project Management and Records   ......             ................  9
Impact of Project upon PORTOBRAS  ...........               ...................  9
Impact of Project upon the Ports ..............                                          10
Demoralization of Project Teams upon Dissolution of PORTOBRAS  ....             ....... 10
Inpact upon INPH ................................                                        11
G.  Poiect Sustainability  ..............................  11
H.  Bank Perfomname .....................................  11
I.  Borrower ftdma=   ..........                    ........................  12
J.  Poiect Relationship  ..............................  12
K. ConsultingSe...ces................................ 12
L.  Project Documentation and Data ...................................  13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
M.  Lessons of the_ExUerience  .,........................                              13
PART II - PROJECT REV FROM15ORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                      1S
PART m - STAISALINFORMAO    ..16
1. RELATED BANK LOANS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .16
2. PROJECTTIMETABLE ............................                                       21
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .21
4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS .22
5. PROJECTCOSTSANDFINANCING ............................... 23
6. PROJECT RESULTS  .......................................... 24
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS .......... 27
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES ..........                                                    27



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
PREFACE
Introducton
1.   This Project Completion Report (PCR) pertains to the Ports Technical Assistance Project in
Brazil, for which a loan in the amount of US$20.0 million equivalent was approved in May 1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, three and a half years earlier than planned. This was
due to the dissolution of PORTOBRAS, the Borrower, decreed by GOB in April 1990. The last
disbursement was on May 31, 1991. Total disbursements were US$3.7 million and US$16.3 million
were cancelled.
2.   The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Sector Operations Division of the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office Country Department I (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
As PORTOBRAS ceased to exist, no borrower PCR was prepared for the project. For this reason,
special attention was given during field work undertaken in Brazil in DNovember 1991 for PCR
preparation to contact former PORTOBRAS officials and others connected with the project and its
implementation.
3.    This PCR is based on a review of the following documentation: the Memorandum to the
President and Technical Annex; the Loan Agreement; Bank Supervision Reports; Progress Reports
produced by the Borrower and its consultants, and project audit reports. Discussions were also held
with: members of former project teams in Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro and Santos; former consultants
Ln Brazil, the United States, and Germany and Bank staff involved in the project.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Intrnduction
1.     Brazil's international trade is mainly handled by a system of 35 ports. Most of these are bulk cargo handling
facilities, but some specialize in the shipment of oil, liquid chemicals and iron ore. Rapid growth of trade put the port
system under considerable stress. Modernization, especially through the separation of port ownership and operating
responsibilities and the also expansion of containerzation, was high on the agenda of port sector  rovement and
reform.
2.      PORTOBRAS, the project implementation agency, was established in 1977 as a holding company for the eight
major port authorities. It was also given responsibility for the direct operation of some smaller ports. Despite the
agency's many shortcomings identified at appraisal, there was no viable alternative to PORTOBRAS as the project
implementation agency.
3.     In April 1990, PORTOBRAS was unexpectedly abolished by the new federal administration, leaving the
project without an implementing agency. After a long delay during which there were conflicting signals about the fate
of the project, GOB requested the canceUation of the loan. The loan was closed December 31, 1990, three and a half
years earlier than planned.
4.      A wide range of ills were diagnosed in the port system during project preparation. They included: (i)
excessive centralization; (i) poor operations and financial management; (iii) restrictive labor practices; (iv) obsolete
port legislation; (v) lack of incentives for private sector participation; and (vi) obsolete equipment. Although daunting,
these problems clearly suggested the need for a Bank financed operation, given the large scale of the Brazilia port
system and its potential impact of its increased efficiency upon the trade performance of the country.
5.      The Bank's own rationale for this project was dilated by three considerations: (i) a hiatus of more than a
decade in GOB/Bank dialogue regarding ports; (ii) a growing awareuws by port users, GOB officials and Bank staff,
nevertheless, that port inefficiencies constituted major obstacles to trade; (iii) indications in 1986 of GOB's and
PORTOBRAS management's interest in taldng a fresh look at the national port system, ics sole and function, and - most
importantly - its performance.
6.      The Bank thus found a window of opportumity to assist GOB in removing one of the major impedimens to
a good trade performance. But because of the long hiatus in port-related dialogue, the concemed parties did not kmow
each other well, and there was an initial feeling of distrust. After considerable internal debate and a series of
presentations and workshops designed to identify the main issues and options, the Bank decided to take a calculated
risk in agreeing to proceed with the preparation of a port lending operation. The obvious counterpart was
PORTOBRAS, as the constitutionally established entity to oversee the naionsl ports system, although the Bank was
aware of its inefficient practices and top heavy administration.
Proiect Backeround and Obiectives.
7.      The main objective of the proiect was to support GOB's plans to restructure the port system and to set the
stage for its modernization. D;fferent partics tc the proje:c interpreted these ob,ectives according to their own interests,
sometimes in conflicting ways. The Bank itself decided not to support investnents in specific ports, because of the
substantial regional shifts and changes in trade volumes and types of commodities moved through the national port
system, all of which required an overall assessment of each port. In short, port investments and management



iii
arrangements in Brazilian ports had to be brought in line with observed and projected trends in seabome trade and
ocean transport.
8.      This project was a relatively small lending operation in terms of the Brazilian portfolio, and was essentially
devoted to research and studies required for establishing a strategy for port development in Brazil. The latter would
provide a national framework for future Bank lending and assistance in the sector. Furthermore, there was provision
for technicAl assistance to -idress high priority need-, especially in port operations and management. More
specifically, the project conscted of tecbnical assistance through: (i) institution buildiag aimed at helping to reform port
organizaton, and measures to rationalize port systems and management as well as trasining; (iU) applied research to
strengthen the capability of lNPH (the Hydraulic Research Institute) through physical and mathematical modelling of
port structures; and (iii) engineering studies and preparation of bidding documents.
9.      By concentrating on technical assistance, the project did not respond to the principal and immediate interest
of PORTOBRAS' management, namely investments in port infrastructure and equipment. However, PORTOBRAS'
management understood that the project was an unavoidable stepping stone to a much larger port sector loan which
could include such investmnents. Institutional and financial restructuring of the port subsector was a primary objective,
but for which hie project provided only modest assistance. Studies relating to financial aspects of ports, for example,
were supported by only 7.9% of project resources. Most project res urces were instead intended for studies and
technical assistance related to port operations.
Imolementation Exerience
10.    In order to formulate a port sector strategy and identify the derived action and investmient programs, project
implementation was intended to address the following tasks sequentially: (i) a review and assessment of ongoing port
studies; (ii) identification of further research and studies needed to fill gaps identifeei in order to establish a sound
analytical basis for strategy formukation; (iii) execution of this additional research; (iv) formulation of a national port
systems development and management strategy; (v) design of necessary aejustznents to existing port master plans and
management arrangements; and (vi) preparation of investment programs and related feasibility studies for selected ports.
11.    Tasks (i) and (ii) were expeditiously and quite successfully completed. During the implementation of task (iii),
however, there were clear indications of waning interest in the project on the part of PORTOBRAS. A possible
explanation for this atitude iL that: (a) PORTOBRAS' management came to realize that a number of the findings did
not coincide with ongoing or planned investments in particular ports; and (b) there was pressure to invest in several
instances, regardless of the outcome of the strategy formulation effort. All this happened during the first half of 1989,
and by mid-year, project implementation started to flounder. In fact, without further progress in strategy formulation,
the majority of the project components lost much of their relevance.
12.    There was little awareness in the selected ports of the intended purpose of technical assistance provided under
the project, and thus there was only limited support for the consultants' activities. CODESI, the project tnanagement
unit, could have been much more active in disseminating the project, had it had better access to PORTOBRAS' top
management. Among other things, this would have ensured that _ODESI bad adequate counterpart funding to finance
travel and per diem to fulfil its nation-wide coordination responsibilities under the project.
13.    Only 18.5 % of the loan was disbursed owing to the early cancellation of the loan. The crisis brought oa by
the sudden disappearance of the borrower was traumatic for the project, but nevertheless provided experience for GOB
and the Baak in handling this kind of institutional instability.
14.    At project start-up PORTOBRAS promptly fulfilled its fornmal obligations to the Bank under the loan
agreement, including, the establishment of the project management unit, CODESI. However, PORTOBRAS top
management did not give this unit effective support. CODESI was not accommodated within PORTOBRAS' offices
and had to physically relocate three times during a fifteen month period. Furthermore, its access to top PORTOBRAS
management, necessary for decisions to approve project counterpart funding, for example, was sporadic.



iv
15.    Project consultants complained that poor working conditions in the ports and in Brasilia prevented their teams
from worling effectively. PORTOBRAS' refusal to pay per tiem and travel costs (as contracted) made the effective
management of port operation consultants in the ports by the central team in Brasilia inpossible. Lack of logistical
support such as transportation and secretarial services m the ports themselves made the consultants' tasks of data
coUection virtually impractical.
Results
16.    The impact of the project upon PORTOBRAS was disappointingly snall. The project was treated as if it were
a special program, one that was not expected to influence the agency's normal way of doing business. Modernization
themes espcused by the project aroused little qympathy among PORTOBRAS' top management.
17.    In the Port of Rio de Janeiro, the project produced a list of obsolete equipment recommended for scrapping.
No action was forthcoming on the basis of this recommendation, however. Small improvements were made to some
operations in the Port of Santos, although local staff did not atnbute them to the project.
18.    The dissolution of PORTOBRAS dealt a devastating blow to the morale of agency staff and consultants, whose
attention thereafter sbifted to administrative matters pertaining to their contracts. It is doubtfil if useful technical work
could have been achieved in these circurnstance3s. With the premature closure of the project, the project management
team was dismantled and moreover, much documentation and records were lost.
Sustainabilitv
19.    The limited resiilts achieved during project implementation (up to task (i) para. 10) became irrelevant
foUowing tha cancellation of the project. Nevertheless, many technical staff of PORTOBRAS and the ports bmnefitt-d
from their association with the Project. Although these individuals are now dispersed throughout vari-t. iublic
agencies and the private sector, they represent an important resource in Brazil that can be mobilized wh..i port
modernization programs are resumed. Although limited in scale, local training of PORTOBRAS staff and the overseas
training program of INPH staff are examples of Project actions that did bring permanent benefits to the individual
participants.
Findines and Lessons
20.    The project did not inchlde investments in infrastructure and equipment, and was thus regarded as a necessary
condition to achieve finance for such investments in a subsequent loan. PORTOBRAS' top decision makers seemed
to be willing to accommodate the project as long as the result of the studies included in the project did not propose
drastic changes to either their style of management or to the centralized organization scheme in which PORTOBRAS
operated. Technical assistance projects of this type evidently entail risks when the implementation agency considers
them just as an academic exercise required to obtain a loan for physical investments and is not willing to incorporate
institutional and operations reforms proposed in its day-to-day management and operations. The risks are particularly
high since this kind of project cannot promise to finance physical investments in retur for progress made with
institutional improvements.
21.    With hindsight, proposing technological and managerial improvements without addressing port labor restrictive
practices in Brazilian ports was, at best, very optimistic. Indeed, if the objective was to find cost-effective solutions
to lower the cost of port operations, the problem could not be solved without addressing the monopolistic and obsolete
labor practices existing in Brazil, and the need for to finance compensation for related redundancies.
22.    A project management unit without authority and an adequate budget, as was the case of CODESI, is severely
handicapped in carrying out its functions. Firm assurances must be obtained to guarantee the authority of this type of
unit and its easy and regular access to top mnragement as well as to counterpart funds.



V
23.     Whether to cancel a project or refc.rmulate it when the executing agency is dissolved and a successor is not
immediately appointed, caUs for expeditious decision making. In the case of this operation, indecision and uncertvinty
demoralized project staff and coDsultants and the proje-.t unnecessarily incurred additional financial costs.
24.     There is the need for better oversight of subcontracting arrangements under technical assistance contracts.
Draft contracts need to be reviewea carefuUy by Bank and borrower to ensure that escape clauses do allow the task
contracted to deviate from original purpose or spirit of the undertking. Also, project supervision should ensure that
subsequent adjustments to contracts do not undemiine the objectives that the task was intended to fulfil.
25.     Project objectives need to be realistic and clearly spelt cut so that there is a common understanding between
all parties concerned about the purpose of the project and what is likely to be achieved. References in the
documentation of this project to the institutional Lad financial restructuring the port sub-sector, for example, were open
to contradictory interpretatiors among the different project participants.
26.     Transfer of management know-how and technology is a twin track process, involving: (i) the introduction
locally of techniques and practides developed elsewhere; and ti) their acquisition through on-the-job training by local
staff in the places the technologies came from. The project relied heavily on the first approach, restricting on-the-job
training to experiences in the local ports. This induced local port staff to believe that they were passive targets of
technology transfer, rather than active agents in the process. The temporary assignment of operational staff of Brazilian
ports to installations overseas and the deployment of foreign port operator personnel (in addition to consultants) could
be tried as a means of technology transfer.
27.     A thorough institutional appraisal and organizational review mu-st precede putting together a technical
assistance loan of this size, especially where a major policy impact in intended. Political risk analysis ought to be part
of this appraisal. Important issues today are whether the risks involved in designating organizations such as
PORTOBRAS as executing agencies can be factored in the project design and what safeguards should be considered
to protect the projects, in case such agencies are dissolved.
28.    In spite of the difficulties, the project was a weU considered attempt, with known risks, at improving port
performance in Brazil. The neei for more efficient port development and management in Brazil is still urgent today.
The dissolution of PORTOBRAS threw the system into a quagmire of broken lines of command, haphazard budget
appropriations, and lack of guidance. Evea though most responsibilities should be decentralized as far as possible down
to level of individual ports, there is still a need for an effective and small central entity.  It should inchlde
representation of shipper interests, and maintain an overall view of trade trends and associated demand for port capacity
in the different coastal regions. Thiis would help avoid possible duplication of investments in different ports that Brzil
can ill afford.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK"'- PERSPECTIVE
A. Project IdentitV
Name                :      Port Technical Assistance P~ 'iect
Loan Number                2941-BR
RVP Unit            :      LAC
Country             :      Brazil
Subsectors          :      ports, maritime transport.
B. Background
Sector Development Objectives
1.    Brazil's international trade, some 95% of which is handled by the ports system, has grown
substantially over the past decade. In 1977 for instance, the year PORTOBRAS (the federal government
Brazil Ports Holding Company and executing agency for this project) began operations, imports and
exports by volume had reached 151.3 million tons. By 1988, the year of loan signing, the total had
increased to 227.5 million tons. Annual growth of trade by value grew by more than 6.6% per annum
over the period, against an annual GDP growth rate of only 3.5%. Coastal shipping grew even faster
at 9.6% per annum.
2.    International and coastal shipping in Brazil uses some thirty five major ports that make up one
of the largest port systems in the world. While most ports handle general cargo, a few concentrate upon
specialized operations such as the shipment of oil, liquid chemicals and iron ore.
3.    Rapid growth of cargo traffic strained Brazil's port system, particularly when public sector
resources for port investment were scarce. Although the export drive of the 1980s did successfully
generate trade surpluses, the country's archaic port practices, with high operating costs were eventually
to prove a serious obstacle o fuirher trade expansion.
4.    Modernization of Brazil's ports was and remains a priority. A recent Bank paper highlights
current thinking such as: (i) separating port control and ownership from operational responsibilities; (ii)
encouraging the "revolution" of por: operations throuZI the expansion of container handl:ng; (iii) the
inevitability of the dissolution of central port authorities; and (v) everal ways ports can be privatized.'
Port Adminisnation: Should Publi Ports bg Prvatized? by Zvi Ra'ana May 8, 1991.



2
Institutional Context
5.     To help develop a national ports policy, PORTOBRAS was established in 1977. It was the
holding company for eight major port authoritles (including Santos and Rio de Janeiro) as well as the
direct operator of other, smaller ports. ,he 1988 Constitution (Articles 21 and 22), clearly gave the
federal government exclusive responsibility for port operation and legislation. Today, port modernization
and decentralization remains on the federal government's policy agenda, but actual progress depends upon
Congressional approval of a Ports Reform Bill (No. 08/91), which has languished in Congress for nearly
one year.2
6.     At the time of appraisal, PORTOBhAS was the obvious interlocutor with whom the Bank could
discuss sector policy. In practice, though, Bank staff reported little enthusiasm by PORTOBRAS top
management for an operation jointly financed with the Bank. GOB itself, however, was to prevail upon
PORTOBRAS to prepare a sector project, seeing the Bank as a potential ally to help bring about the
reforms needed in the sector.  The Bank's own rationale for this project was dictated by three
considerations: (i) there had been a lapse of more than a decade in GOBlBa.k dialogue regarding ports;'
(ii) over the years, however, there had been a growing awareness by port users, GOB officials and Bank
staff that port inefficiencies constituted major obstacles to trade; (iii) beginning in 1986, there were
indications that GOB and PORTOBRAS management were interested in taking a fresh look at the national
port system, its role and function, and - most importantly - its performance.
7.     As part of a package of structural reforms known as the 'Collor Plan", PORTOBRAS was
abolished on April 4, 1990, shortly after President Collor took office.' Although rumored in the press
to be one of the many parastatals that could be affected by restructuring and rationalization plans, its
outright dissolution camne is a surprise even to its own top management. PORTOBRAS' inefficiencies
and top heavy administration, with more than 200 central management units, gave ammunition to those
wishing to abolish it.
8.     Today, the federal government retains responsibility for the ports system through the DNTA
(National Department of Waterway Transport) of the SNT (National Secretariat of Transport), itself under
MINFRA (Ministry of Infrastructure). The ports themselves are still operated by local port authorities,
which are expected to continue to exist. Since the dissolution of PORTOBRAS, DNTA has been fully
occupied with the day-to-day management of immediate problems such as labor strikes. GOB, in the
meantime, prepared a very broad port strategy which: (i) defined a network of strategic ports which will
qualify for federal funding; (ii) recommended port decentralization to the states and privatization of port
services; and (iii) established a cap for payroll expenses. The Port Subsector Operation and Finance
.ady, financed under this project had proposed a similar decentralization scenario (as one of three) which
2   The bill aims tt libermlizing restictive labor practices in the ports, 'jut in its present form, the proposed legis1sion
does not contemplate redundancy payments for workers laid off (as were paid in Chile, for example). For this reason,
it has faced stiff opposition from organized port labor.
3   The first and only port lending operation in Brazil had been the Santos Port Proiect (Ln 756-BR), a project of no great
distinction. According to the PCR of that project, the Bank's role was important in the creation of PORTOBRAS
(PCR para. 8.02).
Surprisingly for such an important decision, there has becn little public discussion or analysis of the pros Xnd cons of
the dissolution of PORTOBRAS. No literaturm, appears to have been published on the topic to date.



3
was not, for obvious reasons, favored by PORTOBRAS. Overall, GOB's present port strategy sets the
tone for decentralization, namely light-handed regulation and more private sector involvement. The next
step will be fine-tuning in order to provide more specific guidance to the individual port authorities on
how to put this into practice.
9.   Measures recently introduced by GOB have somewhat improved operations in some of the major
ports, largely due to a more significant involvement of the private sector. Costs, however, remain high
and productivity is still very low when compared to other ports in industrialized countries. The approval
of appropriate labor legislation and firming up of decentralization policies should provide an opportunity
for further Bank assistance to the port subsector, if requested. Given the need for extensive preparatory
work, H-wever, Lhe necessary tasks to provide inputs for an overall strategy for future Bank lending
i.iight have to be organized and financed under separate arrangements.
Linkages between project. sector and macro-policy objectives
10.   A wide range of ills were diagnosed in Brazil's port system during project preparation. They
incht ied: (i) excessive centralization; vii) poor operations and financial management; (iii) restrictive labor
practices; (iv) obsolete port legislation; (v) lack of incentives for pnvate sector participation; and (vi)
obsolete ecuipment. Although daunting, these problems clearly suggested the need for a Bank financed
operation, given the large scale of the Brazilian port system and the negative impact of these problems
on the trade performance of the country. In the words of the project MOP: "The Brazilian port subsector
has evolved into a bureaucratic and o.ten inefficient system, and without substantial policy and
institutional reforms it will not be able to achieve its full potential as an efficient conduit for international
trade" (MOP para.5).
11.   The Bank's approach to the project was clearly spelt out in the MOP: "in addition to providing
scarce financial resources, the Bank, through advice and guidance and through its greater access to
international experience and expertise. would be able to provide critical support to develop and implement
high priority action programs for policy and institttional reforms" (MOP para. 5). By addressing key
sub-sector issues, the Bank hoped that it could influence subsector policy formulation, thereby helping
GOB remove a major bottleneck in national development. This would in turn, pave the way for large
scale Bank financing of major physical investment directly in the ports themselves.
12.   The Bank thus found a window of opportunity to assist GOB in removing one of the major
impediments to improved trade performance. But because of the long hiatus in port-related dialogue, the
concerned parties did not know each other well, and there was an initial feeling of distrust. After
considerable internal debate and a series of presentations and workshops designed to identify the main
issues and options, the Bank decided to take a calculated risk in agreeing to proceed with the preparation
of a port lending operatiou. The obvious counterpart was PORTOBRAS, as the constitutionally
established entity to oversee the national ports system, although the Bank was aware of its inefficient
practices and top heavy administration.
13.   The ambitious expectations were reasonably well founded at project appraisal in 1987, but none
was to be realized. Instead of becoming a key partner of GOB in the dialogue about modernizing Brazil's
port system, the Banik became isolated from a major debate on port reform stimulated by GOB's



4
announcement in June 1990 of its new trade and industry policy.' The Bank found itself with a lame
duck borrower, with PORTOBRAS already in the hands of a Receiver.
14.    Short term measures under the Collor Plan fully occupied the new federal administration from
March 1990 onwards. Alzhough Bank files do include correspondence favorable to the continuation of
the project, this desire did not prevail. GOB formally requested the cancellation of the loan which was
closed December 31, 1990. The delay in reaching a final GOB position contributed to the deterioration
of what had become, since April of that year, an orphan project.
15.    During the final months the project became an administrative nightmare, with project consultants
seeking settlement of outstanding financial claims against PORTOBRAS. In these circumstances, effective
technical work could not be carried and the project unnecessarily faced additional financial outlays.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
Project Obiectives
16.    The main objective of the project was to support GOB's plans to restructure the port system and
to set the stage for its modernization. Different parties to the project interpreted these objectives
according to their own interests, sometimes in conflicting ways. Thus for some in the Bank, it was to
promote the international transfer of port technology and port operations management to Brazil, while
others (including some PORTOBRAS officials) saw it primarily as a means to prepare a major follow-on
operation to finance physical infrastructure. For others in PORTOBRAS and INPH, it was an opportunity
to revive the declining fortunes of these institutions. For the ports themselves, it provided an opportunity
for free, if uninvited technical assistance services. The lack of crisp operational objectives made it
difficult to contemplate the continuation of the operation after the institutional arrangements fell apart with
the demise of PORTOBRAS.
17.    The Bank decided not to support irvestments in specific ports, because of the substantial regional
shifts and changes in trade volumes and types of commodities moved through the national port system,
all of which required an overall assessment of each port. In short, investments and management
arrangements in Brazilian ports had to be brought in line with observed and projected trends in seaborne
trade and ocean transport.
Components
18.    According to the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2), the project included the following components:
Part A.Institution Building (US$15.1 million, or 34.4% of appraisal costs)
j   Included among the (many) trade and industry reforms of June 27, 1990 were: (a) port modernization aining at cost
reduction and private sector participation; and (b) revision of tariffs to international levels. Under the new
administration, the policy formulation initiative regarding ports shifted (in the absence of PORTOBRAS) to the
Mtiinistry of Economy, which issued the policy statement as the Ministry of Economy 'Portarial (regulation) no. 538
of September 13, 1990.



5
(1). Reform, based upon the Guarantor's Policy, of the institutional organization of the
Guarantor's port subsector, focussing on the following: (a) Preparation of a strategy and action
plan for the institutional and organizational development of the ports and in land waterway
subsectors; (b) Measures to rationalize the ports system and management, improvement of lhe
Borrower's planning functions and processes and in the administration of selected ports and, if
the ports are operated by operators other than the Borrower, in the port operations, establishment
of a national port development strategy, adjustment of existing port development schemes and on-
going master planning efforts and determiination of high priority investment needs and immediate
iction requirements; (c) Streamlining of the Borrower's Organization, Personnel Management and
Information Systems through the development of a reorganization plan: (d) Improvement of
operational productivity in the ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro, Paranagua, Manaus and Recife
through action plans that, inter " will: upgrade operating practices including better utilization
of facilities, maintenance practices, cargo handling, yard and storage operations, effective use of
labor, auxiliary services, cargo cleaning services (including administrative procedures), coordinate
with other transport modes and review, for modernization purposes and to provide a framework
for the above improvements, of labor legal provisions; (e) Improvement of port operating
finances through developing action plans to: (i) review the port revenue sharing schemes with the
view of upgrading to encourage more cost effective operation; (ii) upgrade the costing, budgeting
and mariff systems both in the Borrower and other port operations; (iii) produce and disseminate
information for business decision making such as investment evaluation, operational decisions and
tariff assessment; and (iv) provide a basis for management control, monitoring of financial
discipline and operational performance.
(2). Execution of a training program to enhance staff capabilities throughout the Borrower's
operation consisting of: (a) Advanced in-service training of managers and higher level staff in the
Borrower's and in other port operators within the Borrower's system to support the
implementation of the institution building actions plans referred to in (a) through (e) above; and
(b) the reorganization of the Borrower's trainina center, consistent with the training needs of the
other port operators and with the Guarantor's policy and the instirutional changes proposed for
the subsector.
Part B.Applied Research (US$16.2 million, or 36.8 % of appraisal costs)
(a) A program of activities aimed at upgrading the research and operational capacity of the
Borrower's National Hydraulic Research Institute (INPH) mostly by alleviating its current
shortage of modern facilities and equipment and thus enabling the gathering and dissemination
by INPH of statistical information for decision making by the Borrower and other port operators;
and (b) A program of activities aimed at upgrading the ability of INPH and, through subsequent
training by INPH, of port operators' personnel, in designing, implementing and monitoring
environmental protection measures suitable to port operations.
Part C.Eneineering StudiestPreRaration of Biddins! Documents (USS12.7 million or
28.9% of appraisal costs)
A program of specific Approvsd Engineering Studies which will provide the Borrower with the
technical information required to prepare bid documentation for te.ndering for the corresponding
works or goods purchases required for carrying out the Project.
D. Project Design and Organization
19.   This project was a relatively small lending operation in terms of the Brazilian portfolio. It was
essentially devoted to investigations and studies required for establishing a strategy for port development



6
in Brazil, while providing a national framework for future Bank lending and assistance in the sector.
Furthermore, there was provision for technical assistance to address high priority needs, especially in port
operations and management.
20.    The operation was: "designed as the first phase of a broader plan for the institutional and financial
restructuring of the Brazilian ports' (MCP Technical Annex para. 8) A second phase would have been:
"a full-fledged Port Sector Loan to be appraised about two years later to support the comprehensive
streamlining of the subsector" (MOP bidJ.. When it became evident, with the demise of PORTOBRAS,
that the major follow-on operation was unlikely to be'realized, the Project inevitably lost some of its
raison d'erre.
21.    If by institutional and financial restructuring is understood the redefinition of agency
responsibilities, objectives and funding arrangements, including the privatizatioa of some key services,
the project provided only modest level of assistance towards that end. Restructuring of PORTOBRAS
itself, although very much in need, was not in a practical sense on the project agenda. Had it been
included, the Borrower would probably had not wanted the project at all. Instead, mostly studies, albeit
useful ones, were programmed in the fields of Port Planning (16.9% of planned man-months), Port
Operations (51.2% of planned man-months), and Port Subsector Organization (31.9% of planned man-
months). In terms of resource allocation, the most important port planning studies were: (a) Formulation
of a National Port System Development Policy; and (b) Adjustment to Existing (Port) Master Plans.
Studies related to various aspects of port operations (most of which were combined under a single large
contract), covered port coordination, general cargo handling, container handling, maintenance, land
transportation and administrative procedures. Regarding port subsector organization, the most important
study was an analysis of sector organization and finances (details: para. 38 and MOP Technical Annex
Schedule 1 p.1).
22.    For an operation aimed at helping to plan the financial restructuring of the port subsector, the
project gave surprisingly little attention to the financial constraints affecting the subsector. Although its
objectives focussed upon key issues related to: (i) port tariffs; (ii) sector financing; and (iii) costing and
budgeting, the project only allocated 84 man-months of technical assistance to these tasks, 7.9% of the
total 1,057 man-months planned. Most project effort went into studies of port operations, despite of
GOB's key aim for the port sub-sector being: "the gradual achievement of financial self-sufficiency"
(MOP Technical Annex para. 4).
23.    The Bank accepted PORTOBRAS as borrower and executing agency while fully aware of the
intrinsic weaknesses of the institution. Bank staff hoped the project would indirectly help reform it.6
The project MOP (para. 3) identified ten major shortcomings of the agency, including excessive
centralization, inadequate operational and financial planning, inadequate costing and budgeting and the
lack of management information systems, as well as an antiquated tariff structure.
6   A sharp deterioration appeared to have taken place since the completion of the earlier Santos Port Project (PCR
prepared in 1983) which was praiseworthy of PORTOBRAS: 'PORTOBRAS has accomplished most of its objectives;
the main organization is fully staffed, the taining program is working and the overall efficiencv can be considered
good. The one important area whe-e difficulties have been encountered is that of financial and investment planning.
However, most of the difficulty can be ascnbed to the general economic situation of Brazil and the tariff structure.'
(PCR parm 6.06).



7
24.   Moreover, PORTOBRAS' initial lack of enthusiasm for the project was evident to those who
participated in project preparation and appraisal. Bank missions at that time recalled difficulties in
meeting the agency's top management, although access became somewhat easier after project start-up.
According to some project consultants, however, the interest of PORTOBRAS' top management in the
project was at best limited. It appeared to vanish altogether upon departure of the Bank missions from
Brasilia. The Bank's principal working relationship was with CODESI, the project management unit.
The most important thing for project implementation was that CODESI itself was able to keep working.
25.   The attractiveness of PORTOBRAS for the Bank, however, was as an agency at the center of an
enormous port system to which large scale assistance might eventually be deployed. PORTOBRAS'
institutional stability looked good too. In its thirteen years' existence, for example, it had only two
presidents. Understandably at appraisal, the disappearance altogether of such as agency was not
considered a serious project risk. Important issues today, however, are whelier the risks involved in
designating such organizatiorLs as executing agencies can be factored in the project design and what
safeguards should be considered to protect the projects, in case such agencies are dissolved.
26.   With the benefit of hindsight, the Bank might have taken advantage of a closer reading of the
politics of PORTOBRAS, an agency where political negotiations with state governments, for instance,
helped determine the regional allocation of PORTOBRAS funds. Neither the economic rate of return of
the investments, thereby financed, nor their contribution to an overall de, elopment strategy were
important considerations in such decision making. At the same time, it must be admitted, that the
possibility of correcting these practices in PORTOBRAS added appeal to the project.
27.   INPH - Instisuo de Pesquisas Hidraulicas (Hydraulics Research Institute) in Rio de Janeiro was
slated to implement the project's Applied Research Component (Part B.). Although it had been one of
Latin America's foremost hydraulic research institutes with a staff of 180 at its peak in the 1970s, decline
had already set in by appraisal. Today it has a total staff of 75. Project actions proposed for INPH,
especially increasing its mathematical modelling capabilities, were appropriate to the scientific needs of
the institute. However, a thorough institutional appraisal of the INPH would have recommended legal
covenants under the project to help guarantee PORTOBRAS' counterpart funding for its principal research
agency. The funds were not forthcoming, and INPH's own efforts to improve its financial standing were,
at best, modest.
28.   PORTOBRAS itself was to have executed the Engineering Studies/Preparation of Bidding
Documents Component (Part C.) of the project. The component was to: "support PORTOBRAS'
investment preparatory work through technical assistance for engineering studies which would provide
PORTOBRAS with technical information to prepare bid documents for selected high priority areas",
under agreed Ports Master Plan' (MOP Technical Annex para. 14). Whether PORTOBRAS understood
bidding documents to have been the outcome of this work must remain in doubt, judging from the
agency's last project report, which makes no explicit reference to them.
E. Proiect Implementation
29.   In order to formulate a port sector strategy and identify the derived action and investment
programs, project implementation was intended to address the following tasks sequentially: (i) review and
assessment of ongoing port studies; (ii) identification of further research and studies needed to fill gaps
identified in order to esta,,iish a sound analytical basis for strategy formulation; (iii) execution of this
additional research; (iv) formulation of a national port systems development and management strategy;



(v) design of necessary adjustments to existing port master plans and management arrangements; and (vi)
preparation of investment programs and related feasibility studies for selected ports.
30.   Especially with -espect to port operations, tasks (i) and (ii) were expeditiously and quite
successfully completed. During the implementation of task (iii), however, there were clear indications
of waning interest in the Project on the part of PORTOBRAS. A possible explanation for this attitude
is that: (a) PORTOBRAS' management came to realize that a number of the findings did not coincide
with ongoing or planned investments in particular ports; and (b) there was pressure to invest in several
instances, regardless of the outcome of the strategy formulation effort. All this happened during the first
half of 1989, and by mid-year project implementation started to flounder. In fact, without futher
progress in strategy formulation, the majority of the project components lost much of their relevance.
31.   Only 18.5 % of the US$20 million loan was disbursed, owing to the premature termination of the
project in December 1990. The story of the implementation of this project therefore, is not usual one
of comparing planned with actual schedules, as it is for most completed operations. Instead, it is one of
how GOB and Bank reacted to the crisis wrought upon the project through the dissolution of the
implementing agency only eighteen months after the loan became effective. Despite the failures to
achieve the project goals, the experience of project implementation was an important one for GOB and
the Bank in learning to deal with institutional instability.
32.   Following Board approval in May 1988, the loan became effective in October 1988. Conditions
of effectiveness were straightforward and were not used to leverage significant policy or administrative
changes.
333.   PORTOBRAS set up CODESI as the project management unit at the departmental level in
Brasilia. With CODESI management's formal line of reporting directly to PORTOBRAS' President,
though, it had little influence over the powerful six directorates of the agency (notably the Planning and
Operations Directorates). These remained outside the purview of the project.
34.   While its formal establishment was quick, CODESI's effective functioning was, according to
PORTOBRAS' last project report, hindered by three important factors: (i) PORTOBRAS did not provide
CODESI with accommodation in PORTOBRAS' own offices - the unit had to re-locate three times over
a period of fifteen months; (ii) PORTOBRAS did not assign adequate staff to CODESI; and (iii) CODESI
remained isolated as if it were outside PORTOBRAS' normal administrative structure.
35.   Project communications with PORTOBRAS top management were not easy. Project staff and
consultants reported that face to face meetings with them were rare events. Top management was
available in Brasilia only one day each week owing to a heavy travel schedule. Given PORTOBRAS'
top heavy administrative structure, regular contact at the highest level within the agency was essential for
the project, even in order have simple decisions made about the routine allocation of counterpart funding,
for example.
36.   A USS9.1 million consulting contract (accounting for 88.2% of all technical assistance to be
contracted under the project) for Port System Development, Planning and Management was awarded to
a port operator chosen from among a short list of six with important experience in North America and
Europe. As allowed under clause 4.4 of its contract, the winning bidder opted to sub-contract nearly all
the work to a consulting firm from a different city. This arrangement produced results not in keeping
with the spirit of the project. In particular, the recipientports in Brazil (of this technical assistance) were



9
deprived of the direct contact that was intended with the operational experience of a major port operator
overseas. An important lesson of this experience is that there is the need for better oversight of
subcontracting arrangements under a technical assistance contract such as this one.
37.   The contract was terminated upon cancellation of the loan. Although US$2.4 million had beea
spent, only very limited technical results were achieved. Consultants reported poor working conditions
in the ports and in Brasilia. PORTOBRAS' unwillingness to pay contracted per diem and travel costs
prevented the consultant's management team in Brasilia from effectively supervising consultants deployed
in the ports throughout the country. In these ports, consultants reported that the absence of logistical
support made data collection practically impossible. For their part, the local port authorities felt no
responsibility for teams hired by PORTOBRAS. Communications barriers between foreign co, sultants
and local staff were formidable, since very few of either party were bilingual.
38.   A more successful experience (on a much smaller scale) derived from the preparation of a study
of port subsector organization and finance. The study presented three alternativc scenarios for port
system organization, ranging from a continuation of the status quo to one radiL -1 reform. According to
one of its authors, the report contributed to the national policy discussions during the crucial first three
months of 1991, when the incoming federal administration was forming a government. Ironically, the
new administration opted for the outright abolition of PORTOBRAS, the agency that had contracted the
study.
F. Project Results
Dismantlfng of Project Management and Records
39.   With the premature termination of the project, the management structure was effectively
dismantled. CODESI, now in DNTA, is only a remnant of a nucleus that was to have controlled a very
large technical assistance operation.  Today, there is not even a complete record of project
documentation. Important documents were mislaid or removed during the dismantling of PORTOBRAS
operations. The passive involvement of the ports themselves meant that they did not systematically keep
copies of reports produced.
40.   The demobilization of the project teams and the departure of the consultants led to the dispersion
of the project experience. The task of completing this PCR was itself made difficult by the abseace of
a central data baze about the project experience.
Impact of Proiect upon PORTOBRAS
41.   The impact of the project upon PORTOBRAS was disappointingly small. CODESI's physical
and organizadonal isolation within the agency resulted in it being perceived as running a special program
not expected to interfere PORTOBRAS' day-to-day methods or activities. The latter included a reportedly
over-scaled containerization project in the southern state of Santa Catarina promoted by PORTOBRAS
shortly before itsdissolution. As a result, modernization, strategic planning ;n-d privatization - all themes
espoused by the project - aroused little interest among the agency's top mauagement. There is little
evidence that the project helped improve the management of PORTOBRAS prior to the demise of this



10
agency. At the time, however, it must be recognized that some technical staff of the agency benefitted
individually from their contact with the project.
Impact of Project upon the Ports
42.   Within the main ports of Santos and Rio de Janeiro, the knowledge derived from the work
undertaken through the project was not systematically disseminated. Local staff's awareness of the
project and its results depended upon individual's chance encounters with the consultants working there.
Authorities in both ports complained that they did not receive copies of project reports from
PORTOBRAS. They considered that the project organization was overly centralized.
43.   There was little awareness in the selected ports of the intended purpose of technical assistance
provided under the project, and thus there was only limited support for the consultants' activities.
CODESI, the project management unit, could have been much more active in disseminating the project,
had it had better access to PORTOBRAS' top management. Among other things, this would have ensured
that CODESI had adequate counterpart funding to finance travel and per diem to fulfil its nation-wide
coordination responsibilities under the project.
44.   In the Port of Rio de Janeiro, the project produced a diagnostic study of the operational condition
of port equipment, recommending that a large number of obsolete cranes be scrapped and under-utilized
warehouse space be demolished. Port staff considered that the diagnostic report reflected only what was
already well known to them. In any case, the report's recommendations were not acted i;pon by CDRJ
(Rio de Janeiro State Port Authority).  Representatives at CDRJ reported a number of recent
improvements in port operations through the introduction of earnings/productivity agreements with the
work-force in September 1991 and the preparation of "Plano Estrat'gico Empresarial" (strategic
management plan) in October 1991. CDRJ staff were emphatic that initiatives such as these owed nothing
to the project.
45.   Little sympathy towards the project was evident also in the port of Santos. Project consultants
had only precarious access to the management of CODESP (Sao Paulo State Port Authority), who
considered project staff consultants merely as an extension of PORTOBRAS itself. In order to preserve
its own independence, CODESP tried to maintain some distance from PORTOBRAS. During PCR
preparation, it was difficult to identify concrete results upon port operations deriving from the project.
As in Rio de Janeiro, the Santos' authorities were keen to report improvements introduced, (such as
coordinated river crossing times, for example) which they claimed had little to do with the project.
46.   Another significant weakness of the project was the lack of labor relations specialists in the
consultant teams. A number of technical recommendations made, to reduce over-manning for example,
were impossible to implement, given the complex labor relations in the ports, which the consultants did
not examine. There appeared to have been no contact with the powerful labor unions at Santos, for
example.
Demoralization of Project Teams upon Dissolution of PORTOBRAS
47.   The unexpected decision to abolish PORTOBRAS Ln April 1990 dealt a devastating blow to the
morale of the project staff and consultants. From that time until the project was formerly closed in



11
December of that year, consultants' attention to technical details of project work naturally gave way to
efforts to Justify the continuation of their contracts. Although progress reporting continued on a regular
basis, it was used as medium for justifying the continuation of the project. Reports submitted began to
read like competitive proposals by bidders for new work to be done.
48.   As a counterpoint, CODESI's own attention shifted from important sub-sector issues to the
detailed administrative minutia of the project. The deterioration of the technical content of the project
was such that it is doubtful if any useful work could have been produced following the demise of
PORTOBRAS. This did not inhibit the Bank, however, from examining options with various GOB
officials about the possible continuation of the project.
Impact upon INNPH
49.   Most of the planned investments under the project to re-vitalize INPH as a research center were
not realized. The project did not succeed in revitalizing what was a declining institute. An alternative
course of action might have been to ievive its fortunes throuah forging research links with local
universities as similar laboratories do in Europe, for example. Nevertheless, high level training for five
INPH professionals in Delft, Holland, was provided and highly valued by the participants. If retained,
this nucleus of highly trained professionals could serve as a base for future technology transfer to the
instirute.
G. Proiect Sustainability
JO.   This was effectively lost after the abolition of PORTOBRAS. With the premature termination
of the project, the limited results achieved were dispersed following the breakup of the project teams.
A number of technical staff of PORTOBRAS and the ports nevertheless benefitted from their association
with the Project. They are now dispersed, but represent an important resource that can be mobilized
when port modernization programs are resumed.  Although limited in scale, local training of
PORTOBRAS staff and the overseas training program of INPH staff are examples of project actions that
did bring permanent benefits to the participants.
H. Bank Performance
51.   Considerable Bank staff and consultant resources were devoted to the preparation and appraisal
of this project through to Board approval (135 staff weeks). Supervision consumed 151 staff weeks over
a two-and-a-half-year period, a rather intensive effort. Lack of staff continuity in the Bank after June
1990 did not help project supervision, especially towards the end, when most effort had to be devoted
to administrative details about the closure of the project.
52.   The Bank's own limited experience with the ports sub-sector in Brazil was compounded
understandably by its never having had to deal with a crisis in the sub-sector, such as the one provoked
by the abolition of PORTOBRAS. In retrospect, the Bank could not have been expected to have had
more experience in dealing with such a singular situation. The earlier Bank financed operation in Santos
(Ln 756-BR: 1971-1980), mainly concerned with physical improvements in one particular port, had little
bearing upon this project.



12
53.   One of the most important contributions of the project, as stated by a number of port staff, was
the requirement (under Bank guidelines for the hiring of consultants) that terms of reference be prepaued
for consulting contracts, a practice not earlier followed.
I. Borrower Performance
54.   During the early phases of project start-up, PORTOBRAS fulfilled it; formal obligations under
the legal agreements with the Bank. It became clear later, from the little attention its top management
gave to the substantive aspects of the project, that this was not a priority activity for the agency. At best,
this gave CODESI autonomy to go its own way. At worst PORTOBRAS' management's lack of interest
set CODESI adrift.                                                                -
55.   According to some Project consultants, POR1'OBRAS failed to pay.for travel expenses (air fares
and per diem, for example), due under their contracts. The lack of counterpart funding for these items
seriously impaired the efficiency of the consultant teams. CODESI's own difficult access to top
management limited its effectiveness in mobilizing these funds for the project.
56.   PORTOBRAS' receivership was a protracted task. The project itself was but part of a much
larger problem. In these difficult circumstances, the Receiver performed well in clarifying the closing
positioa of the project. His task was not made any easier by the misplacement of much project
documentation during the demobilzation of PORTOBRAS.
J. Proict Relationship
57.   Successive local teams and Bank missions enjoyed good relations throughout, notwithstanding
difficulties brought on by the premature cancellation of the project. Indeed Bank missions were regarded
as a source of important advice on matters related to the relations between the receiver and the contractors
and consultants.
58.   Inevitably relations between consultants  d the borrower became tense with the annulment of
their contracts. Legal action in Brazilian courts is still under way at the time of writing to settle
outstanding claims. There was no evidence, however, of serious personal or professional conflicts. This
itself was a significant achievement given the tensions created by uncertainties about the future of the
project after PORTOBRAS's abolition.
59.   Both Brazilian and foreign consultants enjoyed good personal relations with their counterparts in
Brasilia and in the ports. The nrofessional dialogue, however, did not always lead to transfer of
technology as planned. Local staff frequently complained that foreign consultants in particular were
unprepared for the conditions they found in Brazilian ports and hence had to spend more time learning
than teaching.
K. Consultin2 Services
60.   As the output of the project was achieved almost exclusively through the provision of consulting
services, this report as a whole deals with the .topic extensively.



13
L. Project Documentation and Data
61.   During the demobilization of CODESI and the abolition of PORTOBRAS itself, much project
documentation was lost. What is currently available to CODESI probably represents less than one half
the documentation produced by the project. This is a disappointing result, but to be expected following
the traumatic abolition of an important agency suzh as PORTOBRAS. The re-assembly of this
documentation would be a worthwhile task in the context of future planning activities in the port sector.
62.   As already mentioned, PORTOBRAS Receiver's own work was also made difficult by the lack
of complete financial documentation pertaining to the final two years of the project. In spite of these
difficulties, audits of project accounts were carried without significant opinions of irregularities having
been expressed by the auditors.
M. Lessons of the Experience
63.   Since the project did not include investments in infrastructure and equipment, it was regarded as
a necessary condition to achieve that goal in a subsequent loan. PORTOBRAS' top decision makers
seemed to be willing to ac:om=nodate the project as long as the result of the studies included in it did not
propose drastic changes te2 either their style of management or to the centralized organization scheme in
which PORTOBRAS operated.  Technical assistance projects of this type are risky whea the
implementation agency considers them just as an academic exercise required to obtain a loan for physical
investments and is not willing to incorporate institutional and operations reforms proposed in its day to
day management and operations. The risks are particularly high since this kind of project cannot promise
to finance physical investments in return for progress made with institutional improvements.
64.   In hindsight, proposing technological and managerial improvements without addressing port labor
restrictive practices in Brazilian ports was, at best, very optimistic. Indeed, if the objective was to find
cost-effective solutions to lower the cost of port operations, the problem could not be solved without
addressing the monopolistic and obsolete labor practices existing in Brazil, and the need for to finance
compensation for related redundancies.
65.   A project management unit without authority and counterpart funds, as was the case of CODESI,
is severely handicapped in carrying out its functions. Strong assurances must be sought to guarantee the
authority of the Project Management Unit and its easy and regular access to top management as well as
to counterpart funds.
66.   Whether to cancel a project or reformulate it when the executing agency is dissolved and a
successor is not immediately appointed calls for expeditious decision making. In the case of this
operation, indecision and uncertainty demoralized project staff and consultants and the project
unnecessarily  incurred  additional  financial  costs.    Frequent GOB's  flip-flops  regarding
cancellation/continuation of the loan dragged on while the main parties interested in the continuation of
the project lobbied for its reformulation. Since there was no designated successor to PORTOBRAS, the
project drifted aimnlessly for almost eight months until GOB finally decided to formalize its request to
cancel the loan.



14
67.   There is the need for better oversight of subcontracting arrangements under technical assistance
contracts. Draft contracts need to be reviewed carefully by Bank and borrower to ensure that escape
clauses do allow the task contracted to deviate from original purpose or spirit of the undertaking. Also,
project supervision should ensure that subsequent adjustments to contracts do not undermine the objectives
that the task was intended to fulfill.
68.    Project objectives need to be realistic and clearly spelt out so that there is a common
understanding between all parties concerned about the purpose of the project and what is likely to be
achieved. References in the documentation of this project to the institutional and financial restructuring
the port sub-sector, for example, were open to contradictory interpretations among the different project
participants.
69.   Transfer of management know-how and technology is a twin track process, involving: (i) the
introduction locally of techniques and practices developed elsewhere; and (ii) their acquisition through
on-the-job training by local staff in the places the technologies came from. The project relied heavily on
the first approach, restricting on-the-job training to experiences in the local ports. This induced local port
staff to believe that they were passive targets of technology transfer, rather than active agents in the
process. The temporary assignment of operational staff of Brazilian ports to installations overseas and
the deployment of foreign port operator personnel (in addition to consultants) could be tried as a means
of technology transfer.
70.    A thorough institutional appraisal and organizational review must precede putting together a
technical assistance loan of this size, especially where a major policy impact is intended. Political risk
analysis ought to be part of this appraisal. Important issues today are whether the risks involved in
designating organizations such as PORTOBRAS as executing agencies can be factored in the project
design and what safeguards should be considered to protect the projecu, in case such agencies are
dissolved.
71.   In spite of the difficulties, the project was a well considered attempt, with known risks, at
improving port performance in Brazil. The need for more efficient port development and management
in Brazil is still urgent today. The dissolution of PORTOBRAS thr w the system into a quagmire of
broken lines of command, haphazard budget appropriations, and lack of guidance. Even though most
responsibilities should be decentralized as far as possible down to level of individual ports, there is still
a need for an effective and small central entiry. It should include representation of shipper interests, and
maintain an overall view of trade trends and associated demand for port capacity in the different coastal
regions. This would help avoid possible duplication of investments in different ports that Brazil can ill
afford.



1S
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    The apparent inconsistency between the objectives of the Bank and those of the Brazilian
government considerably affected this project's performance. Ihis suggests the need that projects
effectively reflect the priorities of the borrowers or executing agencies. It also requires that preparation
missions take pains in assuring that operations to be approved by the Bank are not far from these
priorities.
2.     As usual, in the beginning of a new Government, there is a reevaluation of the targets and
priorities, including ongoing programs. In this specific cp ,e, at the outset of the new Administration, the
executing agency was discontinued in the context of an Administrative Reform. Experience in similar
cases with the Bank, shows that the continuity of projects under similar circumstances is affected, since
the inherent legal questions are sometimes complex and require a considerable amount of time for their
resolution. In this specific case, it would be very difficult to safeguard against this type of risk.
3.    It was clear from this project that there was a need to commit all the agencies involved to the
work being done. The responsibility falls on the coordinating agency, in this case PORTOBRAS, which
was responsible for taking measures to ensure that all participating institutions would do their part to
create an enabling environment for the execution of the project.
4.    At this stage it seems improbable to mobilize technical staff of the ex-PORTOBRAS, since they
are scattered all over Brazil and have assumed new positions. The difficulties encountered in obtaining
information to prepare these commnents illustrates this point.
5.    Although the Bank contribution in the formulation of sectoral policies could be desirable, the
dynamics and sometimes the complexity of the process either does not allow or does not advise
consultation or joint work.
6.     Suggestions regarding operations which aim at the institutional strengthening of an operating
agency in order to prepare it for a new investment project, eventually funded by external resources,
should be carefully evaluated, taking into account the cost of those resources and their use in pre-
investment activities.



16
PROJECT COMPLETION-REPOR
BRAZIL
PORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2941-BR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATEDi SANK LOANS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
. _... .....     ....... ..... ....... ........ .             ....... 
LQZ      ~~Purgose            Yearogf 6poroyal  5tatUs         Qornreots
.  __..... ... ...... ............... ..._ _. ..
567-SR    First Hihway   Cnstruction  1968   Closed   $26.0 million loan for detailed
troie :Tofinanceconstruction                   engineering  and  construction
and  paving  supervision  of                   supervision  for  424km   of
seven  major roads in the                      highways. Satisfactory completion
country.                                      one year prior to schedule, with a
final cost overrun of 10%.
676-BR    Second Hiahwav Construction   1970   Closed   $100.0 million loan intended help
Pgroiec: included construction,               finance  works  which  were
improvement and paving of                     satisfactorily completed with a
2,136km of major roads.                       cost overrun of only 6%.
756-BR    Santos Port Proiect: first Bank  1971   Closed   $45.0 million loan for project that
Loan for the port subsector in                 experienced  considerable  cost
Brazil, aimed  at supporting                  overruns and delays. Less than
parts of Santos Port's five year               50%  was completed by planned
development plan (1971-75),                    closing date, due to revisions and
including the construction of a                protracted  discussions  over
container terminal and ancillary              revision of priorities.
railway facilities.
786-BR    Railway  Proiect: first Bank  1971   Closed   $46.0  million  loan. A  lower
financed project for Brazil's                  economic rate of return than
railways (after a of nearly 20                 expected  at appraisal resulted
years) supported a program for                 from the difficulties of completing
upgrading the system. It was a                 a project with a large Institutional
component  of  a  larger                       component within a ambi-iously
operation for iron ore mining                 tight time frame.
and exporting.
813-854-  Third  and  Fourth  Hiahwav  1972   Closed   $140.0 million Itwo loans) for a
SR        Proiects: included construction                project completed  satisfactorily
and paving of 2,530km  of                      with a higher economic rate of
highways  and  consultants'                    return than expected.
services for supervision and
engineering studies foa. an
additional 4,210km.



17
1074-BR   Second  Railway  Proiect:  1975   Closed   $175.0 million loan fully dispersed
responding  to  the  greater                  as  part  of  the  investment
emphasis placed by GOE on the                 programs of the federal railways.
railway  sub-sector,  the                     Their policy impact upon the much
project's objective was to help               larger programs was, however,
the consolidation rail transport              less than hoped for at appraisal.
through key export corridors to
major ports.
1 075-6R   Fifth Hiahway Proisj: the first  1975   Closed   $110.0  million  loan  effective
Bank finance highway project                   1975. Early delays through lack
in Brazil aimed primarily at                  of counterpart funding set back
supporting road maintenance                   initial progress, and also led to cut
and rehabilitation, instead of                backs in the construction and
new road construction.                        operation of the key component of
weighing stations aimed at
reducing axle weights.
1171-BR   Third  Railway  Proiect  1975   Closed   $75.0 million loan effective March
(FEPASA):  to  finance                         1976. FEPASAwasabletoreduce
investments to improve the                    operating costs of the suburban
suburban rail service of the Sao              services as a result of staff
Paulo  railway  company                       deployment  and  operational
(FEPASA).                                     improvements introduced through
the project.
1207-BR   Secondary and Feeder Roads  1976   Closed   $55.0 million loan effective July
Proiect:  to  improve  and                     1976. Physical implementation
construct 5,210 km of state                    progressed well, but because of
and municipal roads and 62                    constant devaluation of ORTN
bridges,  throughout  the                     (monetary unit used to denominate
country,  with  significant                   sub-loans) a major re-formulation
investments  in  the  poorer                  of project had to be undertaken in
North-East region.                             1981.
1 57-BR   Sixth  Hiahway  Proiect: to  1978   Closed   $114.0  million  loan  effective
finance rehabilitaton works on                 October 1978. Works proceeded
federal highways.                              well until mid-1 980, when federal
government financial constraints
led to them being suspended.
Program resumed in mid-1 981, but
at a slower pace, leading to two
year overrun by completion.
Maintenance program of State of
Parand went particularly well.
A



18
1 563-BR   Urban Transport Proiect: to  1978   Closed   $88.0  million  loan  effective
finance investments to improve                  October 1978.  Project helped
public  transport  services,                    strengthen  the  Brazilian Urban
especially to the poor, support                 Transport Company (EBTU - newly
formulation  of  appropriate                    created  in  1976, but   later
transport  policies  and                        abolished in 1989) and improve
strengthen municipal, state and                 public  transport  in  the  five
federal capacity to prepare,                    selected cities as well as providing
appraise and execute sound                      institutional  support  at  the
urban transport projects.                       municipal  level.      Project
experienced delays due to
protracted preparation of final
engineering designs and tendering.
1730-BR   Second Feeder Roads Proiect:  1979   Closed   $110.0  million  loan  effective
to  provide  continuity  to                     January   1980.       Physical
program begun under Ln 1207-                    implementation of improvement or
BR, with investments in 15                      construction to 4,790 km of roads
States throughout Brazil.                       and 239 bridges proceeded on
schedule.
1839-BR   Second Urban TransoortI (Porto  1980   Closed   $159.0  million  loan  effective
Alecre) Proiect: to help finance                December 1980. Major physical
the construction  of surface                    components of the project were
suburban rail mass transit ir.                 successfully completed within one
Porto Alegre, with ancillary                    year of project completion date at
aims of more efficient urban                    costs  20%   below   appraisal
land use zoning along the city's                estimation.    Trains  became
fastest  growing  transport                     operational in 1985, although with
corridor  and  reducing  fuel                  trip demand lower than forecast.
consumption  and  traffic
congestion.
1965-BR   Third Urban Transport Proiect:  1981   Closed   $90.0  million  loan  effective
to finance investments in ten                   October  1981.  Project  was
urban   centers  throughout                     completed in five years instead of
Brazil. Overall objective was to                the  three  years estimated  at
improve transport conditions in                 appraisal.  Delays  caused  by
urban areas as set out in IlIl                  absence of detailed designs and
National  Development Plan.                     EBTU's failure to appraise and
Key PROPAV component aimed                      process sub-project proposals in
at low  cost paving of bus                      accordance with agreed schedule.
routes  in  urban  areas.
Reorganization of the Brazilian
Urban  Transport  Company
(EBTU) improve its operating
efficiency was included as a
project component.



19
2062-BR   Northwest Region Intearated  1981   Closed   $240.0 million loan effective April
Develooment Program: First                     1982.  Construction  of  the
Phase: Hichway. Proiect: to                   Campinas-Ariquimes (Cuiabi-Porto
construct a major highway in                   Velho) highway, the main project
the region, as well as the                     component proceeded well. Start-
institutional strengthening of                 up difficulties experienced with
the RondOnia State Highway                     strengthening   program   of
Department.                                   RondOnia Highway Department.
Technical  assistance  provided
under the project helped Improve
performance.
2224-BR   Third Feeder Roads Proiect: to  1983   Closed   $154.0 million loan effective June
provide  sub-loans  for                        1983.  Physical  scope  was
construction, improvement and                 increased from 8,000km of roads
rehabilitation of about 8,000                 to 11,400km due to falling costs
km of feeder roads throughout                 deriving  from   exchainge  rate
Brazil to help distribution of                savings resulting from devaluation
agricultural production.                      of local currency vis a vis the 'JS
dollar.
2446-BR   VII Federal Hiahwavs Proiect: a  1984   Closed   $210.0  million  loan  effective
sectoral loan to help rehabilitate             November 1984.   Satisfactory
the federal highway system                     progress made towards fulfillment
with support for safety and                   of project objectives.
highway research programs.
2563-BR   Federal  Railway  Exoart  1985   0  n -  $200.0  million  loan  effective
Corridor: to provide assistance      going    October 1985, currently  53%
to RFFSA in the implementation                 disbursed. Project has experienced
of a set of action plans and                   delays caused by financial and
programs aimed at its financial               institutional problems.
rehabilitation  and  improved
commercial performance
2822-BR   Fourth. Urban Transoort Proiect:  1987   0  n -  $100.0 million loan effective July
aimed  at improving  urban           going     1987.  Although scheduled for
transport systems in the nine                  completion December 1992, loan
metropolitan areas of Brazil, as               was closed prematurely following
well as  conserving  energy                   the extinction of the principal
consumption.  Institutional                    executing agency, EBTU in 1989.
strengthening and introduction
of better financial management
were  among  other  key
objectives.



20
2830-BR   Sao  Paulo  Hiahwav   1987   0  n -  $174.0  million  loan  effective
Manaaement Proiect: for the         going    December 1987, 30%  disbursed
construction, rehabilitation and             to date.
periodic maintenance of about
5,1 00 km of state highways in
SAo Paulo.  The first Bank
financed project to concentrate
exclusively  upon  a  state
highway network.
2857-BR   FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation   1987   0  n -  $100.0 million loan effective July
Proiect: policy and institutional   going    1987, with 57%  disbursed to
development action programs                  date.
and an investment component
for the Siao Paulo State
Railway.
3169-BR   Hiahways  Management and  1991   0  n -  $310.0 million loan effective July
Rehabilitation  Proiect:  to        going    1991. Project still in early stage of
modernize  the  sub-sector                   implementation with 11% of the
through helping to re-define the              loan disbursed.
federal  highway  network,
strengthen the coordinating and
policy role of the National
Highway Department (DNER),
improve compliance with
environmental standards and
finance maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement
of roads in major transport
corridors.



21
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Xm          ~      Date Planned  Date Revised Actual Data
- Identification         06/86                           06/86
- Preparation            06186                           06/86
- Appraisal Mission      05/87                           05187
- Loan Negotiations       12/87                          12/87
- Board Approval         05/88                           05/88
- Loan Signature         06/88                           06/88
- Loan Effectiveness     07/88                           10/88
- Loan Closing           06/94               12/90       12/90
- Loan Completion        12/93              05/91        05/91
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicator          Appraisal Estimate       Actual Estimate
(see section 6 "PROJECT RESULTS' for information on the implementation of the
project's technical assistance and studies)



22
4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of US dollars)
Bank Fiscal Year:     1988  1989  1990  191  1992               19394
Appraisal:              2.2   5.3  10.8  14.8  17.6  19.2  20.0
Actual:                        0.0   1.3   3.0   4.4   3.7   3.7    3.7
Actual as % of
Appraisal              0% 24.5% 27.8% 29.7% 21.0% 19.3%  18.5%
Note:  * The fall in cumulative disbursements from US$ 4.4 million to USS 3.7 million in 1991
resulted from the Brazilian Central Bank's reimbursement of the US$ 0.7 million balance held
in the Special Account. US$ 16.3 million of the loan was cancelled following the premature
closure of the project in December 1990.
Date of Final Disbursement: May 31, 1991
Disbursement Profile
D I SBURSEMENT
SAF and A*tUl
21
20
17
15 _1
, 14
t13
12
11 _
91_
o ~~~ 3
2f
I~~
198S         1990    I            I    199+
1s09        1991         i3S1
F-iscal Year
Flc IYI.a
1. Actual



23
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Cos
(US$ million)
. .. .-. ...................  -     . .- - - - - ....    - -
Appraisal                    Revised               Actual
LocaForeianTOTAL           LocaForeionTOTAL  LocaForeianTOTAL
Institution Building    9.97  5.15 15.12(no formal revisions made)                    4.28
Applied Research    10.23  5.95 16.18                                                 1.32
Engineering Studies/
Prep of Bidding Documents 9.09  3.61 12.70
1.46
--------------------- . . . ....-...... _. . .... -------------
TOTAL:                 29.29 14.71 44.00                                               7.06
---------------------------------------
B. Project Financina
(USS million)
------------.---e-  - -----------
Souce                     Aooraisal_ t%         Rev:ised   M%         Actual   M%
IBRD                          20.00 45.5%           (no revisions)       2.57 38.4%
PORTOBRAS                     24.00 54.5%                                4.49 63.6%
TOTAL:                       4A4.Q100.0%                                7.061000%
_ _                                     .    .-----. .. _.........   ........ . .......



24
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
.........,................... ....... ......... ................. .......... ................................   ......._
Indicators                     Aporaisal Estimate                     Estimated at Closing Date
........................ ............................................................................... ... _..... . _ ............ ._ _.
(see part D. "Studies" below)
B. Economic Imoact
Economic Rate of Return               A6oraisal Estimate              Actual Estimate
(Through consisting almost exclusively of technical assistance, studies and training, the
economic rate of return of the project was not estimated either at appraisal or at
project completion. The basic economic justification of the project, however, was to
bring efficiency improvements to the Brazilian port system, particularly during a period
of growing international trade. The expected benefits, in reduced port handling costs
for example, were only partly realized, owing to the premature cancellation of the
project and uncertainty overshadowing the port system today.)
_~~~~~~~~~-----------   - -- - --.-.-.                 ........ .. . . .  ......... _._ .... _.._..
C. Financial Imoact
Future
Financial Rate of Return               Without Proiect        With Proiect            Actual
(The project intended actions that would improve the financial performance of
PORTOBRAS and the port operating companies, through the introduction of cost-based
tariffs and incentive mechanisms in revenue sharing between the various agents of the
port system. As the project intended to break new ground, specific financial targets
were left for a follow-on operation.)
~~~~~~~~~. .__. __. .__. .. .._....... ............. . . _.. ..._........... ... . ....... . ... . ... .



25
D. Studies
Studv                     Puroose as Defined at     Status                    Imo of Std
Aporaisal
Strategy and Acton        To address: (ii roles     This was the main         Limited because of
Plan for institutional    of  PORTOBRAS,            project coimponent        p r e m a t u r e
and  organizational       federal  and  state       which had to be cut       cancellation  and
development of ports      governments and port      short through  the        overtaken by events.
sector                    operating companies;      p r e m a I u r e
(i i) I eg al  and       cancellation  of the
organizational           project.
framework; and {iii)
financing  proposals
for investment.
National  Port            To  develop   a           Notpreparedbecause        None
Development Strategy      concerted  national       of the dissolution of
s t r a t e g y  f o r   PORTOBRAS,  who
developing individual    was to have been
ports and designing      responsible  for the
adjustments  to          work.
existing port master
plans  to  fit  the
strategy.
PO R TO B R AS            To  strengthen            Notprepared because       None
reorganization            PO R TO BRAS              of the dissolution of
program                   management,  work         PORTOBRAS.
organization and
methods and
personnel poliries.
Master Plans of the       T o   d e v e I o p       Not prepared because      None
ports of Santos and       preliminary  designs      of the dissolution of
Rio de Janeiro.           and feasibility studies   PORTOBRAS,  who
of  port operations      was to have been
c o n t r o I  a n d      responsible  for the
information systems.     work.
Studies of ports of       T o  i d e n t i f y      Partly completed in       Due  to  premature
Santos,  Rio  de          opportunity  for         the cases of Santos        cancellation  of
Janeiro, Paranagua.       productivity  gains,      and Rio de Janeiro.       consulting contracts,
Manaus, and Recife.       through  improved                                   only partial proposals
labor practices and a                               were  forthcoming
more rational use of                                from the studies.
equipment.
E,pansion of Capacity     To improve in-house       Not undertaken            None
for  mathematical         capacity in this field.
modelling at INPH



26
Engineering  studies:     T o   p r o v I d e       Not  undertaken           None
preparation of bidding    PORTOBRAS  with          through  premature
documents.                technical information     ca n celia t io n  of
necessary to prepare      project.
bidding   documents
for selected high
priority projects.



27
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement
Section                      Subject                     Comments
(Project Loan Agreement for this Technical Assistance Project did not covenant specific actions
by the Borfower or executing agencies beyond standard financial covenants common to all
project loan agreements. These were not explicitly reviewed during project supervision.)
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Sta Inous
(Staff weeks)
Bank Fiscal Year:
I=8    1984   I=     I98    1987  I98    1989  I99    1991  199;
Stage of Project
Cycle:
Pre-Appraisal     5.2   17.5  24.3  21.9   40.6
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                25.9
Board Approval through                               33.6
Loan Effectiveness
(Negotiation)
Supervision                                          69.8   52.8   22.6    6.0
Completion                                                                         1.2
TOTAL              5.2   17.5  24.3  21.9   66.5  103.4  62.8   22.6    6.0    1.2
--s----------------=X======X==a=====8==== ==Z= =  ----- 
Z=8==wS"^^"""=w"a3-8"3"Qw



28
B. Missions
Stage of Project Month/ No. of Days in  Specialization    Performance     Types of     Comments
Cycle             Year Persons   field  Reprasentedij rating status2/    PrnblemsA/
Through Appraisal 01183      3     17     Ec                                         Identification
10/83      2     10 Ec,Eng                                          Jdentification
02/84      2       4 FA.Eng                                         Identification
05/84      1       3    Eng                                         Identification
09/84      2       2    Eng                                         Identification
03/85      2       6 FA,Eng                                         Identification
09/85      2       2  FA.Ec                                           Preparation
06/8B       1     11     FA                                           Preparation
02/87      2      15 FA,Eng                                           Preparation
Appraisal through
Board Presentation 0e/87    7      21 FA,Eng,                                           Appraisal
Ec
09/87      5      18 FA,Eng,                                       Post-Appraisal
Ec
02/88      1      1 4    FA                                        Post-Appraisal
03/88       1     10    Eng                                        Post Appraisal
Board Approval through
Loan Effectiveness 07/88    3      14 FA,Eng                      1                    Supervision
Supervision      10/88       1     15    Eng
02/89       1     10     FA
03/89      2      21 FA,Eng                     2      M
10/89      2       3    Env
05/90       1     10     FA
11/90      1       5    TrPI
01/91       1      3    TrPI                    3       M
1/ Ec - Economist; Eng = Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst; TrPI . Transport Planner.
2/ 1 . minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems
3/ (Type of Problem) F - financial; M = managerial; T = technical; P - political.
=== 8 -----          ww"Xsss=a8              1 *=****s*ww          
-------    = in m                   m3ZminDmin m                     m    m    m     m  ssa  "s **  "   *wsa*  



