Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2941 BR
(Port Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 17, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2941 BR
 GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1988, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Empresa de Portos do Brasil S.A. - PORTOBRAS (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have  requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Guarantor represents and warrants that the Guarantor's Policy remains 
in full force and effect;
(C)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in  various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on  the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on  condition that the Guarantor agree to 
Page  2
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the  respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to  this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the  Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to  the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required  for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to  the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.03. For purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, the Guarantor shall: 
(i) upon request of the Borrower or the Bank exchange views with the Borrower or the 
Bank, as the case may be, for purposes of  determining each Approved Engineering Study 
or whether the recommendations under the studies included in Part A.1 (except in Part 
A.1 (a)) of the Project should be put into effect; (ii) upon request of the Borrower, 
and  in a timely fashion so as to enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of 
Sections 3.02 (b) and 3.03 of the Loan Agreement in respect of the terminal dates 
stipulated therein or otherwise to be determined pursuant to the provisions of such 
Sections, through the Secretary General of its Ministry of Transport, express the 
Guarantor's approval or disapproval in respect of the inclusion of a specific project 
in Part C of the Project or  the putting into effect of the recommendations under the 
studies mentioned above.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  3
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 - Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Adrienne Nogueira Batista
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
