Report No. 913a-IN                                                                N$
India                                                                 to V
Appraisal of
Fourth Power Transmission Project
December 23, 1975
Power Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                      -    Rs 8.0 /a
Rs 1                       -    US$0.125
Rs 1,000                   -    US$125
Rs 1,000,000               -    US$125,000
Rs 1                       -    Paise 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUI-VALENT
One Kilovolt (KV)                     -    1 ,000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)                     -    1,000 Kilowatts
One Megavolt Ampere (MVA)             -    1,000 Kilovolt Amperes
One Kilometer (Km)                    -    0.62 Miles
One Gigawatthour (Gwh)                -    One Million Kilowatt Hours
ABBREVIATIONS
CEA                        -    Central Electricity Authority
CWPC                       -    Central Water and Power Commission
GOI                        -    Government of India
LIC                        -    Life Insurance Corporation of India
RE                         -    Rural Electrification
REB                        -    Regional Electricity Board
REC                        -    Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB                        -    State Electricity Board
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/a   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket'
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.00, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................              1
II.   ThE POWER SECTOR ...................................         2
Organization of the Industry .....      ................    2
Generating Companies and Regional Integration  ....   6
Regional Electricity Boards .....      .................   6
Power Sector Characteristics and Facilities   ......   7
Existing Power Facilities .....     ..............    7
Power Supply/Demand Balance ....     .............   8
Development Program .....      ....................    9
Planning and Investment Programs ....    ........  11
III.   THE BORROWER ANiD THE BENEFICIARIES .....     ...............  12
Organization & Management .....      ...................  12
Electricity (Supply) Act 1948 .....      ...............  13
Objectives of Amendment of the Act ....     ...........  14
Federal Income Tax ......      .........................   14
Electricity Tariffs and Structure ....     ............  15
Capitalization of Interest during Construction ...   15
IV.   THE  PROJECT   ........................                     15
Procurement ............  16
Disbursements ............    17
Estimated Cost of Part A of the Project                17
Engineering and Construction .19
Additional financing for Power Transmission
Project III (Credit 377-IN) .20
V.   JUSTIFICATION OF PART A OF THE PROJECT          .21
VI. FINANCIAL SITUATION .23
General Background .23
Past and Present Earnings .24
Future Earnings .25
State Subsidy for RE Operations .26



-2-
Page No.
Bihar SEB's Fuel Clause ......       ....................  2,7
Consumer/Employee Ratios in Bihar and West Bengal    27
Interest Arrears on State Government Loans .28
Future Financial Position .28
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM MENNDTIN .............31
ANNEXES
1         Reactivation of the Central Electricity Authority
2         Present Power Shortage
3.1       Electricity Supply - Installed Capacity
3.2       Relative Shares in Net Electricity Consumption
3.3       Electricity Consumption in Selected Manufacturing Industries
3.4       Number of Villages Electrified and Irrigation Pumpsets/
Tubewells Energized
3.5       Per Capita Electricity Consumption by States
4         Extract from Electricity (Supply Act) 1948
5         Proposed Amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948
6.1       Estimated Cost of Equipment Required for Part A of the Project
6.2       Estimated Cost of Equipment Maharashtra SEB
6.3       Estimated Cost of Equipment Gujarat SEB
6.4       Estimated Cost of Equipment Bihar SEB
6.5       Estimated Cost of Equipment West Bengal SEB
7         Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.1       Maharashtra SEB - Income Statement - FY 1972-1979
8.2                        - Balance Sheets at March 31 - FY 1972-79
9.1       Gujarat SEB      - Income Statement FY 1971-79
9.2                        - Balance Sheets at March 31 - FY 1972-79
10.1       Bihar SEB        - Income Statement - FY 1972-79
10.2                        - Revenue Distribution & Funds for Investment -
FY 1973-79
10.3                        - Source & Application of Funds - FY 1976-79
10.4                        - Balance Sheets at March 31 - FY 1972-79
11.1       West Bengal SEB - Income Statement - FY 1972-79
11.2                        - Balance Sheets at March 31 - FY 1972-79
MAPS
IBRD 2833 Ri   -    Regional Power Boards
IBRD 11193     -    Western Regional Grid
IBRD 11194     -    Eastern Regional Grid



INDIA
FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India (GOI) has requested financial assistance
from the Association in support of its power development program. A credit
of US$150 million is proposed to provide US$118 million to finance the
transmission lines and substation facilities to be constructed by the
Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal State Electricity Boards (SEBs)
and regional load despatch and communication facilities to be installed by
the Eastern and Western Regional Electricity Boards; US$2 million for system
planning studies to be managed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA)
and US$30 million to finance the increased cost of equipment and materials
under the Third Transmission Project (Credit 377-IN).
ii.       The proposed credit would be the fourth in a series for expansion
of the Indian transmission system.
iii.      The Bank has made seven loans to India for power projects aggre-
gating US$179.5 million, and the Association seven credits totalling US$296
million.
iv.       Under the Constitution of the Republic of India, electricity is
a concurrent subject, making it within the jurisdiction of both the Central
and the State Governments. The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 places primary
responsibility for generation, transmission and distribution on the States,
and makes the Center primarily responsible for national power policy, guid-
ance and coordination. The Center is presently responsible for nuclear
power generation. At the planning and technical levels various services
were, until recently, provided centrally by the Power Wing of the Central
Water and Power Commission (CWPC). It had no formal status independent
of the responsible Ministry, and no powers to direct or control or carry
out independent investigations. It relied on its powers of persuasion
to achieve its objectives. The power function of the CWPC has now been
transferred to a more meaningful CEA presently being organized, report-
ing to the Ministry of Energy.
v.        GOI proposes to supplement the efforts of the States, with a view
to providing sufficient generating capacity to meet the requirements of the
Sixth Plan period (FY80-84). This will involve construction of a number of
very large centrally owned generating stations.
vi.       Procurement would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding, subject to a domestic preference of 15% in evaluating bids. Dis-
bursements would be made against the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and
materials and the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and
materials.



vii.      SEBs finances have been unsatisfactory ever since they were
established some 15-20 years ago. In 1964, a Government Committee
recommended that SEBs should become financially self-sufficient, and
that tariffs should be raised gradually to achieve a 9-1/2% rate of
return. The Bank identified itself with this policy even though it t
realized the rate base, valued at historic costs, would overstate the
rate of return. Recent and proposed implementation of tariff increases,
together with State subsidies to cover losses from rural electrification
operations should now enable Mlaharashtra and Gujarat SEBs to achieve the
9-1/2% target rates of return in FY 1977, Bihar SEB by FY 1978, and West
Bengal by FY 1979.
viii.     Credit 377-IN (Power Transmission III) established obligations
on the part of beneficiary States to assume liability for losses from rural
electrification operations by their SEBs, and to relieve SEBs of the accu-
mulated liabilities for interest on State Government loans unpaid due to
insufficient revenues arising from low tariffs. Similar obligations by
beneficiary States will be established by the proposed credit. Also, during
negotiations, agreement was reached on the specific modifications of the
Electricity (Supply) Act 1948 required to give greater responsibilities to
SEBs for decisions concerning their financial operation (including tariff
setting) and financial viability and to enlarge the scope and functions of
the CEA.
ix.       The Project would constitute a suitable basis for a Credit of
US$150 million.



INDIA
FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India has requested assistance from the Associa-
tion in support of its power development program. A credit of US$150 million
is proposed. It would provide US$2 million for consultants' services in
carrying out system planning studies and US$30 million to finance the in-
creased cost of equipment and materials under the Third Transmission Project
(Credit 377-IN). The balance of US$118 million would finance about 2,800
circuit km of 220 kv overhead transmission lines, about 15 km of 220 kv and
132 kv underground cable, and substation equipment required to increase the
capacity of 30 substations by about 2,700 MVA, to be undertaken by four
SEBs. 1/ Also included is equipment to improve system operations, and
to further expand load dispatch facilities in the SEB systems and at the
Eastern and Western Regional Load Despatch Stations. 2/ This would cover
about 20% of the investment in the high voltage transmission expansion
program of the beneficiary States during the period 1976/77 through 1978/79.
1.02      The Bank has made seven loans to India for power projects amount-
ing to US$179.5 million, and IDA seven credits totalling US$296 million.
US$165.5 million was to finance the construction of generating plant, US$23
million for the purchase of construction equipment for the Beas hydroelectric
project, US$230 million for high voltage transmission and US$57 million for Rural
Electrification. All the loans and credits for the generating plant and the
Beas project have been fully disbursed. Of the finance made available for
transmission (Loan 416-IN of June 1965 - US$70 million, Credit 242-IN of May
1971 - US$75 million, and Credit 377-IN of May 1973 - US$85 million), Loan
416-IN is fully disbursed, and US$28.7 million of Credit 242-IN and US$2.8 mil-
lion of Credit 377-IN have been disbursed as of November 30, 1975. All con-
tracts for Credit 242-IN and the majority of contracts for Credit 377-IN have
been awarded and the rate of disbursement for both credits should increase
rapidly in the near future. The low figures for disbursements in both credits
can be attributed to the fact that for most contracts no down payments are
called for and payments are made only on shipment of the goods - normally 18-24
months after the placing of orders, and to initial delays in the preparation
of acceptable bidding documents. The latter problem should not recur in this
project.
1/   The State Electricity Boards of Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West
Bengal. These SEBs were selected by GOI in consultation with the
Association with the intention of concentrating on transmission invest-
ments in the Eastern & Western Regions. All four SEBs were beneficiaries
of Power Transmission Projects I & II (Loan 416-IN and Credit 242-IN).
2/   Operated by the Eastern and Western Regional Electricity Boards whichi
would also be beneficiaries.



- 2 -
1.03      Loan 416-IN (Power Transmission Project I) had two important object-
ives. The first was to expand high voltage transmission to interconnect net-
works within each of the State systems, and the second was to improve sector
earnings and bring about some uniformity of accounting among the SEBs. All
the fifteen SEBs then in existence, their State Governments and Delhi
Electricity Supply Undertaking gave undertakings to GOI to achieve specified
rates of return by certain dates in the future.  These targets were found
to be unrealistic, and were revised in 1969 by excluding  work in progress
from the capital base and extending the times within which the specified
target returns were to be achieved.
1.04      Although earnings have increased generally, performance has con-
tinued to be unsatisfactory, largely due to the SEBs' assuming too large a
responsibility for implementing rural electrification policies, the reluc-
tance by State Governments to raise tariffs and, most generally, the
impossibility in the early years of meeting the high operating costs of the
initial low density rural electrification (RE) installations.
1.05      Credits 242-IN and 377-IN (Power Transmission Projects II and III)
continued the main objectives of improving power transmission systems and
progressive institutional improvements, particularly activating the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA), initiating preparation of a comprehensive
power development plan requiring updating annually, and improving the finan-
cial management of SEBs. The proposed credit would continue the expansio.a
of the network, and contribute toward better regionally oriented technical,
economic and financial planning; amendment of the Electricity (Supply) Act
would give SEB managements greater responsibilities for financial operations,
including tariff setting, and provide a meaningful framework for focusing
on SEBs' financial viability.
1.06      This report is based on information obtained by Messrs. J. Beach,
J. Carver and S. S. Scales during a mission to India in April/May 1974, by
Mr. J. Beach in March 1975 and by Mr. S. S. Scales in May/June 1975.
II.  THE POWER SECTOR
2.   Organization of the Industry
2.01      The manner in which the electricity supply industry is at present
organized was broadly determined by the provisions of the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948. In particular, the Act provided for the establishment of what
are now the principal agencies in the industry, the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs). The SEBs were assigned responsibility for the generation, transmis-
sion and distribution of electricity within each State, and for the control
and regulation of other supply undertakings which were private licensees.



This responsibility includes the construction of new power stations an, tb!
operation and extension of the systems within each State. Private licensees
operate mostly in urban areas and their relative importance in the sector is
expected to diminish over time. At present the State authorities effectively
own or control the sources of well over 90 percent of electricity supply by
utilities; in addition, their sanction is required for the installation of
all captive plants within their borders.
2.02      As originally conceived, the SEBs were to be autonomous public
corporations, responsible for running their own operations subject only
to broad instructions and guidance in policy matters from State governments.
In practice, the SEBs have been very much under the control of the State
governments, rather along the lines of the Public Works Departments in which
most of them have their origins. One symptom of this dependence, and at the
same time a factor which helps to maintain it, is the chronic financial
weakness of most SEBs. The SEBs' financial operations are discussed in
more detail in Chapter VI.
2.03      The Indian power sector is constitutionally complex because
electricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction of the Central
Government and the State Governments, according to the Constitution and to
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. Thus, while the Act assigned extensive
responsibilities to the State authorities, it also provided for broad guidance
and coordination from the Center. These were to be supplied by a Central
Electricity Authority (CEA), which was to be responsible for developing a
national policy for power development and for coordinating the activities
of the various planning agencies involved in electricity supply.   But al-
though the CEA was formally created in 1950, it has, until recently, remained
for the most part inoperative, without staff of its own and with no clear
and accepted function to perform.
2.04      For most of the electricity supply industry, the Central Government
agency most involved until recently was the Ministry of Irrigation and Power,
specifically, the Power Wing of its Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC).
However, as a result of administrative changes introduced in October 1974,
responsibility for power now comes under the Ministry of Energy, which is
also in charge of the coal mining industry. For atomic energy, and hence
for nuclear power generation, there was and remains a separate Department
of Atomic Energy which comes directly under the Prime Minister. Until re-
cently, the CWPC was responsible through its Power Wing for the implementa-
tion of Central as opposed to State or private power schemes. In relation
to the latter it undertook such functions as appraisal of projects proposed
by the SEBs, provision of technical advice and consultancy services on all
aspects of power design and engineering. Its effectiveness in this capacity
was, however, constrained by an important limitation which does not bind the
CEA, the CWPC being simply a technical advisory subordinate agency of the
Ministry of Energy. It had no formal status independent of the responsible
Ministry (as did the CEA), and no powers to direct or control or to carry
out independent investigations of its own. To achieve its objectives it



- 4 -
relied solely upon its powers of "persuasion." In connection with the Power
Transmission III Project (Credit 377-IN of May 1973), the GOI agreed its
understanding that further Bank Group financial assistance to the sector
would be contingent upon a meaningful reactivation of the CEA. For several
months following this understanding, there was little evidence to suggest
that any action was being taken in this direction and, as a result, the
processing of the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 572-IN - appraised
in May 1973 - and of this proposed project, initially appraised in April
1974), was considerably delayed.
2.05      Following the establishment in October 1974 of the Ministry of
Energy, the functions of the Central Water and Power Commission were split.
The irrigation function is now being undertaken by the Central Water Commis-
sion reporting to the Ministry of Agriculture. The power function has been
transferred to the CEA reporting to the Ministry of Energy. This has involved
the transfer of the Power Wing of the former CWPC to the CEA. Much still
requires to be done to complete "reactivation" but an important step forward
has been taken. A mission which visited India in March 1975, to discuss the
reactivation of the CEA with officials of the Ministries of Energy and
Finance, and the Planning Commission, concluded that although the new
organization was not yet complete and was therefore not fully operational,
sufficient progress has been made to warrant a resumption of Bank Group
lending to the sector. The extent to which the CEA will be able to ensure
effective implementation of its recommendations by State authorities remains
to be seen, but its reactivation represents an important step toward an
integrated national approach to the power sector.
2.06      Proposed amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 have
been drafted by the GOI because it is evident that in the interest of the
development of the power industry it is necessary to enlarge the scope and
the functions of the CEA. In addition to its general duty of developing
a sound, adequate and uniform national power policy and coordinating the
activities of the planning agencies in relation to the control and utiliza-
tion of national power resources, new functions would be assigned to it,
e.g. formulation of short-term and perspective plans for power development,
training of personnel, interconnected system operations and research and
development. The proposed amendments also cover the establishment of
generating companies by the Central Government as well as by State Govern-
ments to build up expertise in the field of generation to enable construction
of generating stations in a shorter time and to operate them with greater
efficiency (para 2.10). These proposed amendments together with those relat-
ing to the financial provision of the Act (para 3.07) were discussed and
agreed during negotiations. An ordinance incorporating the agreed amendments
to the general provisions is expected to be issued before the end of January
1976. The proposed amendments to the financial provisions have been circulated
to the States for comments and, after final drafting and approval by the
Cabinet are expected to be ready for submission to Parliament (or issued as
an ordinance if Parliament is not in session) by April or May 1976; however
legislative enactment is not likely before the end of July 1976.



- 5 -
2.07      An order dated August 12, 1975, promulgated by the President of
India, details the new organizational structure of the CEA and describes the
functions of its Chairman and Members (Annex 1). Although the Order gives
immediate effect to the new organization, the appointment of the full
complement of members is subject to amendment of the Act referred to in
para 2.06.
2.08      The CEA will consist of not more than seven full-time members
including its Chairman and not more than six part-time members, all appointed
by the Central Government. The full-time members would be required to have
experience of and have shown capacity in the design, construction, operation
and maintenance of generating stations or transmission and distribution of
electricity, applied economics, industrial, commercial or financial matters
or applied research in the field of electricity. The Chairman would be
responsible for the overall coordination and control over the functioning
of the CEA; administration, research and development; and all matters relating
to the legal aspects of the Electricity (Supply) Act and the Indian Electricity
Act and Rules. Members with appropriate qualifications would be responsible
for Planning, Power Systems, Thermal and Hydroelectric design and construc-
tion, Operations and Economic and Commercial matters. Part-time members
would be appointed from time to time to assist the CEA in specialized fields.
In view of the importance which the Association attaches to improving the
financial and operational results of the SEBs, the mission stressed the need
for the Member responsible for Economic and Commercial matters to be very
well qualified in financial management. Four of the full-time members have
already been transferred to the CEA from the former CWPC. In order to
ensure that well-qualified personnel are selected for the remaining posts
(including that of Chairman) the GOI is proceeding cautiously. However, in
view of the importance of having the CEA fully operational as quickly as
possible, the appointment of the Chairman is a Condition of Effectiveness.
2.09      Other agencies at the Center are also concerned in the decisions
relating to the planning and financing of electric power.  In particular,
the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission are involved in the
appraisal and sanction of major power projects and in the financial provi-
sions for investment in electricity supply. Since the power industry is
highly capital intensive and has grown in India at an extremely rapid rate,
it has taken a consistently large share of aggregate investment. For the
Fourth Plan period as a whole (FY1970 through FY1974), the estimated share of
power in total Plan outlays was over one-sixth. This exceeds the figure for
agriculture, and is almost as large as the share for industries and minerals.
Moreover, loans for power development are much the largest single item in
the borrowings of State governments from the Center. Hence, the investment
program in the power sector is necessarily a matter of continuing concern
to the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission, because of the large
amounts involved.



Generating Companies and Regional Integration
2.10      In view of the immense task of providing sufficient generating
capacity to meet the requirements of the Sixth Plan period (FY1980 through
FY1984) the GOI proposes to supplement the efforts of the States by con-
structing a number of very large (1,000-2,000 MW) generating stations. For
this purpose, two Central Generating Companies, one for hydro and the other
for thermal plant have recently been established. These have been set up
under the Companies Act and would be accountable to the OI through the
Ministry of Energy for the construction, ownership and operation of the
generating and bulk transmission facilities which, because of their size,
would be required to transmit energy generated directly to neighboring States
as well as to the system in which they are constructed. It is believed that
these new large facilities will help to speed attainment of meaningful regional
integrated operation. The selection of the senior executives for the two
companies is being processed by the Public Enterprises Selection Board. As
certain statutory rights are to be assigned to them, the GOI is drafting the
required amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 to give them
statutory recognition (para 2.06). These amendments would also cover the
setting up of generating companies by State Governments with a view to
optimizing generation and developing professional expertise in the construction,
operation and maintenance of generating stations and associated transmission
lines. The extent to which the new generating companies would take over iad
run existing SEB generating stations would be decided by the respective State
Governments. Also likely to help accelerate the integration of regional
operations is the imminent start of a US$1.1 million equivalent UNDP-assisted
project designed to help the CEA establish a System Operations Organization
capable of meeting the future coordination and control needs of the Indian
electricity supply system, and to provide modern training in the field of
load dispatching.
Regional Electricity Boards
2.11      As a means of improving collaboration between the SEBs, and to
establishing power systems on a regional rather than a State basis, five
Regional Electricity Boards were formed during the period 1964-66. The
general functions of the Boards are to review the progress of regional power
development schemes, plan the integrated operation of the constituent power
systems for the maximum benefit of the regions as a whole, coordinate overhaul
and maintenance programs, determine generation schedules to be followed and
the power available from time to time for transfer between States and determine
a suitable tariff structure to govern exchange of power within the Region.
To carry out these functions, each Regional Board is staffed by personnel
seconded from the constituent SEBs which are also responsible for the pay-
ment of their salaries (except for the member Secretary who is appointed
by the CEA). For example, in the case of the Southern Regional Electricity
Board this consists of a Member-Secretary, two Superintending Engineers, seven
Executive Engineers, two Assistant Directors, fourteen Assistant Executive
Engineers and supporting technical staff. The Boards are nominally subject
to CEA control, but in practice they function mainly in an advisory role to



- 7 -
the SEBs, over which they have no power, and which are strongly represented
on them. Thus, the extent to which regional planning can be undertaken depends
on the interests and attitudes of the individual constituent SEBs and of their
State Governments. The progress of collaboration has been greatest in the
Southern Region, where the regional load dispatch center at Bangalore has
successfully encouraged the exchange of power between State networks and made
possible a higher utilization of plant capacity within the region. Other
regions are moving more slowly to effective collaboration, but in all regions
regional and State load dispatch stations are being set up (most of the
equipment for which has been, or will be, financed by Credits 242-IN and
377-IN and by the credit now proposed). Such stations are a pre-requisite
to integrated regional operation.
Power Sector Characteristics and Facilities
Existing Power Facilities
2.12      By the end of the Fourth Plan period, March 31, 1974, the total
installed generating capacity for the whole of India was 18,456 MW of which
16,664 MW was operated by utilities. Basically, the Northern Region (exclu-
ding Uttar Pradesh) and the Southern Region rely primarily on hydro-electric
capacity whereas the rest of the country is predominantly thermal.
Installed Generating Capacity (March 31, 1974) in MW
Thermal
and
Region                    Hydro     Nuclear         Total   % Hydro
Northern (excluding Uttar Pradesh)  1593         850           2443       65
Uttar Pradesh                         598       1007           1605       37
Western                               1044      3200           4244       25
Southern                             3094       1430           4524       68
Eastern                               572       3095           3667       16
North-Eastern                           65       116            181       36
Sub-total, Utilities                 6966       9698          16664       42
Non-Utilities (approximate)            -        1792           1792
Grand Total                          6966      11490          18456
/a   The non-utilities capacity of about 1792 MW, mostly thermal, is owned
by consumers (steel, coal, railways, etc.) to meet their own needs.
In the cases of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation in Tamil Nadu, the
Renusagar Company in Uttar Pradesh and the Chola Power Station of
Central Railways in Maharashtra, the operation is coordinated with
the utility power stations.



-8-
2.13      The share of hydro capacity has fallen from about 43% in 1970/71
to 42% as of the end of 1973/74. Based on projects planned to be implemented
during the Fifth Plan period, this share will remain essentially constant,
falling to about 40% by 1979. Conventional thermal plant, predominantly
coal-fired, presently accounts for 53% of total installed capacity, the
remainder being diesel (2%) and nuclear (3%). (Annex 3.1).
Power Supply/Demand Balance
2.14      India's installed power generating capacity increased at an aver-
age annual rate of 10.3% over the 20-year period from the end of 1950, while
gross electricity generation grew at 11.6%. Demand was, however, consistently
greater than the available supply in recent years, with the result that the
power sector has been characterized by local and intermittent shortages.
This situation has been due to a number of factors (see Annex 2), including
failure to properly plan implementation of projects in accordance with
planned schedules, delays in the construction of new generation projects,
the lateness or inadequacy of additions to transmission and distribution
facilities, and operating and maintenance problems. Many of these problems
might not have arisen had the Center played a more effective role in project
implementation, monitoring of performance, giving necessary directions and
assisting states in the procurement of scarce materials. During the last
two years of the Fourth Plan period, the power supply situation became
critical, since the above problems were exacerbated by the failure of two
successive monsoons, leading to lower output from hydro plants, and by
interruptions in coal supplies for the power sector, which had an adverse
impact on thermal generation. Since July 1975, the situation has consider-
ably improved.
2.15      Thus, events fell far short of the ambitious targets for the
Fourth Plan. Installed generating capacity reached 18.5 million KW by the
end of 1973/74, compared to a target of 23 million KW. Since then, power
supply has increased considerably, due, in no small measure, to the better
utilization of existing thermal plant, the commissioning of new capacity,
and additional interconnection of generating facilities. Figures for the
year ended March 1975 indicate a 9.2% increase in installed capacity and a
3.5% increase in electricity generation. The latter figure would have been
considerably higher but for the fact that some of the new capacity was
commissioned towards the end of the year and 1974/75 was also a particularly
bad year for hydro generation.
2.16      Power cuts have affected the economic output of the country, parti-
cularly in the industrial sector. In accordance with GOI and State priority
policies, agricultural loads have generally been met satisfactorily with
regard to energy requirements even though load rostering had to be instituted,
i.e., farmers were restricted in most States to utilizing their pumpsets
during certain hours of the day only. But power consumption by industry has
had to be severely curtailed, often by as much as 50%. The cost in terms
of industrial production foregone has been substantial but no comprehensive
data are available on this.



- 9 -
2.17      The following table indicates the present size and recent growth
of the combined public and private power sector in India:
Average Annual
1974/75   Increase 1965/75
Installed Capacity (NW)                20,149         7.9
Energy Generated (Qwh)                 75,300         8.3
Energy Consumed (Gwh)                  57,800         7.3
Generation per Capita (kwh)               125         6.0
Consumption per Capita (kwh)               97         5.1
Towns and Villages Electrified        165,500        15.5
Irrigation Pumpsets Electrified   2,633,000          20.0
2.18      The pattern of consumption of electrical energy for the years
1965/66 and 1973/74 was as follows:
1965/66              1973/74
Percentages
Agriculture and Irrigation              6.3                 12.6
Railway Traction                        3.5                 3.1
Industry /a                            72.8                64.6
Commercial and Government               5.5                 6.0
Public Lighting                         0.9                  1.0
DOmestic                                7.8                 9.2
Public Waterworks, Drainage
and Miscellaneous                     3.2                 3.5
/a   Including non-utilities, of which the output goes almost entirely to
industry.
This pattern is expected to remain about the same except that, as a result
of the massive ongoing and planned rural electrification and minor irriga-
tion programs, agriculture's share will increase, most likely at the expense
of industry. Other particulars relevant to the sector are given in Annexes
3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5.
Development Program
2.19      In respect of public utilities only, planning for the period
1974/75 through 1978/79 envisaged an all-India consumption of 100,000 Gwh
in 1978/79 from an assumed base of 62,000 Gwh in 1973/74 - an average annual
growth rate of 10%. Generation requirements were estimated at 130,000 Gwh
for 1978/79 with an estimated installed capacity of 33,000 MW. It was planned
to construct 400 Kv transmission lines in some States and 220 Kv lines were
to be extended to enable further integration of the State systems into five



- lu -
Regional Grid Systems. Total capital investment by the States, Union
Territories and directly by GOI was estimated at Rs 62 billion, of which 54%
was for generation, 26% for transmission/distribution and 18% for rural
electrification:
Planned Investment for Power (1974/75-1978/79)
(Rs Million)
States    Union Territories       GOI     Total
Generation           27,658              150         5,430     33,238
Transmission/
Distribution        14,298              745         1,300     16,343
Rural Electrifica-
tion                4,085              187         6,710     10,982
Miscellaneous           674               15           648       1,337
TOTAL     -          46,715            1,097        14,088     61,900
Source: Draft Fifth Plan.
The GOI investment in rural electrification would be made through the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC).
2.20      Although project implementation is improving, there are already
indications that the above ambitious targets will not be achieved. For
example, consumption in 1973/74 was 55,688 Gwh and for 1974/75 was only
57,800 Gwh so that even if a 10% annual growth for the remainder of the
period were to be achieved, consumption in 1978/79 would not exceed 85,000
Gwh. Further, a recent energy sector review by the Bank 1/ which examined
the production capability of the Indian manufacturers who would be the
major source of supply of generating plant, estimated there would be a
shortfall of almost 5,000 MW in capacity planned to be added during the
five-year period resulting in a total installed capacity of 28,000 MW rather
than the 33,000 MW envisaged at the planning stage. This shortfall is due
in the main to late ordering of plant because of the inability of SEBs to
make the necessary downpayments rather than the manufacturers' inability to
deliver.
2.21      As with generation, the construction program for the expansion of
transmission facilities has lagged considerably. Losses have increased in
recent years, mainly because of insufficient investment in transmission and
distribution. Financial outlay on transmission/distribution was 57% of the
outlay for generation during the period 1969/70-1973/74, a rather low
proportion - particularly fo5 a large country with a relatively low load
density of about 5 Kw per km . As planned, the proportion is even lower at
49% during the 1974/75-1978/79 period. This will make it difficult for
interstate and inter-regional transmission capacity to keep pace with the
1/   "India:  The Energy Sector" - P.D. Henderson. 1975.



- 11 -
development of generating capacity so as to permit better integration of
power operations throughout the country - in spite of the heavy investmeilt
being made in State and regional load dispatch facilities.
Planning and Investment Programs
2.22      Some of the shortcomings mentioned above can be ascribed to a major
weakness of the sector, the weakness of long-term planning for expansion and
operation of the power systems of the country. It has been increasingly
recognized in India that the planning and operation of electricity supply
can be effectively undertaken only on the basis of more extensive geographical
areas than those of the individual States. In the early stages of power
development, the industry consisted of widely scattered small units at each
of the various load centers, with a very rudimentary network of connections
between them. There was no interconnected power system covering the country
as a whole or even any substantial part of it.
2.23      Over the past twenty years or so, this system has radically changed.
The level of power generation has risen by a factor of eight. Advances in
the techniques of high voltage transmission in India, as elsewhere, have
greatly extended the distances over which power can be transmitted at low
cost. Partly because of transmission improvements, but also because of
major world-wide technical developments in the process of generation itself,
the size of generating units has considerably increased.
2.24      Because of these developments, which are progressively being adopted
in India as the power system continues to grow, it has become desirable to
think in terms of minimizing the cost of providing power within increasingly
large interconnected systems. The advantages of a systems approach extend
both to day-to-day operations and to longer-term planning. A step in the
right direction is being taken in the proposal to build a number of "super"
thermal stations (para 2.10) which will serve a number of States in a
large geographical area.
2.25      Nevertheless, at the present time the development and utilization
of power in India on a national scale must be recognized as sub-optimal
because of the limited State perspectives governing the development of
generation (particularly hydro) and major transmission facilities. There is
no comprehensive least-cost evaluation from a regional point of view of
alternative means to meet demand. This is a situation which the CEA will
have to correct. The proposed amendments to the Act (para 2.06) provide
that no scheme costing more than Rs 50 million may be implemented without
approval of the CEA.
2.26      In connection with Credit 377-IN (Power Transmission III Project)
the GOI undertook to strengthen the coordination of its planning in the
power sector with the work of other of its agencies operating in the field
of energy planning, to extend the scope of such planning to cover a 15-year
period and to initiate the preparation of a comprehensive power development



- 12 -
plan to be updated annually. Such long-term planning as is now being carried
out appears to be mainly in the area of load forecasting. This is only part
of the long-term planning process. Much more is required and, during
negotiations, the Borrower agreed to prepare a statement on the proposed
content, methodology and schedule for the preparation of the National Plan
for Power Development to be formulated by the CEA. It is expected that the
statement will be available for review by the Association by the end of
June 1976, following which the CEA would undertake a program to conduct
comprehensive technical, economic and financial planning studies on a
regional and national basis in order to produce a long-term plan for power
development in India and help develop the necessary expertise within the
CEA. The CEA would determine the areas in which they would require assis-
tance from consultants. The proposed credit would include US$2 million to
help finance such assistance.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
3.01      The Borrower of the proposed Credit would be the Government of
India. The Beneficiaries would be the SEBs of Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra
and West Bengal, and the Eastern and Western Regional Electricity Boards
for transmission lines, substation equipment, load despatch and communica-
tion equipment to be constructed or installed during the period 1976/77-
1978/79. The system planning studies would be managed by the CEA. Addi-
tional financing for Credit 377-IN would be made available to the eleven
Beneficiaries of that Credit (the SEBs of Assam, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu; the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking;
the Beas Construction Board; the Southern and Northern Regional Electricity
Boards; and the Tata Power Company, a private company in Bombay).
Organization and Management
3.02      The SEBs are corporate bodies.  They normally have from three to
seven members appointed by the State Government. One full-time member must
have commercial and administrative experience, a second electrical engineering
experience, and a third accounting and financial experience preferably in a
public utility undertaking. One of these is appointed chairman. Any addi-
tional members would serve part-time, and would either be Government officers
or persons who represent trade unions, commerce and industry. Tenure of
office varies among States. Chairmen are appointed for one to five years
with no certainty of continuing in the office for the full term. Many of
the more senior staff are public servants "on deputation" who are employed
by the SEBs for comparatively short periods. This often introduces a lack
of continuity in work performance and has an adverse effect on the Board's
own staff.



. - 13 -
3.03      SEBs' financial position has never been satisfactory due largely
to the limited authority given to them for raising tariffs, the lack of
definition of the type of expense to be covered by tariffs, the low tariffs,
and the constraints imposed by the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948
3.04      The SEB's authority to adjust its tariffs is limited to providing
revenue sufficient to cover its expenses of operation, maintenance and
management before depreciation and interest. Tariffs to provide revenue
in excess of this are only set by the SEB after State Government approval.
An extract of the financial provisions of the Act relating to SEB finance,
accounts and audit is set out in Annex 4.  It provides, among other tlings:
(a)  that an SEB should not operate at a loss (Section 59),
which means only that revenues are supposed to cover
the cash costs of operation, not depreciation or interest.
Apart from giving authority to the SEB to adjust its charges
accordingly, the Act contains no further reference to tariffs;
(b)  in the event of a Section 59 surplus, the order of priority
for its distribution (Section 67);
(c)  for the manner in which depreciation may be utilized,
and for annual depreciation being calculated on the
original or historic cost of depreciable assets
(Section 68).
(d)  adequate authority for an SEB to borrow but little
authority (no requirement) to service debt.   To do
this, Section 59 surplus would have to be large enough
to meet interest on all debt in the manner defined in
Section 67 and depreciation would have to be large enough
to cover repayment of loans, other than those advanced
by the State Government. In view of the provision that
the SEB should not operate at a loss, such expenses as
depreciation and interest are recorded in the accounts
only to the extent that the Section 59 revenue surplus
can meet them.
3.05      These provisions follow an accounting philosophy commonly referred
to as a 'cash concept' which bases the entries in the books on the receipt
and payment of money, or recognizes in the income accounts only those
transactions which are realized in cash. This concept is not suitable for a
public utility operation.



- 14 -
Objectives of Amendment of the Act
3.06      The objectives which are sought in connection with the proposed
amendment of the Act would be:
(a) to make SEB management responsible for decisions
concerning their financial operations and to ensure
revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses including
depreciation, taxes and interest, amortization of debt
in excess of provisions for depreciation, increases
in working capital, dividends (if any) and a reasonable
proportion of the cost of future construction;
(b) to provide SEBs with statutory authority to set tariffs to
meet these expenses;
(c) to make SEBs responsible for servicing their debt and for
their over-all financial planning generally;
(d) to introduce provisions enabling the:
(i)  issue of equity shares, within limits
approved by the State Government,
(ii)  payment of dividends, and
(iii)  fixed assets to be revalued from time
to time on a current value basis, with
depreciation suitably recalculated;
(e) to provide a basis for improving SEB accounting practices.
3.07      The proposed amendments were discussed and the final amendments
agreed between the GOI representatives and the Association are set out in
Annex 5. Draft legislation is expected to be ready for submission to the
Indian Parliament by May 1976, but legislative enactment is unlikely before
the end of July 1976.
Federal Income Tax
3.08      Until recently SEBs were liable for Federal tax at approximately
57% of net income after interest and an allowance for construction expenditure
known as a development rebate. Few SEBs have paid tax in view of their low
earnings. However, the development rebate was recently withdrawn by GOI,
which means that SEBs will become liable to tax on a lower level of profit.
It is unlikely that State Governments would ever agree to tariff levels
which would subject SEBs to significant Federal tax, since this would
reduce SEB funds otherwise available for sector investment. This is a



- 15 -
serious problem, not unique to the power sector, but with more significant
implications for it than for most others. The Government will revievw tzh:
problem with a view to avoiding the disincentive to raising tariffs which
would exist in the face of the high Federal tax.
Electricity Tariffs and Structure
3.09      Recently, Bank Group staff have examined the tariff levels and
structure in relation to costs as they relate to Andhra Pradesh SEB. The
report indicates that existing tariffs 1/ generally are too low; that the
structure is exceptionally complicated, and that marginal cost based tariffs
would increase existing tariffs considerably. The report provides the
methodology required to duplicate the study in other States, and doing so
might at least focus attention on anomalies and point to the need for cor-
rective action. The Borrower has agreed to obtain by March 31, 1976 under-
takings satisfactory to the Association from the Maharashtra, Gujarat,
Bihar, and West Bengal SEBs:
(a)  to carry out a pricing study relating to
electricity supplied by the SEB based on the
marginal cost principles established in the "Study
of Electricity Tariffs in Andhra Pradesh;" and
(b)  to prepare by March 31, 1977 a report of its findings
including an analysis of the implications of such
findings on its finances.
It is expected that the CEA would assist SEBs with these studies.
Capitalization of Interest during Construction
3.10      In connection with Credit 377-IN, GOI undertook to provide the
State Governments and SEBs with appropriate guidelines for the capitali-
zation of interest during construction no later than December 31, 1973,
or another date agreed by the Association. The guidelines prepared were
inadequate and will remain so until the constraints of the existing Elec-
tricity (Supply) Act or of previous instructions are removed. The CXI,
through the CEA, agreed to prepare guidelines, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for the capitalization of interest during construction not later
than March 31, 1977.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The major part of the project (Part A) would consist of about
2,800 circuit km of 220 kv overhead transmission lines, about 15 km of
220 kv and 132 kv underground cables, and substation equipment required
to increase the capacity of 30 substations by about 2,700 MVA. Some of
1/  Andhra Pradesh SEB has since revised its tariffs by about 40% effective
from October 20, 1975.



- 16 -
the 220 kv transmission lines have been designed and will be constructed for
subsequent conversion to 400 kv operation. Also included in the Project
are capacitors or synchronous condensors to help improve system operations,
and power line carrier communication and telemetering equipment to further
improve communication and load dispatch facilities in the beneficiary States
and in the Eastern and Western Regional Boards. The individual transmission
lines and substations which together form the Project are indicated on the
maps attached. Map IBRD 2833 R shows the location of the five regional
grids of which the beneficiaries form part. Maps IBRD 11193 and 11194 show
the Western and Eastern Regional Grid networks, respectively, as now existing
and proposed, and the extensions which would be financed by the proposed
Credit. Annex 6 details the equipment and transmission line materials
required for each element of the Project.
4.02      The individual transmission lines and substations included in the
Project would be constructed by the beneficiary SEBs as part of their on-
going transmission expansion programs through 1978/79.
4.03      Part B of the project deals with the completion of sub-projects
undertaken by eleven other beneficiaries under Credit 377-IN. It is esti-
mated that US$45.8 million would be required for the purchase of equipment
and materials for completion of the projects and the proposed Credit would
include US$30 million for this purpose (see paragraphs 4.15 to 4.18). The
proposed Credit also includes engineering services to assist the CEA in
carrying out system planning studies on a countrywide basis (Part C of the
project). These studies are estimated to cost US$2.7 million of which US$2
million has been included in this Credit to finance such expenditures as
might be incurred on consultants (paragraph 2.26). The total cost of the
project is estimated at US$207.3 million.
Procurement
4.04      Procurement for all equipment to be financed from the proposed
Credit would be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Association's Guidelines. All bidding documentation, including
recommendations for award of contracts would be prepared by SEBs, vetted by
the CEA and approved by the Association. Except for a small number of spe-
cialized items of equipment not yet manufactured in India, local manufactur-
ers would be expected to bid for all categories of equipment. A domestic
preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever is less, would be applied
in bid evaluation. Based on procurement experience in Credit 242-IN and
more recently in Credit 377-IN, local manufacturers would be expected to win
a substantial proportion of the contract awards -- probably 100% of the
awards for towers, 90% for conductors and groundwire, 90% for insulators and
hardware and, not less than 80% for the remainder of the equipment except
for capacitors and high voltage underground cables which would most likely
be imported.
4.05      In order to prevent procurement delays to the extent possible,
the Borrower has agreed that when,after international competitive bidding



- 17 -
and the application of preferences in the manner described above, the lowest
evaluated bidder is a foreign manufacturer, permission to import will be
forthcoming immediately and no further review by any agency of the Government
will be made. Agreement to this effect was reached in connection with Credits
242 and 377-IN.
4.06      Although there was much improvement in the procurement process in
Credit 377-IN as compared to previous transmission credits, there is still
considerable delay, particularly in the time required to evaluate bids, and
further improvement is necessary. In the interests of expediting procure-
ment, the GOI has agreed that withdrawals will only be made from the Credit
Account in respect of equipment and materials for which an invitation to bid
has been issued within twelve months, and orders placed within eighteen
months of the signing of the Credit Agreement. Credit Funds not committed
by these dates would be cancelled. These are similar to the assurances
obtained in connection with Credits 242 and 377-IN. As the proposed bene-
ficiaries were also beneficiaries in Credit 242-IN, improved procurement
performance is expected.
Disbursements
4.07      Disbursements would be made against:
(a) the c.i.f. cost of substation equipment and
transmission line materials procured abroad; and
(b) the ex-factory cost of substation equipment and
transmission line materials procured in India after
international competitive bidding (para 4.04).
(c) the costs of consultants used in the preparation
of a system planning study.
Expenditures prior to the signing of the Credit would not be reimbursed. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 7.
Estimated Cost of Part A of the Project
4.08      Based on the estimates given in para 4.04 regarding the manner in
which contracts will be awarded as between Indian and foreign manufacturers
and on an assessment of the foreign exchange cost of locally manufactured
equipment and conductors, the foreign and local expenditures for Part A of
the project would be as follows:



- 18 -
Component                            Local       Foreign         Total
(US$ Millions)
Transmission Line and
Substation Equipment
Conductors                                 7.18          12.75         19.93
Towers                                    16.68           1.85         18.53
Insulators                                 2.84           1.11          3.95
Power Transformers                         4.97           5.38         10.35
Switchgear                                 5.66           4.43         10.09
Capacitors                                  -             3.75          3.75
PLCC/Load Dispatch                        10.02          11.80         21.82
Control Panels                             0.67           0.36          1.03
Power Cables                                 -            3.03          3.03
Miscellaneous                              0.60           0.65          1.25
Sub-total                            48.62          45.11        93.73
Physical Contingencies                     2.78           2.17          4.95
Price Contingencies                        9.11          10.21         19.32
Sub-total                            60.51         57.49        118.00
Associated Civil Works
Civil Works, Erection and Overheads       30.38            -           30.38
Physical Contingencies                     1.50            -            1.50
Price Contingencies for Civil Works        8.88            -            8.88
Sub-total                            40.76            -          40.76
Total                               101.27          57.49        158.76
4.09      The estimates were prepared by the SEBs in consultation with the
CEA and reviewed by the mission. They are based on ex-factory prices for
similar transmission line materials and substation equipment manufactured
in India, and recent prices of imported equipment. Physical contingency
requirements range between nil and 15% for different categories of equip-
ment but for the Project as a whole average about 5% which is considered
satisfactory. Price contingencies have been included to cover price in-
creases from the time the estimates were made (early 1975) until contracts
are awarded, and also to cover price escalation during manufacture. For
equipment, the price contingency amounts to 19.6%. For civil works and
erection the contingency amounts to 27.8%.
4.10      The estimated investment in HV  transmission programs, of which
Part A of the project forms part, being undertaken by the beneficiary SEBs



- 19 -
during the three-year period 1976/77 through 1978/79 is indicated in the
table below:
Investment in HV Transmission (1976/77-1978/79)
(US$ Million)
Transmission Projects
financed by Credit
SEB             Transmission Program   Total /            Credit
Maharashtra                   213             60.91            39.00
Gujarat                       117             44.39            27.00
Bihar                          89             24.57            19.00
West Bengal                     90            28.89            21.00
TOTAL                    509            158.76           106.00
/a   The figures in this column include items to be financed locally,
e.g. erection, civil works in foundations and buildings, overheads.
4.11      From the above table, it can be seen that the proposed credit
will finance about 20% of the three-year transmission expansion program
of the beneficiary States.
Engineering and Construction
4.12      Detailed planning, design and the preparation of bid documents
for the transmission lines and substations are undertaken by the technical
staff of the SEBs, which have satisfactory technical competence. They are
assisted, whenever necessary, by the CEA.
4.13      Many of the SEBs have built up competent construction departments
which would undertake the construction of many of the lines and substations.
There are in India a number of experienced contracting firms which would also
be employed to complement, as necessary, the work of the SEBs.
4.14      As in previous transmission credits to India, the Borrower has
agreed to obtain from each beneficiary SEB by March 31, 1976, an undertaking,
satisfactory to the Association, detailing the manner in which it will
execute its respective part of the project. Check dates to enable the
Association to monitor progress, including procurement action and initiation
and completion dates for individual transmission sub-projects would be
incorporated in the undertaking.



- 20 -
Additional financing for Power Transmission III Project (Credit 377-IN)
4.15      Included in the proposed credit is a sum of US$30 million to be
applied against cost increases, estimated at US$46 million, of transmission
line materials and substation equipment financed by Credit 377-IN (Power
Transmission III Project), (Part B of the project). The Association is
satisfied that there have been no substantial changes in the scope of the
project appraised in July 1972 and that the additional costs are due to
increased prices which occurred during the implementation stage of the
project and for which, given the circuswtances which have prevailed during
the course of the last two years, inadequate contingencies were allowed
in the project cost estimates (5% per annum).
4.16      The table below shows, for each category of equipment, the amount
allowed in the appraisal estimate and the value of contracts placed.
Appraisal      Contracts
Estimate        Placed   /1
(US$ million)
Conductors & Groundwire               22.8            30.7
Towers                                 9.4             18.1
Insulators and Hardware                3.3             6.2
Transformers                          14.4             19.1
Switchgear                             9.3             14.1
Capacitors                             3.7             4.1
Load Despatch/PLCC Equipment          10.6             13.8
Control and Relay Panels               1.5             2.0
Power Cables                           2.7              3.3
Miscellaneous Equipment                2.8              2.3
Sub-total             80.5            113.7
Price Contingencies                    4.5             17.1 /2
TOTAL                 85.0            130.8
/1   A small number of contracts still remain to be awarded.
/2   Estimated contingency to cover price escalation during
manufacture for which the contract documents allow, on
average, a ceiling of 15%.
4.17      The proposed additional financing to complete the schemes included
under Credit 377-IN must be viewed in the context of India's success in curb-
ing inflation and coping with a gigantic trade deficit while providing in-
creased budgetary and foreign exchange resources for essential investments



- 21 -
in key sectors. Inflation was reduced from a peak annual rate of 32% in
September 1974 to an annual rate of only 7% in March 1975 by the use of
tighter fiscal and monetary policies, by direct action on incomes, by the
importation of adequate volumes of food and by a good spring harvest. By
July 1975 the wholesale price index was 2.1% below the level of a year earlier.
Despite the recent slowdown of inflation, the cost of investment programs has
increased substantially in recent years. The power sector is no exception.
The Draft Fifth Plan, formulated in 1974, had proposed an investment pro-
gram of Rs 61.9 billion during the Plan period, i.e. 11.6% of total Plan
outlay. The 1975/76 Annual Plan calls for an investment of Rs 11.0 billion
in the power sector. In real terms, this represents a reduction of 41% in
the annual outlay implicit in the Draft Fifth Plan. Despite the reduction
in real terms, the share of the power sector in the 1975/76 Annual Plan is
larger than in the Draft Fifth Plan -- 18.4% as compared with 11.6%. Hence,
while the priority of investment in power has clearly gone up in the wake
of the energy crisis, even this has not prevented some decline of real
investment levels.
4.18      It is against this background that the provision of some additional
financing for the schemes included under Credit 377-IN is justified. The
Government has agreed to provide over one-third of the increased cost of
equipment being financed under Credit 377-IN on the basis of ICB. The
additional US$30 million that IDA would provide is very small in relation
to the total power investment program of the States concerned from 1972/73-
1976/77, the period covered by Credit 377-IN. Nevertheless, the amount
involved is quite significant in view of the fact that both the Central
Government and the State Government have already made a maximum effort to
meet the increased cost of the power program in these States. Also important
is the fact that additional IDA financing will facilitate continued adherence
to 1CB procedures with all that implies for efficient project execution.
V. JUSTIFICATION OF PART A OF THE PROJECT
5.01      There has been a remarkable improvement in the power situation
during the last twelve months due, in no small way, to the efforts of a
dynamic Minister of Energy. Delivery schedules for new plant from Indian
factories are likely to be met, construction planning and implementation
techniques have been improved, performance of existing thermal generating
plant is now monitored on a daily basis and utilization of capacity has
improved, steps have been taken to reduce maintenan:e periods and to improve
the training and increase the incentives of power station engineers and a
crash program has been launched to reduce the present high level of transmis-
sion and distribution losses.
5.02      The outlook for the achievement of Fifth Plan targets has there-
fore brightened considerably, although capacity and energy shortages are
likely to persist for several years, but reducing with time.



- 22 -
5.03      For the four beneficiary States of the new transmission component,
demand and energy requirements for the period 1974/75 through 1980/81, are
estimated by the CEA 1/ as follows:
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
DEMAND (MW)
Maharashtra       2,112    2,381    2,680    2,950    3,350    3,660    3,975
Gujarat           1,002    1,150    1,308    1,513    1,690    1,840    2,005
Bihar               930    1,070    1,192    1,342    1,466    1,630    1,810
West Bengal       1,151    1,284    1,430    1,553    1,692    1,835    1,990
ENERGY (Millions kWh)
Maharashtra      12,224   13,681   15,210   16,866   19,088   20,900   22,8004
Gujarat           5,622    6,404    7,222    8,297    9,239   10,080   10,980
Bihar             5,223    6,071    6,768    7,588    8.270    9,230   10,300
West Bengal       6,673    7,475    8,230    9,057    9,877   10,700   11,600
Growth rates through the period for Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West
Bengal of 11%, 13%, 12% and 9.5%, respectively, are indicated. Growth ratLs
for the four States for the period 1963/64 through 1980/81 are shown in the
table below:
Growth in Demand (MW) 1963/74-1980/81
(Actuals through 1974/75)
1963/64   %       1969/70    Z        1974/75   %      1980/81
Maharashtra       867   ( 9.0)   1,434    ( 8.0)   -2,112  (11.0)   3,975
Gujarat           327   (14.0)      711    ( 7.3)    1,002  (13.0)   2,005
Bihar             197   (16.0)      470    (14.5)        930  (12.0)   1,810
West Bengal       492   (12.0)       965    ( 3.6)    1,151  ( 9.5)   1,990
5.04      Estimates of load growth covering a period of 15 years are pre-
pared by the technical staff of the SEBs and are closely scrutinized by
planning staff of the CEA. The estimates are updated annually. The "end-
use method" is normally used as the basis for forecasting, in which historic
loads and sales are extrapolated to determine "normal growth"; loads from
new industries are added if they are likely to have a significant impact
on the projections. The forecasts are further checked by the "trend" method
and by the use of the "Scheer" formula. These methods are acceptable. The
load forecasts are used as the basis for planning, and even though the fore-
casting of potential load may be accurate, forecasts will be met only to the
extent that planning targets for new generating plant capacity, transmission
and distribution facilities are achieved.
5.05      The table above indicates that the projected load growth for the
four States is, with the exception of Maharashtra, lower than growth achieved
1/   Report of the Ninth Annual Electric Power Survey Committee, January 1975.



- 23 -
between 1963/64 and 1969/70. For the period 1970/71 to 1974/75, this is
mainly due to lack of generating capacity and transmission line facilities
for the reasons explained in paragraphs 2.14 and 2.15 (and, in more detail,
in Annex 2). Political unrest during the period further exacerbated the
problem in West Bengal.
5.06      The configuration of the transmission network has been evolved on
the basis of load flow studies carried out by the CEA which have indicated
the need to strengthen intrastate and interstate transmission to permit
optimum use of existing generating plant in a regional context. Regional
Boards are beginning to function (helped by the power shortage situation).
Good progress has been made, particularly in the Southern Region where it
has been possible for member SEBs to obtain relief in emergencies and,
more importantly, to take advantage of peak diversity between States.
This freed, or in a sense made available, additional generating capacity
of between 124 MW and 337 IMN during 1973/74. Further, by a properly planned
operation of hydro facilities of differing characteristics in the member
States it has been possible to "bank" off-peak thermal energy and hydro
energy which otherwise would have spilled. The load flow studies have
also shown the need to develop an extensive network of 400 KV transmission
lines during the eighties to serve the requirements of the generation develop-
ment program which includes the commissioning of a series of "super" thermal
generating plants (1,000-2,000 MW each).  The individual transmission and
substation projects which the proposed credit will help to finance form
part of the general transmission development program.
5.07      Part A of the project would make a significant contribution to the
growth of the networks of the beneficiary SEBs and to the better utilization
of generating capacity by financing substantial amounts of communication and
load dispatch equipment for State and Regional load control centers. More
than 18% of the proposed Credit will be used for this purpose.
5.08      Given the nature of the project, there is no reasonable basis for
allocating the benefits of India's very large sector development program
among its various components, and thus no reasonable basis for estimating
tne return on the transmission sub-projects in this program. But, as has
been pointed out earlier, given India's growing power requirements and the
existing distribution of generating plant completed and under construction,
the transmission program, of which the project forms a part, is required to
economically satisfy these growing demand. The only alternatives - which
would be to plan not to meet demand or to revert to past uneconomic planning
of generating capacity expansion - are not reasonable.
VI. FINANCIAL SITUATION
General Background
6.01      SEBs' finances have been unsatisfactory ever since they were
established after the enactment of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.



- 24 -
In 1964 a GOI Committee which examined the financial workings of SEBs
made various proposals for improving their financial condition. One
proposal was that they should become financially self-sufficient by
increasing tariffs gradually to achieve a 9-1/2% rate of return. The
Bank identified itself with the policy even though it realized that the
rate base, as calculated on historic costs, was seriously undervalued
and has since been further depressed by subsequent inflation. Under-
takings in connection with Loan 416-IN (1965) requiring achievement of
9-1/2% return targets by specified dates were obtained. Since then SEBs
have increased their earnings, some more than others, but progress in
achieving the target returns has generally been unsatisfactory.
Past and Present Earnings
6.02      In some States ownership of publicly held electric power assets
is divided between the State Government and the SEB, whereas in other States
all such assets are owned and operated by the SEB. For this reason the
financial undertakings in connection with Loan 416-IN provided that the
rate of return be calculated on a basis which combined the results of the
SEB with those of other State entities, e.g. Maharashtra SEB results were
combined with those of Koyna Hydroelectric Project owned by the State Gov-
ernment, and West Bengal SEB results were combined with those of the thermal
generating department of Durgapur Projects Ltd., a State-owned business en-
terprise (para 6.08). The objective was to have a uniform application of
rate-of-returnrpolicy.
6.03      The following table shows the combined target rates of return of
the SEB and State entities which were to be achieved in connection with
Loan 416-IN:
FY71 FY72 FY73 FY74 FY75
Maharashtra                           8.0   8.0   9.0   9.5   9.5
Gujarat                               8.0   8.0   9.0   9.5   9.5
Bihar (SEB only)                      7.5   7.5   8.5   8.5   9.5
West Bengal                           7.5   7.5   8.5   8.5   9.5
The table below shows actual results:
FY71  FY72  FY73  FY74
Maharashtra                           9.1  6.7   5.5   8.0
Gujarat (SEB only)                    6.7  6.9   7.6   5.3
Bihar (SEB only)                      2.1  2.0   0.0  (0.6)
West Bengal                           7.9  4.6   5.2  5.0
6.04      Failure to achieve the combined rate of return targets is attri-
butable mainly to:



- 25 -
(a)  SEBs' implementation of Federal and State policies of
rural electrification, which involve heavy losses
from massive low-yielding investments;
(b)  unwillingness of the States to raise tariffs either
adequately or timely to meet inflationary increases
in costs;
(c)  high line losses (including station use); these range
from 37% in Bihar and 25% in Gujarat, to 17% in
Maharashtra and 14% in West Bengal;
(d)  the Bihar SEB fuel clause which recovers only a little
more than half of the increase in fuel costs;
(e)  poor monsoon rains which depleted Maharashtra SEB's
hydro reserves and necessitated higher cost thermal
generation; and
(f)  delays in completion of projects.
Future Earnings
6.05      Forecast Income Statements covering FY1975 through FY1979
(Annexes 8.1, 9.1, 10.1 and 11.1) in respect of the SEBs of Maharashtra,
Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal incorporate the recent and proposed
implementation of tariff increases, together with the State subsidies to
cover losses from rural electrification operations (para 6.11) and revision
of the Bihar SEB fuel clause to fully recover fuel cost increases (para
6.12).
6.06      The Government agreed to obtain no later than March 31, 1976
from each beneficiary SEB, an undertaking, satisfactory to the Association,
and endorsed by its State Government, that the Boards will achieve specific
rate of return targets by the extended dates approved by the Association,
as follows:
Rates of Return to be Achieved
SEB                  FY77         FY78          FY79
Maharashtra                9.5           9.5          9.5
Gujarat                    9.5           9.5          9*5
Bihar                      7.0           9.5          9.5
West Bengal                5.0           8.5          9.5
6.07      An objective of the proposed credit, as in past loan/credits, would
be to improve the financial viability of SEBs as defined in para 3.06(a).



- 26 -
The 9-1/2% rate of return targets would be continued even though they would
apply against historic cost rate bases until revalued. The changes to the
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Annex 5) would enable current asset valua-
tion to be undertaken but this will take time to accomplish.
6.08      Combining West Bengal SEB and Durgapur Projects Ltd. for the rate
of return calculation (para 6.02) has not proven useful. The arrangement
should be dropped and West Bengal SEB's financial targets set separately.
Durgapur's separate rate of return deteriorated from a negative 2.9% in
FY1973 to a negative 4.4% in FY1974, largely because of increased fuel
prices and salary awards without tariff adjustments. Its earnings pro-
gressively worsened in FY1975. The combined target in FY1974 was 8-1/2%,
but only 5% was achieved. It is a combination of West Bengal SEB's return
of 7.3% and a negative return of 4.4% for Durgapur Projects Ltd. GOI
indicated that it expected to have available by June 1976 a study of
reasonable tariffs to be charged. The study would be based on assumptions
that Durgapur's generating capacity, reduced since 1974 when equipment
was damaged by fire, was restored to normal levels.
State Subsidy for RE Operations
6.09      GOI's rural electrification policy is aimed at exploiting ground-
water resources for irrigation to improve food production. When the policy
was formulated SEBs were ideally placed to undertake the technical work, and
the responsibility for developing rural electrification at an accelerated
rate has gradually been thrust upon them. Capital was made available to
them by their State Governments although financial losses from operations
were inevitable in view of the low tariffs, the low load factor of agri-
cultural pumping loads, the low load density of the system, and the large
seasonal fluctuation in demand.
6.10      It is evident that the massive investments to date are justified
on economic and social grounds, but financially the schemes will not break
even with present tariff policies for a number of years. The recent appraisal
report of the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 572-IN) indicated an eco-
nomic return of 23% on a typical REC financed scheme. A rough calculation of
the financial rate of return of a similar scheme used in the recent Bank study
of Electricity Tariffs in Andhra Pradesh shows a financial rate of return of
11.7% on capital, assuming marginal cost based tariffs at 48 paise/kWh for
agriculture and 17.7 paise/kWh for bulk supply. These are about double the
tariffs existing at the time of the study (since increased), but even if
they were in force, there would still be need for subsidy in the early years.
At present the better RE schemes break even after seven years. With similar
schemes started in successive years the break even point for the overall
operation slips about five years. With a mix of schemes (including those
normally forecast to break even by the 10th and 15th years) the slippage be-
comes much greater. Although increased tariffs would reduce the size
of the RE Operating deficits, they would not resolve SEBs problems of
financing RE losses during the early years of RE development. Since the



- 27 -
losses from RE operation cannot reasonably be met by SEBs, State Govern-
ments should accept responsibility for the subsidy.
6.11      Six State Governments have already agreed to subsidize the losses
from their SEB rural electrification operations in connection with Credit
377-IN. During negotiations, GOI agreed to obtain undertakings, satisfactory
to the Association, by March 31, 1976 from each of the States of Maharcshtra,
Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal that they would subsidize losses from their
Board's rural electrification operations effective from April 1, 1976. The
subsidy would consist of an annual sum to cover the difference between the
operating revenue and expenses (including depreciation) plus interest on loans,
quantified on the basis of a pro forma method of apportioning the SEBs'
financial results, established in connection with Credit 242-IN, or any
smaller subsidy which would allow the SEB to meet its 9-1/2% rate of return
obligation.
Bihar SEB's Fuel Clause
6.12      Bihar SEB's fuel surcharge is calculated by dividing the increase
in fuel cost, including any increase in the fuel surcharge on energy pur-
chased, by the sum of the energy sent out from its thermal stations and pur-
chased from neighboring States. The surcharge in respect of low voltage
energy supplied to consumers and in respect of distribution losses is not
recovered. GOI agreed to obtain by March 31, 1976 an undertaking from Bihar
SEB to amend the Boards fuel clause to provide for adjustment to existing
surcharges to include the fuel cost increases relating to system losses and
to implement the revised surcharges on all consumers not later than April 1, 1976.
Consumer/Employee Ratios in Bihar and West Bengal
6.13      West Bengal has a low consumer/employee ratio of about 8 to 1, and
in Bihar SEB it is about 13 to 1. Unemployment is a substantial social prob-
lem in both of these States and, at their State Governments' instigation, both
SEBs have hired many more people than they need. This would increase the
cost of electricity if costs were recovered. Since they are not, the extra
costs contribute to the poor financial performance of both SEBs. During
negotiations, the GOI representatives shared the concern of the Association
that employment by SEBs generally should be maintained at reasonable levels
and particularly in the Bihar and West Bengal SEBs. They explained that a
committee had recently been set up to establish working norms for the power
sector in connection with the negotiation of institution lending by the Life
Insurance Corporation. This committee would prepare standards for wages as
a proportion of operating costs among the norms it established for various
SEBs. A report expected by September 1976, would be submitted to the
Association for information. The problem would be followed up by the
Association during supervision of the Project.



- 28 -
Interest Arrears on State Government Loans
6.14      Credit 377-IN drew attention to the need for SEBs to be relieved
of interest arrears on State Government loans which have arisen for reasons
explained in paragraph 3.04(d).
6.15      The following table shows the estimated unpaid interest on State
Government loans which the beneficiary SEBs of the proposed Credit have accu-
mulated to March 31, 1976. They are referred to as contingent liabilities since
payment would normally be contingent upon future earnings. Since revenues
were insufficient to permit payment the liabilities have not been recorded
as liabilities in the accounts.
Contingent Liabilities
Rs Million                $ Million
Maharastra SEB                     182.6                     22.8
Gujarat SEB                        183.8                     23.0
Bihar SEB                          903.7                    113.0
West Bengal SEB                    173.6                     21.7
6.16      GOI has agreed to obtain from each State Government by March 31,
1976 an undertaking to dispose of the SEBs contingent liabilities as of
March 31, 1976.
Future Financial Position
6.17      Condensed Balance Sheets of the four beneficiary SEBs as at the
end of FY1972-1974 (Actual) and FY1975-1979 (Forecast) are given in Annexes
8.2, 9.2, 10.4 and 11.2. These all indicate debt/equity ratios averaging
about 93/7. The figures however, distort the real position because:
(a)  reserves and surplus do not take account of accumulated
contingent liabilities for unpaid interest on State
Government loans;
(b)  long-term debt in Bihar SEB, Gujarat SEB and West Bengal
SEB is understated to the extent that interest on State
Government loans has been capitalized by debiting work
in progress without an offsetting increase in the debt
account; and
(c)  Bihar SEB's accumulated depreciation is understated since
revenue was insufficient to cover full depreciation in FY1973,
1974 and 1975. This has been adjusted in subsequent fore-
casts (Annex 10.1).



- 29 -
6.18       The amendments to the Act would permit tariff levels adequate
to meet full annual debt service. The following table illustrates further
steps which would need to be taken to make SEBs financially viable. It is
based on FY1977 forecasts prepared by Bihar SEB - a Board currently having
acute financial difficulties as reflected by its negative rate of return
of 0.6% in FY1974.
(1)       (2)        (3)
Before
Revision
of the   After Revision
Based on Bihar SEB FY77 Forecast           Act       of the Act
(In Millions of Rupee)
Internal Cash Generation                  402.1     402.1      402.1
Deductions:
Debt Service:
Interest                            255.1      255.1      207.9 /c
Amortization                          33.9 /a   97.5 /b   58.1 /b /c
Redemption Fund - Contributions         -       42.3 lb   42.3 lb
Total - Debt Service                 289.0     394.9      308.3
Working Capital - Increase            19.0      19.0       19.0
Total - Deductions                   308.0     413.9      327.3
Net Internal Cash Generation               94.1      (11.8)     74.8
Borrowing Requirements                    635.6     741.5      654.9
Consumer's Contributions                   22.0      22.0       22.0
Capital Investment                        751.7     751.7      751.7
Ia   No provision made for repayment of loans advanced by State Govern-
ment under Section 64 of the Act.
/b   Provision assumes annual repayment of State Government loans and
annual contributions to a Bond Redemption Fund to repay bonds on
maturity.
/c Assumes Rs 985.7 million ($123.2 million) State Government loans
converted to equity, with consequent reductions in interest
(Rs 47.2 million) and amortization (Rs 39.4 million). No
provision made for dividends at the present time.
The table focuses on the SEB's financial viability measured by the extent
it can generate funds internally for investment after meeting operating
expenses, debt service and reasonable increases in working capital. The
GOI Energy Survey Committee in 1964 recommended that between 35% to 40%
of the capital investment should be generated internally by SEBs in India.
The recommendation was not adopted. If applied to the above table the net
internal cash generation in Columns 2 and 3 would need to be Rs 263 million
after taxes.



- 30 -
6.19      Column 1 shows a net internal cash generation of Rs 94.1 million
which would finance 13% of the capital investment. The amount conveys a
wrong impression of the strength of the SEBs earnings since provision is
neither made for the repayment of State Government loans nor for the amorti-
zation of bonds prior to maturity. Column 2 modifies Column 1 forecasts by
including a more realistic assessment of the provision for debt repayment.
These provisions change the net internal cash generation into a deficit
which is a poor result for an SEB with a forecast return of nearly 9%, and
also increases the borrowing requirements. The poor result indicates that
the rate base, which does not reflect current values, overstates the rate of
return and that tariffs need to be boosted still further. This observation
is equally applicable to the rates of return which all SEBs have undertaken
to achieve in connection with Loan 416-IN and subsequent credit agreements.
6.20      The high debt/equity ratios averaging 93/7 are attributable largely
to the Electricity (Supply) Act which neither requires nor encourages repay-
ment of State Government loans, to tariffs which are unrelated to cost, and
to the SEB's dependence on debt to finance construction. The ratios over-
state the proportion of equity to capitalization in view of the practice of
not recording in the accounts of the SEB the liability for interest on State
Government loans which was not paid due to inadequate revenue surplus (para
3.04(d).
6.21      As additional responsibility is placed on SEBs for repaying debt
and for improving their financial viability, they can be expected to give
more consideration to the economic and financial justification for future
investment, and to the cost of servicing debt. But SEBs can do very little
towards reducing their existing debt or their debt service liability. State
Governments could assist by agreeing to convert into equity a portion of the
loans they have already advanced to their SEBs. The low priority given to
the repayment of State Government loans by the Act, and the historically
low earnings by SEBs support this.
6.22      Column 3 of the table in para 6.18 assumes conversion of Rs 985.7
million of State Government loans into equity with a consequent reduction
of Rs 86.6 million in debt service. This change in the capital structure
would produce a revised debt/equity ratio of 72/28 in EY1977 (Annex 10.4)
and internally generated funds equal to nearly 10% of the capital invest-
ment. The 10% is low compared to the 35% to 40% recommended by the GOI
Energy Survey Committee in 1964. The modified forecasts in Bihar SEB's
source of funds statement for FY1977 through FY1979 (Annex 10.3) assumes
conversion of part of the debt to equity, the consequent reduction in debt
service, no provision for dividends, and the capitalization of interest
during construction which increases the investment. This would produce
before tax internally generated funds equal to 15%, 24% or 27% of the capital
investment in each of those years respectively. With an unchanged capital
structure a rate of return of 11.7% would be needed to produce a similar
result.
6.23      The modification of the Electricity (Supply) Act will require an
SEB to examine from time to time the extent to which its internally generated
funds, net of realistically assessed debt service, may be available to meet



- 31 -
reasonable increases in working capital and to finance investment. For this
reason GOI will undertake to prepare in conjunction with State Government
and SEB officials, financial forecasts of the working results of each SEB in
India detailed in a manner to be indicated by the Association. The purpose
of this exercise would be to produce financial statements which would give
each SEB a basis for planning the steps which should be taken towards be-
coming financially viable. It would involve calculating annual interest
accruals, making realistic assessments of the annual provision for amorti-
zation of all debt, planning for increased revenues by means of tariff
increases and State Government subsidy to cover rural electrification, and
assuming Government approval to the conversion into an equity investment
of part of the capital advanced to the SEB as loan. It is intended that
the CEA would assume responsibility for coordinating the exercise, and the
submission of copies of the forecasts relating to each SEB to the Association
upon their completion, which should be not later than March 31, 1977, or
other agreed date.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances have been obtained from the Borrower that:
(a) the CEA would employ consultants acceptable to the
Association under terms of reference and contractual
provisions agreed with the Association, where the CEA
considered such consultants necessary, to assist it in
carrying out comprehensive planning studies (para 2.26);
(b) by March 31, 1977 the CEA will prepare guidelines,
satisfactory to the Association, for the capitaliza-
tion of interest during construction (para 3.10);
(c) all procurement will be on the basis of international
competitive bidding and that, when after application of
a domestic preference of 15%, the lowest evaluated bidder
is a foreign manufacturer, permission to import will be
issued promptly and no further reviews by agencies of the
Central Government will be made (para 4.05);
(d) withdrawals will be made from the Credit Account only in
respect of equipment and materials for which an invitation
to bid has been issued within 12 months, and orders placed
within 18 months of the signing of the Credit Agreement
(para 4.06);
(e) it will prepare, in conjunction with each SEB in India
and its State Government and DESU annual financial forecasts
of its working results through FY 1979 as detailed by the
Association, and submit copies of these forecasts to the
Association by March 31, 1977 (para 6.23);



- 32 -
(f) it will obtain by March 31, 1976, undertakings satisfactory
to the Association, from:
(1) the Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal SEBs
to carry out, in consultation with the CEA, a pricing
study relating to electricity supplied by the SEB based
on the marginal cost principles established in the
"Study of Electricity Tariffs in Andhra Pradesh" and
to prepare by March 31, 1977, a report of its findings
including an analysis of the implications of such
findings on its finances (para 3.09);
(2) the Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal SEBs,
detailing the manner in which the respective parts of
the project will be executed (para 4.14);
(3) the Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal SEBs,
that the SEB will achieve specific rates of return
(para 6.06);
(4) each of the State Governments of Maharashtra, Gujarat,
Bihar and West Bengal
(i)  to subsidize losses of the SEB from rural
electrification operations effective from
April 1, 1976 (para 6.11); and
(ii)  to dispose of the SEB's contingent liabilities
as of March 31, 1976 (para 6.16).
(5) the Bihar State Government and the Bihar SEB, to amend
the SEB's fuel clause by adjusting existing surcharges
to recover the full increase in fuel costs and to
implement the revised surcharge on all consumers not
later than April 1, 1976 (para 6.12).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions the Borrower has agreed
that the Credit Agreement shall not come into force and effect until a
chairman of the CEA has been appointed (para 2.08).
7.03      With the above assurances on the foregoing, the Project is suitable
for a Credit of US$150 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
(DEPAR?MENT OF POIER)
New Delhi, August 12, 1975
ORDER
The Central Electricity Authority was constituted under Section 3(1)
of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, under the erstwhile Ministry of Works,
Mines and Power Notification No. EI-II-1(9) dated the 20th January, 1950, as
amended from time to tLne.  The President has now been plea-ed to decide that,
subject to the amendment of the Act, the Central Electricity Authority shall,
with immediate effect, consist of a Chairman and six full-time Members. The
function of the Chairman and Members will be as under:
CHAIRMAN:    i)  overall coordination and control over the working of the CEA;
ii)  administration;
iii)  research & development, and
iv) all matters relating to the legal aspects of the Electricity
Supply Act, and the Indian Electricity Act and Rales.
MEMER (PLANIIING):
i)  survey of resources for the preparation of National Plan
for Power Development;
ii)  conduct of demand surveys on short-term as w^Tell as long-
term basis;
iii)  formulation of Perspective, Rolling and Annual Plans
for power generation;
iv)  evolving criteria for formulationo of a National Power
Plan designed to optimise the utilisation of resources,
and to generate powier in the most efficient manner for
the country as a whole; and
v)  to introduce the Systems approach in the formulation of
the Power Policy for the country, as well as in the States.
MEMBER (THERMAL):
i)  designing of thermal projects and evolving means of
economising in use of scarce materials;
ii)  approval of feasibility reports;
iii)  standardisation of layout of thermal stations;
iv)  standardisation of auxiliaries, etc.;
v)  sanctioning preparation of detailed project reports for
thermal stations;
vi)  association with the investigation of thermal projects,
.iherever necessary;
vii)  processing for accord o'f technic- -pproval by the CLh
in respect of thermal projects;
viii) technical advice in the processing of thermal schemes for
inclusion in the Plan;



AME 1
Page 2 of 4
ix) assessment of financial requirements for achieving set
physical targets in respect of thermal schemes;
x) monitoring of thermal projects under construction in the
country;
xi) assessment of requirements of scarce materials for
construction of thermal projects;
xii) coordination with electrical manufacturing industry in
respect of requirements for construction of thermal
projects; and
xiii) improvement and modernisation of construction and erection
techniques, and reduction in time taken for commissioning
of projects.
MMER (HYDRO-ELECTRIC):
Functions similar to Member (Thermal) in respect of hydro-
electric projects. He would additionally have to coordinate
the civil side of the projects with the Central Water Comission0
It is also proposed that Member (HE) should look after the
development and coordination of the new sources of energy,
like geo-thermal, solar, tidal, wind, etc.
MEMBER (OPERATIONS)s
i) to monitor the working of power stations in the country
with a view to maximise generation;
ii) all work connected with the training of personnel, as
well as implementation of the new proposed schemes
for the licensing of operational staff for the thermal
stations;
iii) implementation of the scheme for quality control of coal,
and coordination arrangements required for the supply
of coal to the thermal stations;
iv) coordinating arrangements necessary for improving spare
part management and supply;
v) introducing adequate systems for ensuring improved
standards of maintenance in power stations;
vi) reduction of use of oil as primary and secondary fuel;
vii) planning and implementation of measures to enable thermal
stations to work to maximum capacity; and
viii) introduction of modern methods of inventory control in
Electricity Boards, and in the Central Generating Companies.
MEMBER (SYSTEMS):
i)  In respect of the transmission and distribution programmes,
he would have the same functions as Member (Thermal) and
Member (HE) would have in this respect of thermal and
hydro projects;
ii) to evolve the criteria and guidelines for bringing about
integrated operation of State and regional systems, and
for the inter-regional transfer of power. For this purpose,
he would be in charge of the Regional Electricity Boards
and Regional Load Despatch Centers;



ANN 1
Page 3 of: 4
iii) the planning of the major transmission net work required
in the country consistent with the National Power Policy,
and the need for integrated working of an all India Grid;
iv)  Rural electrification;
v) reduction of System losses;
vi)  planning and implementation of measures to flatten
load curves in the different Systems tus facilitating
the optimm use of the available power and the operation
of thermal stations at their maximm capacity.
EMNBER (SCONoMIC & CCHMEWIAL):
i)  economic evaluation of all projects - thermal, bydro,
transmission and distribution;
ii)  economic analysis required for formulation of the
National Power Policy;
iii) establishment and operation of the monitoring and
evaluation Directorate. This Section would provide the
necessary data to Members (Thermal)/(Fydro) and (Operations).
The communication system, the data processing system, etc.
would be under the charge of this Member;
iv)  collection, compilation and publication of statistical data
relating to the Power Sector;
v) guidelines for rational utilisation of available power,
so as to optimise economic growth;
vi)  scrutiny and sanction of all financial outlays of the
C.E.A. within the sanctioned budgetary limits;
vii) to advise on all matters having financial implications
before the C.E.A*;
viii) advice regarding determination of bulk tariff rates, and
other terms and conditions for inter-State and inter-
regional sale of power; and
ix)  advising the State Electricity Boards/Generating Companies
in regard to all comercial ratters for improving their
financial and operational results.



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION IV PROJECT
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
CHAIRMAN
M (Planning)                  M (Thermal)                   M (Hydro)                  N (Operations)                 N (Systems)                 N (Economic & Coimeercial)
Chief                          Chief                         Chiefief
Plan                           DesigDesign                                              Monitoring         Design                                          Central Data
Formulation                    Division                     Division                    & Inputs                       Division                           Processing &
Division                                                                                Division                                                          Monitorin
Chief                          Chief                        ChiefChief                                                 Chief                               Chief
Resources                      Monitoring                   Monitoring                  Training &                     Monitoring                          Project
& Demand                       & Inputs                     & Inputs                    Manpower                       & Inputs                            Evaluation
Division                       Division                     Division
Chief                       Chief                       Chief                          Chief                               Chief
_  Technical                     Technical                  Industrial                     Technical                           Internal
Evaluation                  Eyaluation                  Engineering                    Evaluation                          Finance
Division                    Division                    Division                       Division                            Division
|Chief      l
ACoffmercial|
Division
0
4-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
The Present Power Shortage and the Immediate Prospects -
1.        During the last three years of the Fourth Plan period, ending in
March 1974, the situation with respect to power supply became generally dif-
ficult and locally and intermittently critical. Particularly from the end
of 1972 onwards, there has been serious dislocation of production in a num-
ber of areas.
2.        Several factors have contributed to the emergence of power supply
as a critical problem. A basic underlying cause has been the slow growth
of installed generating capacity during the Fourth Plan period. As against
a target increase of 65 percent from March 1969 to March 1974, the realized
figure was only 29 percent. Hence, while effective demand for electric
power was continuing to rise, probably at a rate of over ten percent per
annum, the average annual increase in generating capacity was particularly
disappointing in the case of hydro power, where only about one-third of the
target increase during the Fourth Plan period was attained.
3.        This slow growth in generating capacity resulted from widespread
and prolonged delays in the execution of power projects. An official task
force on power generation, which reported in early 1973, carried out a de-
tailed case-by-case analysis of the principal reasons for slippage. The
most important of these was delays in civil works, which were believed to
account for almost two-thirds of the estimated capacity additions which
would spill over from the Fourth Plan to the Fifth Plan period. Apart
from civil works, the main cause of slippage was delays in the delivery
of power equipment, which accounted for almost 20 percent of total capac-
ity held over.
4.        A second factor contributing to deficiencies in power supply has
been the lateness or inadequacy of additions to transmission and distribu-
tion facilities. Cases have occurred in which power output from new plants
was restricted because these complementary facilities had not been completed.
The relative weakness of high voltage inter-State connections has meant that
generating capacity has not been deployed and utilized as effectively as it
could have been.
1/   In part from:  P.D. Henderson:  "India, The Energy Sector", 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        For thermal stations, a chronic problem has been equipment either
underused or out of commission for periods much longer than would normally
be required for routine maintenance. In some cases, fuel supplies to the
power stations have been a problem, notably in the lignite-based station
at Neyveli in Tamil Nadu and at coal-burning stations in the south and
west which are remote from coalfields. Interruptions of supply have
caused equipment to be underutilized even though it was in good working
order. Where coal supplies have been available, problems have also arisen
because the quality of the coal has been variable or bad. Lack of quality
control, both at the mines and at the power stations, has resulted in oper-
ating difficulties and damage to equipment; while in some stations, notably
those in Bihar and West Bengal which use the by-products from coal washeries,
the high content of ash and abrasive material has caused serious damage to
preparation equipment and to boilers.
6.        Apart from fuel, the availability of capacity in thermal stations
has also been reduced because of the long periods for which equipment has
been out of service for overhaul or repairs. This has been partly due to
shortage of spares especially for imported equipment where import licences
may be needed and where in some cases the particular designs are no longer
in production. Another factor making for long outage periods is that be-
cause of the very difficult supply position, equipment has often been kept
working to meet the load well past the time of normal overhaul and prevent-
ive maintenance, with a consequently greater risk of serious breakdown.
This has been a frequent practice in the Eastern region. Finally, operat-
ing problems have also arisen in power stations, particularly but not only
in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, because of labor and staff unrest.
7.        As a result of this conjunction of operating problems and a slow
growth of capacity, the power situation was becoming increasingly difficult
and precarious, while from the middle of 1972 it deteriorated because of
the effect on hydro generation of unusually low rainfall. Together with
a low snow melt from the Himalayan range, the summer of 1972 brought the
rare phenomenon of very poor monsoon rains over much the greater part of
the country, so that almost without exception the hydro storage reservoirs
were unfilled. The consequence was that for the period from January to
September 1973 the amount of hydro-electric power available was nearly 14
percent below the level of the corresponding period of the previous year.
8.        The resulting shortages of supply were naturally most acute in
the regions most dependent on hydro power, in the north and northwest and
in the south. The situation was made worse in the north by the fact that
a number of new power stations had been badly delayed, and in the south in
Tamil Nadu by continuing problems with the large thermal stations at Neyveli
and Ennore. In the Western region, the difficulties arising from the fall
in hydro generation were increased by the fact that power supplies from the
Tarapur nuclear station were still well below the level initially achieved.
Even in the Eastern region, which is much the least dependent on hydro power,
there were shortages arising mainly from the conjunction of rising demand
and low utilization of thermal stations. Hence, total gross generation of



ANNEX 2
Page 3
electricity in 1972/73 was only some 6 percent above the level reached in
the previous year. The increase was made possible because for the country
as a whole the output of the conventional thermal stations owned by utili-
ties rose appreciably, by some 14 percent.
9.        The increase in power output between 1972/73 and 1973/74 was
appreciably less than this, being of the order of 2 percent. The level
of hydro generation improved somewhat, following a generally favorable
1973 monsoon, and there was an increase in power supply from the nuclear
stations. Taken together, the increase in generation from hydro and nu-
clear sources may have been close to 10 percent. The output from thermal
stations belonging to utilities, however, was no greater than in 1972/73.
So far as existing stations are concerned, this can be attributed to the
persistence of the operating problems which have been described above.
It was also the case, however, that additions to capacity in 1973/74 were
extremely small. Because of this disappointing performance in relation to
conventional thermal stations, the power situation in 1973/74 deteriorated,
as compared with the previous year, for India as a whole. Preliminary fig-
ures for 1974/75 show little improvement. Although installed capacity was
greater by 9.2 percent than for the previous year, units generated increased
by only 3.5 percent because these newly-commissioned generating units inevi-
tably take time to reach their full output - particularly those commissioned
towards the end of the year.
10.       In handling shortages of power, the policy of the Government of
India and the States has been to try to meet agricultural loads as fully
as possible, though restrictions have been imposed on the times at which
agricultural pumpsets could be operated. The main burden of dislocation
has fallen and continues to fall on industrial production. It is not
possible to estimate at all precisely the loss of industrial output
attributable to restricted or interrupted power supplies, but it is
clear that certain particular industries, as well as the majority of
industries in the worst affected areas, have suffered considerably.
11.       For the immediate future much of the burden of increasing energy
supplies will fall on existing thermal stations - as indeed it should. But
this would require an improvement in their past average performance.
12.       For some time now, the problems of these thermal stations have
been the subject of regular and detailed review by the Center and the SEB's.
The performance of each station is monitored, and a number of measures have
been introduced with a view to securing improvements. In the case of slow-
moving spares, a central inventory has been established under the control
of the main domestic manufacturer of heavy electrical equipment. Steps have
been taken to try to reduce long maintenance periods, to improve distribution
links, and to improve the training and increase the incentives of power sta-
tion engineers. An intensive program has been launched to reduce the present
high level of transmission and distribution losses. It appears that an in-
crease in power supply has recently been achieved in the power systems of
the Damodar Valley Corporation and the West Bengal SEB, so that for the
Eastern region at any rate the outlook is somewhat better.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       As part of the program to raise the output and utilization rates
of thermal stations, a general target has been set for each station, except
for those whose utilization rates are already high, of a 25 percent in-
crease in power generation. This figure may be optimistic, but it would
appear that for India as a whole an appreciable increase in output could
be obtained from conventional thermal stations with rates of utilization
not much higher than those that have been realized in the past. For
1973/74, on an all-India basis, the annual plant factor for thermal sta-
tions was 46.5 percent, less than the 49.9 percent achieved in 1972/73
which has the highest figure achieved in recent years. Although these
may appear to be low figures for the utilization of capacity, they must
be judged according to what it is reasonable to expect. They will depend
upon a variety of factors, including load patterns and the extent to which
thermal stations are operated in conjunction with hydro stations which can
be used to meet peak demands. It is probably fair to say that under exist-
ing conditions in India a national average of 55 percent would be satisfac-
tory, and a figure of 60 percent would be very good.
14.       As to the outlook for the future, this depends largely on the
rate at which additions can continue to be made to installed generating
capacity and the associated transmission and distribution systems; the
extent to which better utilization rates can be attained; and the qual-
ity of the monsoons. On present indications it can be expected that the
condition of general or at any rate widespread power shortage will con-
tinue to prevail for the next few years.



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Electricity SUPP1Y:  Installed Capacity
March    March      March     March      March      March     March      March
As at March 31                         1961     1966       1969      1971       1972       1973      1974       1975
1.  Utilities                                                                                               (Provisional)
(a)  BY ownership
Public                      3,287    7,288    11,335    13,222    13,769    14,812    15,254           N.A.
Private                     1,356    1,739      1,622      1,487      1,485     1,469      1,410       N.A.
(b)  BY type of stations
Hydro                       1,917    4,124      5,907      6,383      5,612     6,785      6,966    7,520
Conventional Thermal        2,436    4,417      6,640      7,508      7,818     8,468      8,652    9,817
Nuclear                       -         -         -          420        420       620        640     -640
Otherj                       - 300      486       410        398        404       428        406      419
Utilities - Total                4,653    9,027    2257           709    15,254    16,281    16,664   18,396
2. Non-utilities
Total                            1,001    1,146       1,339     1,562      1,635      1,708     1,792       N.A.
3.  Total                             5,654   19,173    14,296    16,271    16,889    17,989    189456
1/ Diesel and Gas Tarbine.
Source: P.D. Henderson: Energy Sector Report, Table 34 (updated).
H-



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Relative Shares in Net Electricity Consumton'
eroentages
1960/61      1965/66       1968/69      1970/71    1971/72       1972/73     1973Y74
Agriculture and Irrigation         4.9           6.3          8.5           9a2         9.6        12.1         12.6
Railway Traction                   2.7           3.5          3.0           2.8         3.1         3.6          3.1
Industry                          73.7          72.8         71.0          70.0        69-5        65.7         64.6
Commercial and Govern-ment         5.0           5.5          5.2           5.3         5.7         5.8          6.0
Public Lighting                    1.o)          0.9          0.9           1.0         0.9         1.1          1.0
Domestic                           8.8           7.8          7.8           7.9         7.9          8.7         9.2
Public Water Works,
Drainage and Miscellaneous         3.8           3.2          3.8           3.8         3.3          3.0         3.5
1/  Including non-;ltti. of which the output goes almost entirely to industry.
Source:  P.D. Hend: -      E fnergy Sector Report, Table 35 (updated).



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Electricity Consumption in Selected Manufacturing Industries
(GWh)
March 31              1960/61       1965/66       1968/69        1970/71       1971/72       1972/73        1973/74
1. Aluminum                  448         1,566         2,495          3,375         3,555         3,515          2,825
2. Iron and Steel          1,613         2,545         3,035          3,195         3,178         3,713         3,796
3. Cotton Textiles         2,088         2,783         3,048          3,138         3,128         3,965          4,056
4. Fertilizers               477         1,828         2,156          2,531         2,791         2,918          3,115
5. Chemicals                 404           642         1,030          1,614         1,810         1,760          1,545
6.  Cement                   936         1,059         1,148          1,371         1,448         1,318          1,284
7.  Paper                    508           666           812            899         1,096         1,112         1,059
8.  Engineering             n.a.           298           456            839           989           836            822
Total - Industries          1/
Listed Above           611,387                    14,180        163962         117                         18,502
Total - Consumption
by Industry           12 659        22 6987057                      200        3 2           37361
3/ Excluding Engineering.
Source:  P.D. Henderson: Energy Sector Report, Table 36 (updated).                                                     I



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Number of Villai s Electrified and Irrigation PLn sets/Tubewells Energized
Number of           Proportion of              Number of Irrigation
Villages            Total Villages              Pumpset8/Tubewells
March 31                 Electrified          (Percentages)              Energized (Thousands)
1950/51                      3,100                  0.5                              21
1955/56                      7,300                  1.3                              56
1960/61                    21,700                   3.8                             198
1965/66                    45,100                   8.0                             509
1968/69                     73,700                 13.0                           1,081
1970/71                    104,900                 18.7                           1,619
1971/72                    122,100                 21.6                           1,890
1972/73                    1'9,200                 24.5                           2,168
1973/74                    156,000                 27.5                           2,440
1974/7L                    165,500                 29.2                           2,633
Sourt:  P.D. Hend.:sori:  2nergy Sector Report, Table 37 (updated).



INDIA
POWER TRANSI0SSION PROJECT IV
Per Capita Electricity ConsumDtion by States
(KWh)
1960/61          1965/66           1971/72           1972/73          1974/75
Andra Pradesh                   19               31                57                54               61
Assam                           4                 8                25               26                26
Bihar                          42                57                65                66               71
Gujarat,/                       52               83               140               153              154
Haryana-                                                          1.1               130              141
Himachal Pradesh                                                   44                48               57
Jammu and Kashmir               14               30                40                40               43
Karnataka (Mysore)              44               55               115               118              121
Kerala                          29               39                74                79               85
Madhya Pradesh                  20               36                58                63               68
Maharashtra                     73              106               168               174               170
Orissa                          43               79                97                93               93
Punjab2/                        33              102               169               165              196
Rajasthan                       12               21                53                60               61
Tamil Nadu                      51               89               135               131               133
Uttar Pradesh                   15               30                60                64                58
West Bengal                     84              114               115               120              116
Delhi                          187              206               283               305               315
All India                       38               61                94                96                97
y  For 1960/61 ana 1965/66, the figure shown for Punjab covers Punjab and Haryana together.
Source: P.D. Henderson: Energy Sector Report,Table 38 (updated).



Annex 4
INDIA                       Page 1 of 6 pages
Extract from Electricity (Supply) Act 1948
THE BOARD'S FINANCE, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
59. General principles for Board's finance. The Board shall not, as far as
practicable and after taking credit for any subventions from the State Govern-
ment under section 63, carry on its operations under this Act at a loss, and
shall adjust its charges accordingly from time to time:
Provided that where necessary any amounts due for meeting the operat-
ing, maintenance and management expenses of the Board or for the purposes of
clauses (i) and (ii) of section 67 may, to such extent as may be sanctioned by
the State Government, be paid out of capital.
60.  Board to assume obligations of State Government in respect of matters to
which this Act applies.  (1)  All debts and obligations incurred, all contracts
entered into and all matters and things engaged to be done by, with or for the
State Government for any of the purposes of this Act before the first constitu-
tion of the Board shall be deemed to have been incurred, entered into or engaged
to be done by, with or for the Board; and all suits or other legal proceedings
instituted or which might but for the issue of the notification under sub-section
(4) of section 1 have been instituted by or against the State Government may be
continued or instituted by or against the Board.
(1A) All schemes sanctioned by the State Government and transferred
to the Board shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been sanctioned
by the Board.
(2) All expenditure which the State Government may, not later than
two months after the first constitution of the Board, declare to have been
incurred before the issue of the notification under sub-section (4) of section 1
on capital account in connection with the purposes of this Act shall be deemed
to be a loan advanced to the Board under section 64 on the date of the said
declaration, and all the assets acquired by such expenditure shall thereupon
vest in the Board.
60A. Period of limitation extended in certain cases. Where the right to recover
any amount due to the State Government for or in connection with the consumption
of electricity is vested in the Board and the period of limitation to enforce
such right has expired before the constitution of the Board, or within three
years of its constitution, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian
Limitation Act, 1908 (9 of 1908) or any other law for the time being in force
relating to limitation of action, the Board may institute a suit for the recovery
of such amount, -
(i) where it has been constituted before the commencement of the
Electricity (Supply) Amendment Act 1966 (30 of 1966), within
three years of such commencement; and



Annex 4
Page 2 of 6 pages
(ii) where it has been constituted after such commencement,
within three years of its constitution.
61. Annual financial statement. (1) In February of each year the Board
shall submit to the State Government a statement in the prescribed form of
the estimated capital and revenue receipts and expenditure for the ensuing
year.
(2) The said statement shall include a statement of the salaries
of members, officers and servants of the Board and of such other particulars
as may be prescribed.
(3) The State Government shall as soon as may be after the receipt
of the said statement cause it to be laid on the table of the House j/, or
as the case may be, Houses 2/ of the State Legislature and the said statement
shall be open to discussion therein, but shall not be subject to vote.
(4) The Board shall take into consideration any comments made on
the said statement in the State Legislature.
(5) The Board may at any time during the year in respect of which
a statement under sub-section (1) has been submitted, submit to the State
Government a supplementary statement, and all the provisions of this section
shall apply to such statement as they apply to the statement under the said
sub-section.
62. Restriction on unbudgeted expenditure. (1) Save where in the opinion
of the Board circumstances of extreme urgency have arisen, no sum exceeding
seventy-five thousand 3/ rupees on account of recurring expenditure or exceeding
three lakhs 4/ of rupees on account of non-recurring expenditure shall be
expended by the Board in any year of account unless such sum has been included
in a statement submitted under sub-section (1) or sub-section (5) of section 61.
(2) Where any such sum is expended under circumstances of extreme
urgency a report thereon indicating the sources from which it is proposed to
meet the expenditure shall be made as soon as practicable to the State Govern-
ment.
63. Subventions to the Board. The State Government may, with the approval
the State Legislature, from time to time make subventions to the Board for
the purposes of this Act on such terms and conditions as the State Goveruiment
may determine.
64. Loans to the Board. The State Government may, from time to time advance
loans to the Board on such terms and conditions not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as the State Government may determine.
1/ Subs. by the A.0. 1950, for "Chamber".
5/  Subs. ibid., for "Chambers".
3/  Subs. by Act 30 of 1966, s. 13, for "twenty-five thousand".
4~/ Subs. by s. 13 ibid., for "one lakhTt.



AnnexL
page 3 of 6 pages
65.  Power of Board to borrow.  (1)  The Board may, from time to time with the
previous sanction of the State Government and subject to the provisions of
this Act and to such conditions as may be precribed in this behalf, borrow
any sum required for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Rules made by the State Government for the purposes of this
section may empower the Board to borrow by the issue of bonds or stock or
otherwise and to make arrangements with bankers, and may apply to the Board
with such modifications as may be necessary to be consistent with this Act
the provisions of the Local Authorities Loans Act, 1914 (9 of 1914), and
the rules made thereunder as if the Board were a local authority.
(3) The maximum amount which the Board may at any time have on
loan under sub-section (1) shall be ten crores of rupees, unless the State
Government, with the approval of the State Legislative Assembly, fixes a
higher maximum amount.
(4) Stock issued by the Board under this section shall be issued,
transferred, dealt with and redeemed in such manner as may be prescribed.
66. Guarantee of Loans. The State Government may guarantee in such manner
as it thinks fit the payment of the principal and interest of any loan proposed
to be raised by the Board or of either the principal or the interest.
Provided that the State Government sha,ll, so long as any such
guarante s are in force, lay before the House l/ or, as the case may be,
Houses 2 of the State Legislature in every year during the budget session
a statement of the guarantees, if any, given during the current financial
year of the State and an up-to date account of the total sums, if any, which
have been paid out of State revenues by reason of any such guarantees or paid
into State revenues towards repayment of any money so paid out.
67. Priority of liabilities of the Board. The revenues of the Board shall,
after meeting its operating, maintenance and management expenses j/ and after
provision has been made for the payment of taxes on its income and profits, be
distributed as far as they are available in the following order, namely:
(i)  interest on bonds not guaranteed under section 66;
(ii) interest on stock not so guaranteed;
(iii) credits to depreciation reserve under section 68;
(iv) interest on bonds guaranteed under section 66;
(v)  interest on stock so guaranteed;
(vi)   4/     interest on sums paid by the State Government
under guarantees under section 66;
(vii)  the write-down of amounts paid from capital under the
proviso to section 59;
1/ Subs. by the A.0. 1950, for "Chamber".
2/ Subs. ibid, for "Chambers".
3/ Ins. by Act 101 of 1956, s. 17.
2T/ The words "repayment of principal and" omitted by s. 17, ibid.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6 pages
(viia) the write-down of amounts in respect of intangible assets
to the extent to which they are actually appropriated in
any year for the purpose in the books of the Board;
(viii) contribution to general reserve of an amount not exceeding
(one half of) one per centem per annum of the original cost
of fixed assets employed by the Board so however that the
total standing to the credit of such reserve shall not
exceed fifteen 1- per centem of the original cost of such
fixed assets;
(ix) interest on loans advanced or deemed to be advanced to the
Board under section 64, including arrears of such interes;
(x) the balance to be appropriated to a fund to be called the
Development Fund to be utilized for:
(a) purposes beneficial, in the opinion of the Board,
to electrical development in the State; and
(b) repayment of loans advanced to the Board under section
64 and required to be repaid.
Provided that where no such loan is outstanding, one-half of the
balance aforesaid shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of the State.
68. 3/    Depreciation reserve.  The Board shall create a depreciation reserve
and, as far as compliance with the provisions of section 67 makes it practicable,
shall, at the end of every year, credit to such reserve from its revenue an
amount calculated in accordance with the straight line method of depreciation,
that is to say, such an amount as is arrived at by dividing ninety per cent of
the original cost of the assets, after taking into account the sums already
written off and set aside in the books of the Board, by the prescribed period
in respect of such assets.
provided that the contribution in respect of any asset to the
depreciation reserve under this section shall cease at the end of the prescribed
period or when the asset ceases to be used by the Board whichever is earlier.
Provided further that if in any year it is not practicable fully to
comply with the provisions of this section, the amount by which the sums actually
credited falls short of the amount required under this section in respect of that
year, shall be carried forward and together with simple interest thereon at the
Reserve Bank rate ruling at the begining of that year, shall be credited to the
said reserve as soon as it is found possible in accordance with section 67, so
to do.
1/ Subs. by Act 30 of 1966, s. 14, for "eight".
2/ Subs. by s. 14, ibid for cl. (x).
3/ Subs. by s. 15 ibid., for former s. 68.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6 pages
Provided further that the accumulations in the depreciation
reserve may be invested in the business of the Board, or utilized for
repayment of the principal of any loan raised under section 65 or for
repayment of sums paid by the State Government under guarantees under
section 66.
Explanation - In this section, "prescribed period" -
(i) in relation to an asset which became available to the
Board for its use in its business before the commencement
of the Electricity (Supply) Amendment Act, 1966 (30 of
1966) means the prescribed period as defined in the Sixth
Schedule reduced by the number of years during which such
asset was used or capable of being used, such years being
computed from the beginning of the year next following that
in which that asset became so available to the Board and
up to the end of the year ending on or after such commence-
ment;
(ii) in relation to any other asset, means the prescribed period
as so defined in the said Schedule.
69.1/ Accounts and audit.   (1)  The Board shall cause proper accounts and
other records in relation thereto be to kept; including a proper system of
internal check and prepare an annual statement of accounts, including the
profit and loss account and the balance-sheet in such form as may be prescribed
by the State Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India.
(2) The accounts of the Board shall be audited by the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India or by such person as he may authorize in this
behalf and any expenditure incurred by him in connection with such audit shall
be payable by the Board to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India.
(3) The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any person
authorized by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the Board
shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in connection with such
audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has in connection with
the audit of Government accounts and in particular shall have the right to
demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents
and papers, and to inspect any of the offices of the Board.
(4) The accounts of the Board as certified by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India or any other person authorized by him in this behalf
together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the
State Government and that Government may issue such instructions to the Board
in respect thereof as it deems fit and the Board shall comply with such
instructions.
1/ Subs. by Act 101 of 1956, s. 18, for original s. 69.



ANNt IL
Page 6 of 6 pages
(5) The State Government shall:
(a) cause the accounts of the Board together with the audit
report thereon forwarded to it under sub-section (4)
to be laid annually before the State Legislature; and
(b) cause the accounts of the Board to be published in the
prescribed manner and make available copies thereof on
sale at a reasonable price.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Draft Proposed Amendments to Certain Sections of the Electricity (Supply) Act 19h8
Draft Proposed Amendments agreed between
Sec.                                            representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.             Existing Section                   negotiations (November 1975)
(7I7                                      (2)
S.59     "General principles for Board's
Finance:
The Board shall not, as far           The Board after taking credit for
as practicable and after taking       any subventions from the State Government
credit for any subventions from       under Section 63, shall carry on its
the State Government under            operations under this Act, and adjust its
Section 63, carry on its operations tariffs so as to ensure that the total
under this Act at a loss, and         revenue will meet all expenses properly
shall adjust its charges accord-    chargeable to revenue including operation,
ingly from time to time.              maintenance and management expenses,
depreciation, interest payable on all loans,
stocks and bonds and leave a surplus, the
extent of which shall be determined by a
notification issued by the State Government
from time to time.
Provided that where necessary         Provided that the surplus together
any amounts due for meeting the       with depreciation and taking account of
operating, maintenance and manage-  the liability for loan amortization and
ment expenses of the Board or for   taxes, shall be planned to leave a reasonable
the purposes of Clauses (i) and       amount for capital works and/or for payment
(ii) of Section 67 may, to such      of dividend on equity.
extent as may be sanctioned by
the State Government, be paid out          Provided further that if for any reason
of capital."                         beyond the control of the Board, the total
revenue in any year of account is inadequate
to meet all the expenditure chargeable to
revenue, the Board, after meeting operation,
maintenance and management expenses, shall
first pay interest on loans, bonds and
stocks not guaranteed under Section 65.
Also provided further that if in any
year the Board is not able to meet even the
operation, maintenance and management expenses,
the State Government may sanction, to the
extent necessary, that such expenses may be
paid out of borrowed funds.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Draft Proposed Amendments agreed between
Sec.                                              representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.              Existing Section                    negotiations (November 1975)
(1                                      (2)
S. 60(2)       All expenditure which the             All expenditure which the State Govern-
State Government may, not later       ment may, within a reasonable time after the
than two months after the first       first constitution of the Board, declare to
con,stitution of the Board,           have been incurred before the issue of the
declare to have been incurred         notification under sub-section (4) of Section 1
before the issue of the noti-         on capital account in connection with the
fication under sub-section (4)        purposes of this Act shall be deemed to be a
of aection 1 on capital account       loan advanced to the Board under Section 64
in connection with the purposes       on the date of the said declaration and all
of this Act shall be deemed to        the assets acquired by such expenditure shall
be a loan advanced to the Board       thereupon vest in the Board.
under Section 64 on the date of
the said declaration and all
the assets acquired by such
expenditure shall thereupon
vest in the Board.
s. 61(i)       In February of each year              In December each year, the Board shall
the Board shall submit to the         submit to the State Government and to the
State Government a statement          Authority a statement in the prescribed form
in the prescribed form of the         as provided in sub-section 2(c) of Section 78
estimated capital revenue             of the estimated capital and revenue receiDts
receipts and expenditure for          and expenditure for the ensuing year.  The
the ensuing year.                     said statement shall include a statement of
the important works to be carried out by the
Board. The 3oard shall take into consid-
eration any comments made by the Authority.
S. 62.1  Restriction on Unbudgeted              Restriction on Unbudgeted Expenditure
Expenditure
Save where in the opinion            ,There in the opinion of the Board,
of the Board circumstances of         circumstances of extreme urgency have
extreme urgency have arisen, no       arisen, the Board may incur expenditure
sum exceeding  seventy-five           not included in the statemenb submitted
thousand  rupees on account of        under sub-section (1) of sub-section (5)
recurring expenditure or exceed-    of Section 61, according to regulations
ing  three lakhs  of rupees on        made under Section 79 (a).
account of non-recurring
expenditure shall be expended
by the Board in any year of
account unless such sum has
been included in a statement
submitted under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (5) of Section  61.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Draft Proposed Amendments agreed between
Sec.                                              representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.              Existing Section                    negotiations (November 1975)
(1)                                     (2)
S.62.2        Where any such sum is expended  Delete existing section.
under circumstance of extreme urgency
a report thereon indicating the
source from which it is proposed to
meet the expenditure shall be made
as soon as practicable to the State
Government.
S.64     Loans to the Board                     Capital Structure of the Board
The State Government may,        (1)  The State Government shall provide
from time to time advance loans            funds to the Board from time to time,
to the Board on such terms and             in the form of share capital or loan
conditions not inconsistent                or both.  The loan shall be given on
with the provisions of this                 such terms and conditions as the
Act, as the State Government                State Government may determine.
may determine.
(2)  The State Government may convert any
portion of the loan advanced under
sub-section (1) or deemed to have been
advanced under Section 2 of Section 60
into share capital. All the share
capital shall be owned by the State
Government provided that at no time
the ratio of the share capital to the
total debt outstanding shall exceed
one .
3.67     llPriority of Liabilities of the       Delete existing section.
Board:
The revenues of the Board
shall, after meeting its ope-
rating, maintenance and management
expenses and after provision has
been made for the payment of taxes
on its income and profits, be
distributed as far as they are
available in the following order,
namely:
(i) interest on bonds not
guaranteed under Section 66;
(ii) interest on stock not so
guaranteed;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Draft Proposed Amendments agreed between
Sec.                                              representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.              Existing Section                    negotiations (November 1975)
(1)                          ~~~~~~~~~(2)
(iii) credits to depreciation
reserved under Section 68;
(iv) interest on bonds guaranteed
under Section 66;
(v) interest on sums paid by the
State Government under gua-
rantees under Section 66;
(vi) interests on sums paid by
the State Government under
guarantees under Section 66;
(vii) the write-down of amounts
paid from capital under the
proviso to Section 59;
(viii) contribution to general
reserve of an amount not
exceeding one half of one
percentum per annum of the
original cost of fixed
assets employed by the
Board so, however, that
the total standing to the
credit of such reserve shall
not exceed fifteen percentum
of the original cost of such
fixed assets;
(ix) interest on loans advanced or
deemed to be advanced to the
Board under Section 64,
including arrears of such
interest; and
(x) the balance to be appropriated
to a fund to be called the
Development Fund to be utilized
for:
(a) purposes beneficial in
the opinion of the Board,
to electrical developmTent
in the State;



ANNEX 5
Draft Proposed Amendments agreed between
Sec.                                              representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.              Existing Section                    negotiations (November 1975)
(1                                      (2)
(b) repayment of loans advanced
to the Board under Section
64 and required to be
repaid.
Provided that where no such
loan is outstanding, one half
of the balance aforesaid shall
be credited to the Consolidated
Fund of the State."
S.68     "Depreciation Reserve:                  Delete existing section and replace
with the following:
The Board shall create a depre-
ciation reserve and, as far as               The Board shall charge to revenue
compliance with the provisions of   each year depreciation calculated in
Section 67 makes it practicable       accordance with the principles laid doiwn
shall, at the end of every year,    by the Authority from time to time.
credit to such reserve from its
revenue an amount calculated in
accordance with the straight line
method of depreciation, that is
to say, such an amount as is
arrived at by dividing ninety
percent of the original cost of
the assets after taking into
account the sums already written
off and set aside in the books
of the Board, by the prescribed
period in respect of such assets.
Provided that the contribution
in respect of any asset to the
depreciation reserve under this
Section shall cease at the end
of the prescribed period or when
the asset ceases to be used by
the Board, whichever is earlier.
Provided further that if any
year it is not practicable fully
to comply with the provisions of
this Section, the amount by which
the sums actually credited falls
short of the amount required under
this Section in respect of that
year, shall be carried forward



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Draft Proposed Amendment agreed between
Sec.                                              representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.             Existing Section                     negotiations (Novenber 1975)
(1)                                     (2)
and together with simple interest
thereon at the Reserve Bank rate
ruling at the beginning of that
year, shall be credited to the
said reserve as soon as it is
found possible in accordance with
Section 67, so to do.
Provided further that the
accumulations in the depreciation
reserve may be invested in the
business of the Board, or utilized
for repayment of the principal of
any loan raised under Section 65
or for repayment of sums paid by
the State Government under gua-
rantees under Section 66.
Explanation: - In this Section,
?!prescribed period":
(i)  In relation to an asset
which becomes available
to the Board for its use
in its business before
the commencement of the
Electricity (Supply) Amend-
ment Act, 1966, means the
prescribed period as defined
in the Sixth Schedule reduced
by the number of years during
which sum asset was used or
capable of being used, such
years being computed from
the beginning of the year
neat following that in which
that asset became availabie
to the Board and up to the
end of the year ending on or
after such commencement.
(ii) In relation to any other asset
means the _re,cribed period as
so defined in the said schedule.



A!4 HX 5
Page 7
Draft Proposed Amendment agreeA between
Sec.                                             representatives of GOI and IDA during
No.             Existing Section                    negotiations (November 1975)
(1)                                     (2)
S. 69    "Accounts and Audit:
The Board shall cause proper         The Board shall cause proper accounts
accounts and other records in         and other records in relation thereto to
relation thereto to be kept,         be kept, including a proper system of
including a proper system of         internal check and prepare an annual state-
internal check and prepare an        ment of accounts, including the Consolidated
annual statement of accounts,        revenue Account and Net Revenue and Appro-
including the profit and loss        priation Account, a Statement of the Source
account and the balance sheet        and Application of Funds, and the balance
in such form as may be pres-          sheet in such form as may be prescribed by
cribed by the State Government        the State Government in consultation with
in consultation with the              the CEA and the Comptroller and Auditor-
Comptroller and Auditor-General      General of India.
of India.
s.6c(4)       The accounts of the Board             The accounts of the Board as certified
as certified by the Comptroller      by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
and Auditor-General of India or      India or any other person authorized by
any other person authorized by       him in this behalf together with the audit
him in this behalf together          report thereon shall be forwarded annually
with the audit report thereon         to the State Government within six months
shall be forwarded annually          of the close of the year of operation and
to the State Government and          that Government may issue such instructions
that Government may issue such       to the Board in respe^t thereof as it deems
instructions to the Board in         fit and the Board shall comply with such
respect thereof as it deems          instructions.
fit and the Board shall comply
with such instructions.



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
1/
Estimated Cost of Equipment Required for Part A of the Project
(Except where otherwise stated all figures in Rupees Millions)
Conductors                                                                                                  Control
Name of State or Regional                     and                                   Power                                            PLCC/              and        Power                         2/    Price
Electricity Board                   Groundwire   Towers  Insulators   Transformers   Switchgear   Capacitors   Load Despatch   Relay Panels   Cables   Misc.   Sub-total   Contingency   Total
WESTERN REGION
1.  Maharashtra State                       30.98        31.34        6.85           32.00           37.16          26.00           85.00            4.25             -       5.00       258.58          50.66       309.24
2.  Gujarat State                           55.28        63.86       12.30           27.00           21.20            -               -               2.20            -       0.90       182.74          35.78       218.52
3.  Western Regional                           -           -           -               -               -              -             40.00              -              -        -          40.00            7.80       47.80
EASTERN REGION
4.  Bihar State                             40.16        30.20        8.64            6.00            9.30            -              9.56            0.92          18.50      1.40       124.68          24.43       149.11
5.  West Bengal State                       43.21        32.26        9.39           17.80           13.08           4.00           13.10            0.88            7.00     2.72        143.44          28.09      171.53
6.  Eastern Regional                           -            -          -               -               -              -             40.00              -              -        -          40.00            7.80       47.80
TOTAL                                  169.63       157.66      37.18           82.80           80.74           30.00          187.66            8.25          25.50    10.02        789.44         154.56      944.00
US$ Millions                           (21.20)      (19.71)     (4.65)         (10.35)          (10.09)         (3.75)         (23.46)          (1.03)         (3.19)  (1.25)        (98.68)        (19.32)    (118.00)
1/  For detailed breakdown of sub-projects for each of the four State Electricity Boards see Annexes 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.5.
2/  Physical contingencies amounting to about 5% of the cost of equipment and materials are included in the cost of the
various components.
December 18, 1975



*2                                                                                                                        - 0*2
*2    *2      0   0>   0>  *2   *2   *2   *2   *2  *2    4   02   *2   0>   -    *2  *2   00  *2    04     *2'-   *2*2
*2  *2   0    *2  *2   *2   *2   *2   *2.  *2  *2  *2      *2     *2   04    1*2
*2  *2*2  *2  *2         *2         *2*2*2.*2*2*2>              0   *2        *2       *2    *2  *2*2   *20   1*2
*2  .0   *20   *2  00  00  >0  *2)  *2.  *2           0)  *2.  *2  *2  *2   *2*2    *2             0*2  0*2      0)  '*2
0*2*2*2*2*20                        *2           00  *2  --  *2  *2  *2                           *2    >2  >0*2  I>
0-  *2*20)0*20*2*2*20                             *2  *2  10        *2  *2  *2  *2  0>  *2    *2  -*2   *2>>
*2   0   *2    0>  00  *2  *2  *2  *2   *2*2*2*2*2*2    *2  *2  *2  *2  *2    0>                           0)  >0*2
*2        *20    *2  0    0    *2   0    *2  *2   *2   *2   *2   *2  *2   *2  *2    *2  *2   *2>    *2   *2*2          F
*2                               0>        *2                     *2  )  *2       *2    *2    *2
*2                               *2        *2                      *2  *2   *2     *2      *2     U>
*2>                              *2        *2
*2                               00        *2                      *2       *2     *2
0>       >0    *2       00         joo
0*2          A
0>00*2*2**2
II L'  *2>OOCOCCOCC*2OOO                                                                                                   r
00  *2  00  *2  *2  *2  *2   *2*2*2>00>0>    *2                                                                    000>0>
*20>
*2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2 *2
flu,'                                                                                                                           K
I)
*2       *2    *2    *2            100
   LI         '                                                                             *2        0      0      0           9
*2       *2                               *2      *2    U>           *2
U> *2* * *2**'*2 0> -
*2  U>               *2  *2  *2  *2  *2  '0  U>  00  0>  *2  00  00  *2   0                  -       0>    0>          *2
U>   *2    *2  '*2        00   *2  *2   *2   *2   *2   *2  U>   *2   U>   *2   *2  *2   *2   *2       *2      )     0>          *2
4Jt                                                                                                                *2
K
*2>9 *2000w



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT SO
GUJARAT STATE ELECTRICITY MOARD
(Except where otherwise stated all figures in Rupees millions)
Length (kh)           Total        Conductors                                                                             PLCC/          Control
Voltage         or                Cost of  I/      and                                    Power                                                         end          Power                                  Price
Item        Shb-p-roiet                 kV       C.Pocity (MVA)      Shb-proiect    Groundwire    Towers    Insulators   Transformers   Switehceer   Ceprcitors   Load D.npstch   Relay Panels   Csbles              Mi-c.      Sub-total    Contin.en.y   Total
1.    UkSi-Janb-aa D/C line           220          150 KM              54.95           17.53        12.94       3.95             -              -            -               -               -             -        0.20         34.62            6.78      41.40
2.   STkai-Valthan-Nevsani S/C
line an D/C Tower              220          150 KM               36.48            7.42       10.95        1.65            -              -             -               -               -             -       0.10         20.12            3.94       24.06
3.    Gandhinagar-Mehsana S/C line  220             70 KM              11.07            3.72         3.65       0.85             -              -             -               -               -             -       0.10          8.32            1.63        9.95
4.    Jetpur-Vallabhipur S/C line
o- D/C Tower                    220          185 KM              49.65           11.17        16,42       2.45            -              _             _               -               _             -        0.20         30.24            5.92      3h.16
5.    Jetp-r-Gondal D/C line          220           50 KM              12.04            4.00         3.00        0.90            -              -             -               -               -             -       0.10          8.00            1.57        9.57
6.    Wsnarkb-i-Godhra D/C line       220           55 KM
7.    Godhra-Kadana D/C line          220           95 KM
8.    Jetput-Bhatia S/C line on
D/C Tower                       220          170 KM              45,92           11.44        16090       2350             -             -             -               -               -                      0.20         31.04            6.07      37.11
9.    Valthan Shubtation              220          200 MVA             29.20             -            -           -             6.87           4.50           -               -             0.40            -        -           11.77            2.30       14.07
10.    Mehoana Subat-tion              220          100 MVA             16.34             _            _            _            2.97           1.50           -               -             0.10            -        -            4.57            0.89        5.46
11.    Rajp-rdi Sulhtsticn             220          100 MVA             31.14             -            -            -            2.97           4.70           -               -             0.60            -        -            8.27            1.63        9.90
12.   Wlllobhipcr Suhbtaticn           220           40 MVA              9.65             _                         _            2.29           1.50           -              -              0.20            -        -            3.99            0.78        4.77
13.    Gondal Sbubtaticn               220          200 MVA             32.26             -            -            -            5.95           4.00           -              -              0.50            -        _           10.45            2.05       12.50
14.    Bhatia SIbhtatios               220          200 MVA             26.40             _            -            -            5.95           5.00           -               -             0.40            -        -           11.35            2.22       13,57
TOTAl.                                                          355.10                        63.86       12.30         27.00          21.20           _                              2.20                    _.0         182.74           35.70     218.52
US$ Milli.o.                                                    (44.39l          (6.91)       (7.98)      (1.54)         (3.38)         (2.65)                                       (0.28)          -       (0.11)       (22.85)          (4.47)     (27,32)
V/  icladiui cntingenciea,
Dececbhe 18, 1975



'0   I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
r.    0.           3          0  r4   00    0   =(          0    =    '0    00    0    '
0                         (.  .4    00 _           4 . 0 0.              00
.0 ~    ~ 0           0.          0           0                                 
(0           0            (0~~~ 0 n S0  0.   0    0           0    0   '0     _
o~~~~~e o O 0                                         0: ' 0 >
=0  '0n              C      C
S0   _                      0     '    .       . 0 
s'            L 0-     '0     0    .       a    0(
O                    O             O   co   ::     O0
0.~ ~~~~~~~~ 0.                     n 
_    (                                           h      
0.   0.c        0                                    .. 0.  0-   0  0.n
I ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    0       0.   0.            I
0.0.   n. 0 
P ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 0                    0.o  0.  p 0 0
cO II              0.0.             0.   0.0           0.0.|  ,n
0.~   ~                       o 0.o 
0.  0.0.0            00.~~~~~~~~9 
([~~~~                                                                              Hs  



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
West Bengal State Electricity Board
(E-cept where othberise stated all figures in Rupees Millions)
Lesgth (M)          Total        Conduct-rn                                                                                                      Central
Voltage          or              Cost of            and                                     Power                                              PLCC/             and          Power                                 Price
Stem       So,b-pro-1-t             KV       Capacity (MVA)    Sab-projot-    Ocoundwire    Towers    Insulotors    Transformers    Soitthg-er    C.Pscitor-               Load Despatoh    Relay Panels    Cablon    Mien.          Sub-ntetl    Contingency   Tetrl
I     KCIaghat-Howrah D/C        220            75 KM             22.?9           8.19         6.30           1.89             -                -              -                -                               -       0.40         16.78           3.28        20.06
2     Kolaghat-Jeerat D/C        770           150 KM             47.57          16.9          13.00          3.90             -                -              -                -                 -             -       0.50         34.30           6.71        41.01
3     HRw-sh-KCabn  S/C
Limo (itcloding
cable crossIng of
ricer Hooghly)             220           75 KM             22.74            4.62         3.96          0.90              -               -              -                 -                -           7.00      0.40         16.88           3.31        20.19
4     Chondil-Sanrtldth S/C    400             100 KM             35.31           13.5          9.00          2.70                            --                -                                 -             -       0.92         26.12           5.11        31.23
5     Kolaghat S/S               220           300 MVA            21.11              -            -             -           10.80             5.81             _                 -              0.36            -          -         16.97           3.31        20,Z8
6     Ho-reh S/S                 220              -               17.95              -            -             -              -              1.60             -                -               0.04            -          -          1.64           0.32         1.96
7     Kacbe S/S                  220              -                1.63              -            -             -              -             0.40              _                _                 -             -          -          0.40           0,08         0.40
8     Jeerrt S/s                 220           200 MVA            39.37                                                      7.00            4.10                                               0.36            -          -         11.55           2.27        13.82
9     Chondil S/S                220              -                2.08              -            -             -              -              0.54             -                 -              0.06            -          -          0.60           0.12         0,72
10     Santaldih S/S              220              -                2.08              -            -             -              -             0.54              -                 -              0.06            -          -          0.60           0.12         0.72
11     80 MVAR, 33 KV shot
capacitor in banks of
10 MVAR at diff-r-nt
E.H.T. S/S                   -           00 MVAR             4.86             -            -              -              -               -            4.00                -                 -             -          -          4.00           0.78         4.78
12      PLCC & Load Denpatch
Eqoipacot                    -             -                13.01             -            -              -              -               -               -             13.10                -             -          -         13.10           2.56        15.66
13      Tosticg Lobor-tory
Eqoipment                    -              -                0.61                           -             -               -              -                       -                 -                      -       0.50          0.00           0.10         0.60
TOTAL          -                                           231.11          43.21        32.26          9.39           17.80           13.08           4.00             03.10             0.80           7.00      7.          143.44          70.09       171.57
US$ Millioso                                            (28.89)         (5.40)       (4.03)         (1.17)         12.23)          (1.64)         (fijo             (1.63)            (0.111        (0.88)   (0.34)        (17.93)         (3.51)      (21,44
1/ Isclodisg contingencie-.
Decchecb 18, 1975



Annex 7
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                           at end of Quarter
(thousands of US$)
1977
March 31, 1977                                                6,000
June  30, 1977                                               16,000
1978
September 30, 1977                                           26,000
December  31, 1977                                           36,000
March     31, 1978                                           48,0o0o
June      30, 1978                                           62,000
1979
September 30, 1978                                           81,000
December  31, 1978                                          100,000
March     31, 1979                                          1214,000
June      30, 1979                                          125,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                          133,000
December  31, 1979                                          137,000
March     31, 1980                                          113,000
June      30, 1980                                          1147,000
1981
September 30, 1980                                          149,000
December  31, 1980                                          150, 000



INDIA
MANARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICI'IY BOARD
Income Statement for FY 1972-1974 (Actual) and FY 1975 through 1979 (Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
Actual                                                      Forecast
March 31                                                     1972           1973          1974               1975          1976          1977          1978           1979
1.  Total Installed Capacity                                      (MW)                       1,178         1.208         1,208              1,392         1,948         2,228          2,228          3,140
2.  Maximum Effective Capacity                                    (MW)                       1,622         1,786         1,711              1,749         2,111         2,318          2,621          3,161
3.  Simultaneous Peak Demand                                      (MW)                         942           967           934              1,035         1,360          1,600         1,800          2,148
4.  Thermal Generation                                            CWh                        2,659         3,484         3,564              3,724         4,575         6,025          6,937          7,730
5.  Hydro Generation                                              GWh                        3,422         2,743         3,471              3,952         3,770          3,875         3,995          3,995
6.  Diesel Generation                                             GWh
7.  Energy Purchased                                              GWh                        1,193         1,134         1,462              1,121         1,245          1,230         1,290          1,360
8.  Total                                                         .Wh                        7,274         7,365         8,497              8,797         9,590        11,130         12,222         13,085
9.  Losses and Use in Auxiliaries                                GWh                         1,184         1,279         1,538              1,517         1,692          1,958         2,154          2,352
10.  Losses (as 7' of Energy Generated and Purchased) %                                           16.3          17.3          18.1               17,2          17.6          17.6          17.6            18
11.  Sales of Energy                                               GWh                        6,090         6.086         6,959              7.280         7,898_         9,172        10,068 _       10,733
12.  Average Revenue                                                                               9.8          11,2          12.7               14.9          14.6          15.0          16.2            15.3
13.  Average Revenue increase in tariff (paise/kWh)                                                 -                           -                  T            1.2            1.2           1.2            1.2
Operating Revenue
14.      Sales (at present scheduled rates)                                                     597.5          681.5         886.2           1,082.5        1,154.0       1,375.8       1,529.5        1,638.9
15.      Additional Revenue from Increased Tariffs                                                  -             -             -                  -           49.0         110.0         120.0           127.0
16.      Government Subsidy - R.E. Schemes Only                                                   12.4          15.8          13.9               16.0          20.0             -             -              -
17.      Government Subsidy - Agicultural Tariffs                                                 13.8          14.1          19.7               21.0          28.0             -             -              -
18.      Government Subsidy - Losses from Overall RE Operations                                     -             -             -                  -             -          121.3         171.0           182.0
19.      Other Revenues                                                                           25.8          36.0          47.0               55.9          63.5          65.0           78.0           97.0
20.    Total Operating Revenue                                                                  649.5          747.4         966.8            1,1           1,314,        1.672.1       1,898.5        2,044.9
Operating Expenses
21.      Fuel                                                                                    104.4         144.3         165.7              191.0         250.6         317.3         374.5          437.7
22.      Other Expenses                                                                          168.2         218.6         248.3              349.0         383.5         421.8         464.0           510.4
23.      Lease of Plant                                                                           89.8          92.4          92.3               93.3         121.0         173.3         173.3           173.3
24.      Cost of Purchased Power                                                                  86.2          83.5         132.8              114.2         139.4         151.3         175.4           202.6
25.      Depreciation                                                                             88.7         108.5         123.1              135.0         156.0         189.0         225.0           258.0
26.    Total Operating Expenses                                                                 537.3          647.3         762.2              882.5       1,050.5       1             1,412          1,582.0
27.  Operating Income (before interest)                                                          112.2         100.1         204.6              292.9         264.0         419.4         486.3           462.9
28.      Less:  Gross Interest                                                                   190.9         211.1         253.6              339.5         386.9         446.2         508.8           615.4
29.      Deduct:  Interest Capitalized                                                           (49.2)        (52.9)        (69.0)             (77.8)        (81.5)       (101.6)       (123.3)         (197.8)
30.      Deduct:  State Government Loan Interest not paid                                        (45.1)        (76.7)        (19.4)                 -          414                            -              -
31.      Net Interest Chargeable to Revenue                                                       96.6          81.5         165.2              261.7         264.0         344.6         385.5           417.6
32.  Net Surplus (Deficit)                                                                        15.6          18.6          39.4               31.2             -          74.8          100.8           45.3
33.      Less:  Fuel Expense for Previous Years                                                     -             -          (17.7)                        -                    -             -              -
34.              Write-off Intangible Assets                                                      (2.2)         (2.5)                            (3.5)            -           (4.0)         (4.0)          (4.0)
35.              General Reserve Contribution                                                    (13.4)        (16,1)        (18.2)             (19.6)            -         (24A90         (27.0)         (30.0)
36.      Net Balance                                                                                -             -             -                 8.1             -          46.8           69.8           11.3
37.  Average Rate Base                                                                        2,256.0       2,718.0        2,936.9           3,321.0        3,727.0       4,414.0       5,355.0        6,249.0
38.  Rate of Return (Line 27 as % of Line 37)                                                      5.0           3,7           8.6                8.8            7.1           9.5           9.1            7,4
39.  Interest (Line 28 less 29 as "/ of Line 37)                                                   6.2           5.8           6.3                7.9           8.2            8.3           7.2            6.7
40.  Operating Ratio (Line 26 as 7O of Line 20)                                                   83.0          87.0          79.0               75.0            79.9         75.0          74.0           77.0
41.  Contingent Liability - Unpaid Interest on State
Government Loans - Rs million                                          45.1         121.8         141.2              141.2           182.6        182.6         182.6          182.6
42.  No. of Consumers connected  (million)                                                          -            1.46          1.67
1/ Assumed tariff increase cffective from October 1, 1976.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Condensed Balance Sheets for FY1972-1974 (Actual) and for FY1975 through FY1979  Forecast
(in million of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
March 31:                                                    1972            1973           1974               1975           1976            1977           1978           1979
ASSETS
Gross Assets                                                            3,027.1        3,408.2        3,938.7            4,556.0         5,256.0        6,556.0        7,756.0         9,656.0
Less Depreciation                                                   (409.9)         (518,1)        (641.5)            (776.5)        (932.5)      (1,121-5)       (1,346.5)      (1.604.5)
2,617.2        2,890.1        3,297.2            3,779.5        4,323.5         5,434.5        6,409.5        8,051.5
Work in Progress                                                          827.6        1,009.4         1,124.6           1,199.0         1,340.7        1,700.2        1,980.7           938.7
Written down unserviceable assets                                           4.2             2.4            1.9                1.9             1.9            1.9            1.9             1.9
Total - Gross Assets                                              3,449.0        3,901.9        4,423.7            4,980.4         5,666.1        7,136.6         8,392.1        8,992.1
Current Assets
Stores                                                                254.2          232.9          272.2              280.0          216.9           274.1          207.6           170.8
S. Debtor (Electricity Supplied)                                      128.8          153.7          185.0              225.0           270.0          300.0          375.0           412.0
Other Accounts payable                                               309.8           301.4          324.0              320.0           340.0          420.0          470.0          480.0
Deposits& Cash                                                         96.0          135.5          137.4              110.8           120.0          130.0           130.0          130.0
Total - Current Assets                                              788.8           823.5          918.6              935.8          996.9        11241            ,186          1192.8
Total - Assets                                                        4,237.8         4,725,4        5342.3                            6,663.0         8,260.7        9.574.7       10,184.9
LIABILITIES
Reserves                                                                  155.9           175.8          203.7              234.9          234.9          309.7           410.5          455.8
Long Term Debt
Consolidated Loan 1967                                               312.2           312.2          312.2              312.2           312.2          312.2          312.2           312.2
Loan for RE Schemes                                                  783.6           912.6          941.7              969.7           979.7        1,099.7        1,224.7        1,341.7
Major Generation & Transmission                                       918.0        1,056.7        1,228.0            1,538.6        2,064.8         3,324.2        4,270.7        4,600.6
Tarapur Power                                                           5.0            4.5             4.0                3.5            3.0            2.5             2.0            1.5
Debenture Bonds                                                      483.7           607.3          684.3              761.4           838.3          915.3          992.3        1,069.3
Other LIC                                                             226.0          275.5           334.5             356.1           372.3          389.9          409.1           429.9
REC                                                             76.8          126.7          171.0              231.0          320.9           387.3          462.5           520.5
HFC                                                            183.8          216.1          252.9              234.9           210.5          174.7          125.1            76.1
Other                                                           25.7           40.0           119.8             166.7           136.2          114.0           76.4            33.1
Total - Debt                                                      3,014.8        3p551           4 8               4,574.1         5,237.9        6,719.8         7,875.0        8384.9
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                                     289.5           311.8          399.2              400.0          450.0           450.0          470.0           475.0
Bank Overdraft                                                        118.9           52.1             5.9                 -              -
Other Accounts payable                                                217.1          232.0          112.4              117.0           130.0          148.0          160.0           180.0
Arrears of Interest State Government Loans                            191.6          160.7          297.4              297.4           297.4          297.4          297.4           297.4
Total - Current Liabilities                                         817.1           756.6          814.9              814.4          877.4           895.4          927.4           952.4
Consumers Contributions                                                    79.4           100.6          114.5              132.0          152.0           175.0          201.0           231.0
Deferred Payment Loans                                                    170.6           140.8          160.8              160.8           160.8          160.8          160.8           160.8
Total - Liabilities                                                  42_37.8          4              5,342.3            5.916.2         6,663,0                       9.574.7        10.184.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                         95/5            95/5           95/5               95/5           95/5            95/5           94/6            94/6
Contingent Liability - Unpaid Interest on
State Government Loans                         45,1          121.8           141.2              141.2          182.6          182.6           182.6          182.6



C   C   I'      C-C-C-C   C-C-C-C   C-C-C-                  C-C-C-C-C-C   -C-  'C
C H    CC-                 C-          CC                 C-              C- C- IN    C -3CC-IC-C-H
C-C-NC-N                   C           C-C-                               C-NC    C-OCC-C-   C C-
N   N             C-           C                  13              33       -   3   N   C-  C   C   C   C   N
C-C           --  C   N                  IN               C   -3        C   H            C   C-  C            C-C-   C   C   -        -
C-N           C NC  N                    C                C-C           NC               C- C             CC-    C NC
C-          3CCCN,C-                   N                C   NC-HOC-C    C-CC-  NINC-  N                 C-  C       C   -   C   C
C-  uC  N CNCC-CN  CNNC-CCC
CC            C   C   C-           C-CCC-   C      CC   C-          C-      C.C-CC.CC-3C    C             C   C   'N  C   C   C   N   C
NC-           N  C-        C-  C   CCN
NC-           N        C   -C      NC  C-C   N IIC'C-           NC-CC-         CNC'C-C       N            C   C   C   C   C   C   N   C-  N
CC- N C CC-C NC C C-CC-tN 033CC-C C- C
C             C       -                                                     C-CC-C    C
NCHC-C.N    CCC  C-NC   N CC-CCC  N                                             C N C C C C - C-
N   C   NC        N      C-    N   CC-C-C  C-                    (C       -'N  C-  C-  C-
3'  C-  N   C      NC-N    C-         C   C   NC   N   C   NC  C-N3C   C  'C          C   C-  C   C       C   C-  C-  C   C-
C-N           C-  N                C   C-    C        C   N   CC-C-C   C   CN        C-  C   C        C   C   C.  C   C   C  C   C-  C.  -
-.3-C-        C-      C-  -'.      C-C-C-    CCC3,N,3   CNC-CNC,CCCC                    C-C-             C       N   C   -   C   N
N33C'         C-  -  H   C-         C       CCCCC            C-C-CC   C   C-CC-CC-   C   C           .33  C-  C-  C-     C   C-  C   C
*             C-  -        C-        CC-    CNNNN    C   -C CNNCCCNNC-                       C                            C            C
N           C-  C-  -P  C          CC      C-C   CC   C-  C-  pC-         C-C  --N         C-.     C        C-              C-      C-
C           'N   C      C          CN        C-CC-C   C         CC             NC-N        C-      C-  C-  C-               C   H   C
'33.3             C   'N             N C    NCCCN    C-  IN  CC-            C-    'C'                         C-                ,   C
CC                                     C-    CNC-N        C  C-  C.3C       N   C-C-C       '-'      C-  C-  C-               C   C   N
N           C-  'N  C              'N     C-           C   C     C       C   CCC-                  C   C-  C                C.  C  N
NC C C C CC- C-C-IC-C C C-C- C C-C-C C C C
C-            N   C        C         CC-    CC-'C         C   -C  CC        C   CC                        C   C
CC C C I- C.C C CC- C C CC C 3CC- C -C. N
CC C 3-3 C-C-C-C- N C CC C-C. 'C- C-
C C 'N C CC-C-CC- C CC 'NC- C
CC            C       C-  C-           C    33CC-C        C         C                                     C
CC-               C-  C-               C    NCCC-         C
CC            C       C-  C-           N    CC-C          N                      C-             'C
C-C-          C   C-  C-  C-           C       CC-C    'C-                       N               C-
C                 C-      C-                 C-CCC.                              C
CCC
C                                IC-
C-C                                                                                                                                                       C     C
LI                                        C.            C      C-
C-3           C-         C-                     C-FC-       (CC-C-C-IC-                     C     C-C
[CC-C-C-C                      -C-      C-  C-
C- C-                                      C-                 C-C-IC-IC-                        i'C-C-C-r                               C   CC-
C-  C-  C-                                      C-IC-C-C-C-                                                     C-  C-  C-  C-                    C3C
C-C-          C-'NC-1C-C-jC-,                                                                                                                          C-  C-C-
[C-          C-  C-      C-                             C      CC-
C-'                              C-             C    C'
C-              'N                             C-     C-      C-         C-        -            C-  C-      C-  C-       C-    'C-          C     C-Cl
C-  C-          C-             C-      C-  C-  C-IC-C-C-C-    C-C-I  'C-    C-rC-  C-  C-  C-  C-  3  C-  C-  C-  C-  C-                   -      C-C-
C-  C-  C-  C-  C-  'C-C-C-  C-33 C-  C-C-NC-C-C-C-    C-C-  C-  C-                   C-  C-  C-  C-       C-  C-  C-  C-  C-
..iv..lJ    CIW.  A.'   --  3.3                                                                                   C-   C  C-C- H
-            C-CC-C-C1gC-C- IC-I                                           C-IC-C-C-                                                          C         C
C- C-           C-  'CC- C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-,  C-                                   C-C-C-IC-ICC-  IC-IC-
NC                                                      IC-C-IC-I
-..       I                                     C'C-   C-IC-         C-C-        C-IC-
C-C-          C-  C-  C-  C-  C   'NC-C- C-               C-  C-C-C-C-C-    CC-  C-  C-   C-
C-C-C           -V             C-    C -C   -C-        'C                 C-
C-C-                I                                            C-CHC-O3NCL                                     0
C-C-H    C-  C-  'IC-C- C-  C-C- 'C-  C   -C-C-C-C-C-    C-C-  C-  C-
U'  -             C-C-C-C-C-C- C-C-C-    C-C-  C-  C-   C-
C-              C-            IC-VC-C-  I C-IC- I   C-C-    C           -H        hi           C- I C-  C-  C-  C-      C-IC-
C-  C-          C- I NC        C-  C-  C- I C- I C-C-C-C-C-   C-C-  C-  C-    -NC    'N  C-  'C  IC-  C-  C-  C'            IC-
C-  C-  C-  C-  C-  '.3331 C-C-C-C-IC-C-  IC-C-C-C-C-    C-C-  C-  C-    CC-    C-  N' IC-  C-  C-                      C- IC-
C-  C   C-  C-  ollo    C-  C-C-  C- I C-  'C-CC-C-C-    C-C-  C-  C-   C-
C-                                                                                               IC-I   C-  C-             C-  C-      C-
C-          C-               C-    V.      11-'-.  C- I C-  I C-IC-  C-C-    C-      C-        IC-IC-   C-  C-  C-  'N   C           -C-  C-
C-N           C-  C-           C-  C-1   C-  C-CC-C-C-C-C-C-C-               (CC-C-I IC-      C-IC-IC-C    C-C-C-C-C-IC-C-
C   N                                I       I-I  -   -   I'  I   I                                           C-   C-  C-  C-  C       C-   C-
N           C-  C-  C-  C-  C-  CIC-  C-  C-  C-  C- I C- I C-C-C-C-C-     C-C-C-    C-   C-
NC            C-  C-               C-IC-  C  IC-C-C-   C-  CC-C-C-C-C-C-Cl C                  C-IC-IC-C-   C-  C-  C-  C-  C           C- IC-  C
C-          C-  C-  C-       C-  C-IC-I C-  C-IC-IC-   C-  C-C-C-C-C       C-C-C     C      C-IC-IC-C-   C-  C-  C-  C-  C-          C- IC-  C-
C-N           -                               ..    b   C-IC-C-CC           C-CC      C      C-                                               '-I
C-I C  IC----.33                                                                                                        C-
C'                            I C-                      s         [C'          C-  I       C-   C-      C-
I                                               '1          -   '        'C-
C-C-NC   C-  C-I  C-  C- I C-        C-C-    C-         C-        IC-          C-    C-  C-  C-        C   -C-
I                              C-C-C-     C-    C-           C-    C-    C-    C-    C-   C-    C-
C-C             -C-C-IC-  C-   II t'    C- I C-C-C-C-C-      C-C-C-Il C-          C-           C-  C-C-C-C-IC-C                                          -C-
C-  C-  C   C-  C-  C-C-' C-  C-       C- IC-'C-C-C-C-C-                                           IC-
F                                               C-
C-  C-  C-  C-  C   C-C  C-        C-  C   C- I C-C-C-C-C-    C-C-C-    C-   C-
INC-[C  -C- IC-I-C- C-FCC-C-C   CI                               LI   C-C-C-C-C-C                      -C-C-
C-  C-                    C-  C-IC-C-  I C-IC-C-C-C- C-    C-IC- C -I I C-    C-  OWN   C-  C
C-C-C-C-C-C-IC-I C-  IC-'IC-IC-  C-rC-C-C(C                   C-[NC-    C-    C-  C-[C-  C   C   C   C-  C-  C-          C   C-
C-  C-  C-  U'  'o             LI'   K0



INDIA
GUJARAT STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Condensed Balance Sheets at end of FY 1972 to FY 1974 (Actual) and FY 1975 through FY 1979  (Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
Actual                                                         Forecast
March 31:                                                         1972           1973          1974                 1975           1976          1977          1978           1979
ASSETS
Gross Assets                                                             1,750.7       2,202.5        2,392.7              2,823.9       3,606.0        5,073.3       6,137.0       7,207.9
Less Depreciation                                                     (318.9)       (379.9)        (447.5)              (535.5)       (650.1)       (776.1)        (953.6)     (1.168.1)
1,431.8       1,822.6       1,945.2               2,288.4       2,955.9       4,297.2        5,183.4       6,039.8
Work in Progress                                                           549.0         469.1          626.5                811.8          694.2         435.8         385.1           72.6
Obsolete Assets                                                              0.6            0.3           0.3                                  -             -              -             -
Total Fixed Assets                                              19.            2,292.0       2,572.0              3100..2        ,650.         4,733.0 I5,2568.5            6,112.4
Current Assets
Stores (at cost)                                                       205.2         211.1          188.8                184.0         180.0          175.0         280.0         360.0
S. Debtors (for electricity supplied)                                   51.6          74.5           91.1                118.0         140.0         176.0          228.0         260.0
Other Debtors                                                          132.0         122.4          178.5                158.0         160.0          160.0         170.0         170.0
Investments                                                              8.1           9.6            8.0                  8.0           9.0           9.0           10.0          10.0
Cash - Bank                                                             62.4          56.5           79.6                 80.4          80.0           70,2          70.8          81.7
Deferred Expenses                                                        2.1           2.6            2.3                  2.3           2.3            2.3           2.3            2.3
Ukai Project A/c (Agency basis)                                         90.2         109.8          122.0                130.0            -              -             -              -
Total - Current Assets                                              551.6          586.5         670.3                680.7          571.3         592.5          761.1         884.0
Total - Assets                                    25                          ,2       ,878.5      2_ 2                   3,780.9     4                5,325.5      6,329.6      69_96.4
LIABILITIES
Reserves - General Revenue                                                  58.2          68.4           96.7                105.4          170.8         316.2         546.0          9O5.5
Other Revenues                                                  15.1          22.0           31.5                 31.5          31.5           31.5          31.5           31.5
Total - Revenue                                                       73.3          90.4         128.2                 136.9         202.3         347.7          577.5         936.0
Long-tem debt
State Government Loans                                              1,276.4        1,415.5       1,530.9              1,795.1        2,095.3       2,878.0        3,450.2       3,578.0
Bonds                                                                 299.5          343.5         393.0                442.5          492.0         538.0          590.7         649.0
LIC                                                                    142.1         174.4          209.7                297.0         333.1         370.9          411.3         451.6
REC                                                                     28.7          42.9           57.8
AFC                                                                     53.7          80.0           79.3                295.6         375.6          455.1         527.1         591.6
Commercial Banks                                                        61.1          61.1           61.5
Total - Debt                                                     1861.5        2,117.4        2,332,2              2.830.2       3,296.0        4,242.0       4,979.3        5,270,2
Current liabilities
Amounts payable                                                         23.5          28.7           30.8                 30.2          30.0           30.0          35.0           35.0
Other Creditors                                                         79.2          78.9           86.8                 90.0          91.0           92.0          95.0           95.0
Other Liabilities                                                      308.1         342.6          399.8                407.8         288.3          283.0         290.0         290.0
Deposits     repayable                                                  89.9         106.5          126.7                130.0         140.0          145.0         150.0          150.0
Total - Current Liabilities                                        500.7          556.7         644.1                658.0          549.3         550.0          570.0         570.0
Consumers Contributions                                                     97.5          114.0         137.8                155.8          173.8         185.8         202.8          219.2
Total - Liabilities                                                     2,533.0       2                                   3,780.9       4,221.4        5,325.5       6,329.6       69_96.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                           96/4           96/4         95/5                  95.5           94/6          92/8           90/10         85/15
Contingent Liability - Unpaid interest on
State Government Loans                                           111.1          133.2         179.3                183.8          183.8         183.8          183.8         183/8



INDIA - BIHAR STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Income Statement for fiscal years 1972 - 1974 Actual. FY 1975 through 1979 (Forecast) and FY 1977 - 1979 (Modified Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees, except where otherwise stated)
---------- Actual --------                       ------------------ Forecast ----------------                   ----Modified Forecast ---- 8/
1972        1973         1974                    1975        1976       1977        1978       1979             1977       1978        1979
1   Total Installed Capacity             MW                           467          568         576                      560        740         915       1025        1025
2   Total Effective Capacity             MW                           300          384           -                      490         -           -          -           -
3   Simultaneous Peak Demand             MW                           490          514         630                     606         675         780        920        1050
4   Thermal Generation                   GWh                         1435         1949        1880                     2200       2386        2775       3397        4002
5   Hydro Generation                     GWh                            3            4            4                      -          -           92        184         184
6   Energy Purchased                     GWh                         1030         1084         957                      984       1171        1225       1251        1341
7   Total Energy Available               GWh                         2468        3037         2841                    3184        3557       4092        4832        5527
8   Losses (including Station Use)  GWh                               622         1097        1056                      994       1062        1184       1356        1491
9   Losses (as % of line 7)                                            25%          36%          37%                     31%        30%         29%        28%         27%
10   Sales of Energy                      GWh                         1846         1940        1785                     2190       2495        2908       3476        4036             2908       3476        4036
11   Average Revenue (paise per kWh sold)                               15.8         16.1         16.8                    18.7       19.5        18.5        18.5       18.5
1lA  Average Revenue from increased tariff                               -            -            -                       -           2.6 1/    4.5          4.5        4.5
Operating Revenue
12       Sales (at Scheduled Rates)                                    292.6        312.6       300.0                    408.7      461.7       538.1      645.1       753.0
13       Revenue from Proposed Tariff Increases                          -            -            -                       -          51.0      130.7      156.4       181.6
14       Government Subsidy (Rural Electrification)                      -            -            -                       -            -        83.0       72.0 2/   52.0 2/
15       Fuel Surcharge                                                  -                        34.5                    83.3        96.6      112.6      134.8       157.4
16       Fuel Surcharge - additional recovery                            -            -            -                       -            -        84.4       89.2       104.6
17       Other Revernue                                                 14.9         21.5         19.0                    34.4        36.7       38.4       40.4        42.4
18          Total Operating Revenue                                    307.5        334.1       353.5                    526.4      646.0       987.2    1137,9       1291.0            987.2      1137.9    1291.0
Operating Expenses
19       Fuel Cost                                                      45.4         67.4         90.7                   162.4      170.2       182.1      207.7       238.7
20       Other Operating Expenses                                       93.5        117.4        111.2                   147.6      198.0 4/  221.0 4/  236.0 4/  261.0 4/
21       Cost of Purchased Power                                        78.0         76.6         81.6                   111.0      158.1       182.0      185.8       199.1
22       Depreciation                                                   59.3         56.3 5/    40.5 _/                   41.0 5/   98.1        119.3      146.3       176.9
23          Total Operating Expenses                                   276.2        317.7       324.0                    462.0      624.4       704.4      775.8       875.7            704.4       775.8      875.7
24   Operating Income (before Interest)                                 31.3         16.4         29.5                    64.4        21.6      282.8      362.1       415.3            282.8       362 1      415.3
25   Less - Gross Interest for year                                    116.3        127.6        148.1                   178.3      215.5       255.1      299.0       341.3            207.9       254.7       297.8
26   Deduct State Government loan interest not paid 6/                 (74.4)       (79.3)       (77.0)                 (124.8)    (193.9)        -           -          -               -           -           -
27   Deduct Interest on Guaranteed loans not met from revenue              -        (15.6)       (24.2)                                                                                                          -
28   Deduct Interest capitalized                                       (17.2)       (16.3)       (25.4)                                -     _-                           -             (45.5)   (43,    (       51.6)
29   Net Interest Chargeable to Revenue                                 24.7         16.4         21.5                    53.5        21.6      255.1       299.0      341.3             1624 4211.2            246 2
30   Net Surplus                                                         6.6          -            8.0                    10.9          -        27.7        63.1       74.0             120.4      150.9       169.1
31   Average Rate Base                                                1601         1865        2081                     2238       2558        3160       3806        4363             3160        3806       4363
32   Rate of Return (line 24 as % of 31)                                  2.0         -           (0.6)                    0.7         0.8        8.9         9.5        9.5               8.9        9.5         9.5
33   State Government Loan interest not paid during year                74.4         79.4         77.0                   124.8       193.9        -           -          -                -          -           -
34   Contingent liability for Interest (accumulated)                   428.6        508.0        585.0                   709.8       903.7      903.7       903.7       903 .7          903.7
35   Depreciation not paid during year                                   -           16.1         42.2                    48.7          -       (27.7)      (63.1)      (16.2)         (107.0)
36   Contingent Liability (depreciation accumulated)                      -          16.1         58.3                   107.0       107.0        79.3       16.2
37   Number of Consumers                                             452,000    483,874       520,000
38   Number of Employees                                              31,042       36,930      40,000
39   Number of Consumers per employee                                   14.6         13.1         13.0
0)



ANNEX 10.1
Page 2 of 2 pages
INDIA
Bihar State Electricity Board
Notes to Income Statements Forecast for
FY 1975 through FY 1979
1.        Revised tariffs proposed by the SEB were implemented from July 1975.
2.        The proposed Government subsidy to cover losses from rural electrifi-
cation operations is assumed to commence from April 1976.  It would not increase
the rate of return to be achieved by the SEB over 9-1/2% e.g. in FY 1978 a
reduced subsidy of Rs 72 million is forecast compared to a loss from rural
electrification operations of Rs 91 million, and a reduced subsidy of Rs 52.0
million in FY 1979 compared with losses of Rs 100 million.
3.        No provision is made for fuel price increases after FY 1975.  The
fuel clause does not recover the full fuel price increase, but it is assumed
that the formula will be modified to do so from April 1976.
4.        The forecast after operating expenses provide for increased costs
arising from inflationary conditions with increases of 15%, 15%, l0% and 10%
in each of the FY 1976 through FY 1979.
5.        The annual depreciation provision shown represents only part of the
annual depreciation accrual due to the distribution priority set out in Section
67 of the Act. The portion not pr6vided for is shown as a contingent liability
in lines 35 and 36. The unreduced annual depreciation accruals have however
been reflected in the rate base for the rate of return calculations.
6.        Line 26 shows the extent to which the interest accrual on State
Government loans was not covered by surplus revenue. The accumulated contingent
liabilities for unpaid interest on State Government loan amounted to Rs 903.7
million at March 31, 1975.



INDIA - BIHAR STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Statement showing in Sections A & B the Distribution of Revenue in accordance with the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948
and Section C - the Sources of Funds for Investment for PY 1973 through FY 1979
(in millions of Rupees)
Actual                                Forecasts
March 31                                              1973       1974              1975       1976        1977        1978        1979
SECTION A - Distribution of Revenue (S.67 Electricity (Supply) Act 1948)
Operating Revenue (before depreciation)                                     72.7        70.0            105.4      119.7       402.1       508.4       592.2
Distributed in following priority:-
Interest on Loans (Not guaranteed by State Government)                  (16.4)      (18.4)           (19.3)     (21.2)      (22.6)      (24.3)      (26.7)
Depreciation                                                            (56.3)      (40.5)           (41.0)      (98.1)    (119.3)    (146.3)    (176.9)
Interest on Loan -(Guaranteed by State Government)                         -        ( 3.1)           (34.2)       0.4       (57.3)      (75.6)      (89.3)
Write off - Intangible Assets                                                    -         _
General Reserve - appropriation                                            -        ( 8.0)           (10.9)         -           _          _           _
Interest on State Government Loans under S.64                           (16.3)      (25.4)              _                  (175.2)    (199.1)    (225.3)
Total                                                           (89.0)      (95.4)          (105.4)    (119.7)      (374.4)    (445.3)    (518.2)
Less Interest Capitalized - not chargeable to Revenue                    16.3        25.4               -                       -          -           -
Net Distribution                                                         72.7        70.0           (105.4)    j119.7)    ( .4)    (445.3)    (518.2)
Available for Investment                                                   -           -                -           -         27.7       63.1        74.0
SECTION B - Distribution of Depreciation (S.68 Electricity(Supply)Act 1948)
Depreciation Appropriated (as above)                                        56.3        40.5             41.0        98.1       119.3       146.3      176.9
Depreciation Appropriated for Arrears                                        0.5          -                -           -           -           -          -
Repayment of Loans (other than State Government Loans)                      (5.6)       (6.6)           (16.7)      (28.4)      (28.7)      (24.6)     (49.5)
Repayment of State Government Loans (not considered S.64 loans)             (0.9)       (0.7)           ( 5.2)      ( 5.2)      ( 5.2)      ( 5.2)     ( 5.2)
Utilized for Replacement of Plant                                             _         (1.5)              -           _    -            -                -
Available for Investment                                                 50.3        31.7             19.1        64.5       85.4       116.5       122.2
SECTION C - Other Funds available for Investment
State Government Loans under Section 64                                     69.2       125.8  )         146.6       272.2       320.8       197.7      179.9
State Government Loans (not considered S.64 loans)                          62.8        18.5  )
Bonds                                                                       71.5       112.8            112.8       123.8       128.8       112.8      112.8
Life Insurance Corporation Mortgage Loans                                   20.0        25.0             27.5        31.5        36.0        49.0       75.0
Rural Electrification Corporation Loans                                     40.5        30.1             60.0        50.0       150.0       220.       230.0
Total                                                           264.0       312.2            346.9       477.5       635.6       579.5       597.7
State Government Grant                                                       3.5          -                -           -           -           -           -
Consumers Contributions                                                      6.1         4.4             18.0        20.0        22.0        24.0       26.0
General Reserve appropriated from Revenue                                     -          8.0             10.9          -           -           -           -
Working Capital (Increase)/Decrease                                        (30.4)        6.7             41.3        (5.5)      (19.0)      (31.5)      (16.8)
Available for Investment                                                243.2       331.3            417.1       492.0       638.6      572.0       606.9
Capital Investment (including Interest during Construction)
Financed from funds - Sections A + B + C)                                  293.5       363.0            436.2       556.5       751.7       751.6       8061 .1
Interest on Guaranteed loans not met from revenue - claimed
from S. Governments                                                         15.6        39.8               -           -           -           -          -
Contingent Liability for Depreciation not appropriated in year                    16.1       42.2             48.7           _       (27.7)      (63.1)      (16.2)     o
Contingent Liability for Depreciation not appropriated (accumulated)              16.1       58.3             107.0      107.0        79.3        16.2          -
Contingent Liability for Interest on S. Government Loan unpaid in year            79.4       77.0             124.8      193.9          -           -           -
Contingent Liability for Interest on S. Government Loan accumulated             508.0       585.0             709.8      903.7       903.7       903.7       903.7



INDIA - BIHAR STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Statement showing Sources and Application of Funds for FY 1976 through FY 1979
(in millions of Rupees)
FORECAST                                     MODIFIED FORECAST
March 31                                1976        1977       1978        1979                 1977        1978        1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income (before Interest)                        21.6       282.8      362.1       415.3                  -           -            -
Depreciation                                        98.1       119.3      146.3       176.9                  -           -            -
Cash Generation                                    119.7       402.1      508.4       592.2                402.1       508.4       592.2
Borrowing
State Government Loans                             272.2       320.8      197.7       179.9                  -           -            -
Bonds                                              123.8       128.8      112.8       112.8                  -           -           -
Life Insurance Corporation Mortgage Loans           31.5        36.0       49.0        75.0                  -           -            -
Rural Electrification Corporation Loans             50.0       150.0      220.0       230.0                  -           -            -
Total - Borrowing                                  477.5       635.6      579.5       597.7                654.9       579.5       597.7
Consumers Contributions                                20.0        22.0       24.0        26.0                  22.0        24.0        26.0
Working Capital (Increase)/Decrease                    (5.5)      (19.0)    (31.5)        (13.8)               (19.0)       (0.9)       21.7
611.7      1040.7    1080.4       1202.1               1060.0      1111.0      1237.6
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure (including Interest
during Construction)                  556.5        751.7      751.6       806.1                797.2       795.1       854.7
Debt Service
Gross Interest for Year                             21.6       255.1      299.0       341.3                207.9       254.7       297.8
Less Interest during Construction                                 -          -            -                 45.5        43.5        51.6
Net Interest                                        21.6       255.1      299.0       341.3                162.4       211.2        246.2
Amortization
State Govt. Loans (S.64)                          -           -          -           -                   24.2        25.1        25.6
LIC                                              10.2        12.3       22.7        46.0                 12.3        22.7        46.0
Bonds on Maturity                               11.0         16.0        -           -                   16.0         -           -
Other loans                                     12.4          5.6        7.1         8.7                  5.6         7.1         8.7
33.6        33.9       29.8        54.7                 58.1        54.9         80.3
Total Debt Service                                552.0        289.0      328.8       396.0                220.5       266.1        326.5
Bond Redemption Fund - Contributions                 -           -          -           -                   42.3        49.8         56.4
611.7      1040.7    1080.4       1202.1               1060.0       1111.0      1237.6
-/ Gross Interest R 215.5 million less unpaid Rs 193,6 million.
1/Gross Intere-st R 215.5 million less unpaid Rs 193.6 million.



INDIA - BIHAR STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Condensed Balance Sheets at end of FY 1972 through FY 1974 (Actual) and FY 1975 through FY 1979 (Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
---   Actual ---------         --------------- Forecast ---------------    --- Modified Forecast--
March 31                        1972      1973      1974        1975      1976      1977      1978      1979           1977      1978      1979
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                            2112.6   2401.6   2638.3        2885.6   3509.4   4244.2   5024.0   5528.8            4244.2   5069.2   5617.8
Less Depreciation                     (325.5)  (382.3)  (421.3)    (462.3)  (640.9)  (787.9)  (997.3) (1190.4)              (867.2) (1013.5) (1190.4)
Net Fixed Assets in Service           1787.1   2019.3   2217.0        2423.3   2868.5   3456.3   4026./   4338.4            3377.0   4055.7   44Z7.4
Work In Progress                         390.0    394.5    520.8         709.7    642.4    659.3    631.1    932.4              704.8    674.9    981.0
Total - Fixed Assets                  2177.1   2413.8   2737.8        3133.0   3510.9   4115.6   4657.8   5270.8            4081.8   4730.6   5408.4
Current Assets
Cash and Investments                    63.9      58.2      71.1        74.2      99.7      88,5    100.0       73.8           88.5     69.4        7.7
Stores                                 192.9    210.3    210.0         240.0    270.0    300.0    320.0    320.0             300.0    320.0    320.0
Accounts Receivable - Energy           272.4    347.8    383.8         350.0    300.0    300.0    285.0    325.0             300.0    285.0    325.0
Other Debtors                          134.7    165.1    145.8         145.0    145.0    145.0    160.0    160.0             145.0    160.0    160.0
State Government Suspense A/C            -        15.6      39.8         -         -         -         -         -             -         -         -
Total - Current Assets                 663.9    797.0    850.5         809.2    814.7    833.5    865.0    878.8             833.5    834.4    812.7
Bond Redemption Fund - Investments   -             -         -           -         -         -         -         -            42.3      92.1    148.5
Total - Assets                        2841.0   3210.8   3588.3        3942.2   4325.6   4949.1   5522.8   6149.6            4957.6   5657.1   6369.6
LIABILITIES
Reserves and Surplus                      59.1      61.6      69.6        80.5         -     231.5    231.5    289.3           1230.6   1381.5   1550.6
Debt
State Government Loans               1749.2   1818.4   1944.2         2090.8   2363.0   2683.8   2881.5   3061.4                 -         -         -
Bonds                                  170.0    241.5    354.3         467.1    579.9    692.7    805.5    918.3             692.7    805.5    918.3
LIC                                    224.5    238.9    257.3         276.9    298.2    321.9    348.2    377.2             321.9    348.2    377.2
REC                                     47.5      88.0    118.1        178.1    228.1    377.7    595.8    822.3             377.7    595.8    822.3
AFC                                     16.0      16.0      16.0         7.2       -         -         -         -              -         -         -
Other Loans                             14.1      76.0      93.8        88.6      83.4      78.2      73.0      67.8          78.2      73.0      67.8
Total Debt                            2221.3   2478.8   2783.7        3108.7   3552.6   4154.3   4704.0   5247.0            3163.7   3688.3   4205.7
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                       350.0    438.1    470.2         470.2    470.2    470.0    470.0    470.0             470.0    470.0    470.0
Unpaid Interest on S.Govt.Loans    187.8    203.4    231.5             231.5    231.5        -         -         -              -         -         -
Total  -  Current Liabilities          537.8    641.5    701.7         701.7    701.7    470.0    470.0    470.0             470.0    470.0    470.0
Consumers Contributions                   22.8      28.9      33.3        51.3      71.3      93.3    117.3    143.3             93.3    117.3    143.3
Total - Liabilities                   2841.0   3210.8   3588.3        3942.2   4325.6   4949.1   5522.8   6149.6            .4957.6   5657.1   6369.6
Debt/Equity Ratio                         97/3      98/2      98/2        97/3    100/        95/5       95/5    95/5           72/28    73/27    73/27
Contingent Liabilities
-  Interest on State Govt.Loans    428.6    508.0    585.0             709.8     903.7    903.7    903.7   903.7                -         -         _
Depreciation                         -        16.1      58.3        107.0     107.0      79.3      16.2       -



INDIA - WEST BENGAI. STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Income Statement for FY 1972 - 1974 Actual,  FY  197979 (Forecast) and FY 1977 - 1979 (Modified Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees, except where otherwise stated)
--------- Actual --------                          ------------------ Forecast ----------------
1972        1973         1974                      1975        1976        1977         1971       1979
1   Total Installed Capacity              MW                            412         421           399                       516         636         756         886        1086
2   Total Effective Capacity               MW                            253         323          256                       339         456         490         578         708
3   Simultaneous Peak Demand               MW                            400         424          467                       510         560         610         750         880
4   Thermal Generation                     GWh                          1445        1610         1796                      1841        2064        2379        3054        3568
5   Diesel Generation                      GMh                            19           8            8                          6           6          10          10          10
6   llydro Generationi                     GWh                            27          55           84                         99          99          99        112         138
7   Energy Purchased                       GWh                           706         745          763                       905         997         741         754         770
8   Total Energy Available                 GWIh                         2197        2418         2651                      2851        3166        32291       3930        4486
9   Losses - Line  Losses                  CWF                          (163)       (209)        (214)                     (268)       (322)       (327)       (426)       (496)
10            - 7tation "'se                GW,                          (117)       (129)        (144)                     (152)        (170)      (196)       (280)       (326)
11    Losses (including station uise as 7. of Energy Available)    12.7                14.0          13.5                      14.7        15.5        16.2        18.0        18.3
12   Sale of Energy                         ClWI                         1917         2080        2293                      2431        2674        2706        3224        3664
13   Average Revenue (paise/kW/h sold)                                     11.86        12.07       12.75                      14.73       16.8        18.5        18.6        18.3
14   Average Revenue (increase  in tariff)  1/                              -             -           -                         -           2.0         2.0         3.9         5.0
Operating Revenue
15         Sales (at scheduled rates)  (inicluding  fuel
surcharge)                                                    225.3        ;55.3       292.5                      358.2       449.1       499.4       599.2       669.9
16    Revenue Tariff Increases                                                     -                  -                         -          10.0        54.1       105.8       183.0
17   Governmnent Subsidy  (Rural Electrification )                          -             -           -                         -            -         32.6        43.0        54.0
18   Other Revenue                                                          7.4           7.2         6.0                       7.5        10.5        11.0        11.5        12.0
19               Total - Operating Revenue                                232.7        262.5       298.5                      365.7       469.6       597.1       759.5       918.9
perating Expenses
20                Fuel                                                     36.5         46.4        64.2                       80.0        96.5       109.9       136.7       157.7
21               Other Operatinig and Maintenance                          70.4         81.6       109.4                      160.4       L26.O 2/  262.9 2/  292.4 2/  338.0 2/
22               Cost of Purchased Powqer                                  48.6         56.7        55.9                       83.6       106.7        90.5        88.7        91.0
23.              Depreciation                                              29.1          29.0       29.6                       31.5        42.0        56.7        72.8        94.8
24                Total - Operating Expense                               184.6    _213.7          259.1                      355.5       471.2       520.0       590.6       681.5
25   Operating Income (before Interest)                                    48.1         48.8        39.4                       10.2         .          77.1       168.9       237.4
26          Less Gross Interest for Year                                   57.6         69.7       101.8                      124.0       156.0       216.8       294.0       379.4
27         Deduct Interest Capitalised                                    (20.3)       (27.0)       (40.9)                    (60.1)      (77.2)    (110.0)    (150.0)    (177,4)
28         Deduct Interest on State Government Loans not paid  (11.3)                     -        (28.2)                     (60.2)       78.8       (38.9)        -
29          Net Interest Chargeable to Revenue                             26.0         42.7        32.7                        3.7           -        67.9       144.0       202.0
30   Net Surplus                                                           22.1           6.1         6.7                       6.5        (1.6)        9.2        24.9        35.4
31          Less Write Off - Intangible Assets                              0.1           0.1         0.2                       -             -
32               Appropriations - General Reserve Funid                     4.2           4.3         4.5                       4.5           -         7.2        10.0        13.9
33               Appropriations - Loan Redemption Fund                       -            -           2.0                       2.0           -         2.0         2.0         2.0
34               Appropriations - Arrears of Interest                        -            '.7                      -                   -                -           -           -
35               Appropriaiolis - Arrears of Depreciation                  14.2 
36    Balance                                                               3.6           -                                  __            (1.A)        -          12.9        19.5
37   Average Rate Base                                                    585.         555.        535                        659.        970.       1342        1806        2490
38   Rate of Return (line 25 as /, of 37)                                   8.2           8.8         7.3                       1.5        (0.1)        5.8         9.3         9.5
39   Operating Ratio  (line 24 as 7. of 19)                                79.           81.         86.                       97.        100.         87.         77.         74.
40   Contingent Liability for Interest on State Government
Loans for the year                                                    11.3         (4.9)        28.2                     60.2         78.8       38.9          -           -
41   Contingent l.iahility for lnterest Accumulated                         11.3          6.4         34.6                     94.8       173.6        212.5      212,5        212.5
42   Consumer per employee                                                                             8.                        8.                                                                X
1/   Revenue increase Assumed   from December 1, 1975   2.0  paise/kWh                                                                                                                             1
April         1977    1.5 paise/kWh                                                                                                                     .
April         19)76   1.5 Paise/kWhl
2/  Inflationary Increased cost of 157.,  157., 107. and 107. per annum in
each of the excessive years FY 1976 to FY 1979.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Condensed Balance Sheets FY 1972-1974 (Actual) and FY 1975 through FY 1979 (Forecast)
(in million of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
Actual                                                         Forecast
March 31:                                               1972           1973           1974               1975          1976            1977          1978         1979
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                                                          847.6         869.2          902.1            1,203.1        1,624.1        2,085.1       2,716.1      3,657.1
Less Depreciation                                                                184.7          213.7         243.3               274.8        (316.8)         (373.5)       (446.3)      (541.1)
Net Fixed Assets in Service                                                      662.9          655.5         658.8               928.3       1,307.3         1,711.6      2,269.8       3,116.0
Work in Progress                                                                      531.0         804.1        1,186.8            1,388.9        1,573.0        2,299.1       2,914.6       3,359.0
Capital Stores                                                                         86.1         154.0          161.9              140.0          130.0           130.0        130.0         130.0
Total - Fixed Assets                                                         1,280.0       1.613.6        2,007,5            2,457.2        3,010.3                      5.314         6,605 0
Current Assets
Stores                                                                            47.5           65.1          60.0                60.0          60.0            70.0         100.0        120.0
Debtors - Electricity                                                             59.3           56.9          63.3                75.0          90.0           120,0         155.0        190.0
Other Debtors & A/cs receivable                                                   14.0           12.5           14.4               12.0           12.0           13.0          14.0         14.0
Loans Advances & other assets                                                    146.6          240.1         322.5               300.0         275.0           275.0         275.0        275.0
Cash & Investments                                                               139.4          109.4          51.1                51.6          44.2            56.0          67.9         89.0
Total - Current Assets                                                         406.8         484.0          511.3              498.6          481.2           534.0        611.9         688.0
Total - Assets                                                                    1,686.8        2,097,6       2,518.8             2_955.8       3.491.5         4,674,7       5,926.3      7,293.0
LIABILITIES
Equity and Reserves
Bond Redemption Fund                                                              28.4           14.3           16.3               18.3          18.3            20.3          22.3         24.3
Employees Provident Fund                                                          38.7           44.5             -                  -              -               -            -
Other Reserves                                                                    29.4           33.7           38.1               42.6          41.0            48.2          71.1         104.5
Consumers & Other Contributions                                                  104.6          132.2         145.4               172.9         199.8           222.8         247.8        274.3
Total - Equity and Reserves                                                    201.1         224.7          199.8              233.8          2T              291.3         341.2        403.1
Long Term Debt
State Government Loans (Initial Assets transferred)                               21.6           21.6           21.6               21.6          21.6            21.6          21.6         21.6
State Government Loans                                                           731.9          737.2         844.3               911.1       1,064.0         1,885.1       2,764.0      3,775.8
Bonds                                                                            161.1          285.2         442.0               596.0         786.7           983.7       1,202.7      1,425.2
REC                                                                               30.3           76.1         113.6               183.6         253.0           332.0         421.0        520.0
LIC                                                                              158.0          222.9          314.1              353.5         395.4           435.6         476.8        521.8
Banks                                                                               -             6.4           13.1               35.9          58.3            72.3          90.9        117.4
Total - Debt                                                                 1,102.9       1,749.4        1,740                              59.            3      4       ,9770         388
Current Liabilities
Amounts Payable & Other Creditors                                                146.9          242.5         287.2               337.2         370.3           370.0         325.0         225.0
Accumulation: of Unpaid Interest on Government Loan                              235.9          281.0         283.1               283.1         283.1           283.1         283.1        283.1
(includes capitalized interest not paid)                                382.8         523.,          570.3              620.3          653.4           653.1         608.1        508,1
Total - Liabilities                                                               1,686.8        2,097.6        2,518.8            2       i      3              4926.3                      7,293.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                                     85/15         79/21          90/10              90/10          91/9            93/7         94/6          94/6
Contingent Liability - Unpaid Interest on
State Government Loans                                       11.3            6.4          34.6               94.8          173.6           212.5        212.5         212.5
94.8  173.6  212.5       212.5        212.5~~~~~~






|  !                                                                                           _            ____   _                             , R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BL, 2833R!
7-. -z  ,                                                        I NDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION-FO'RTH PROJECT
,'  JAML LI .ND  K-SH'Ili       f f                                       REGIONAL   POWER   BOARDS
A      F 12    1--A- PA -*
+               * '   \ '   ~*-  F-1_                                                                    _.AFFOAOF 11:
PHA  AS "I  A                                                                               -_ A-f-      iPNT2.    F         SO-.
iS  \   U T -  R PRA D L  H  '<      t                   (  -i- BA GLDJ             S -H-a,
.0-SF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I' i~~~~~~~~I
,41~ ~~~~~~~\-
( j } . ; .  A                  - Os     L                      -43-, <    a 
I'                                                                                                                        *-       APRADLS;  ~                     XR (< ,  
*a     a>          ;.  v                                .   F,i, ^S2  < < -f                OR5N  
N,
8AY
GO,LDEMARCAT ON  F TIE COANFRN INTO V-F OC>- -. NA
ARAB/ANA  TEE   EO5VFSFF
0 z v c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                                                         RE   i.G [,OFN 
SEA                                                                                                                     R SF __TEOFCL
X  5  (  ..  NDHRA PR4DESh: f ........................ ,5851,   OFS  5,145F
|1"l- NA?ABIAN    IDEA,                               ( I' ESTERN P[CA O N
VNOTTHEAST ERN REG ON F                                                         1
g  \st_J   S  Rpl    L                           .N  K  A                s  25555 SS FFIFS               ;;F






(IRD 71i93
f XC.o .... 81. L 7 f - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  E  P  A    L
1 A
WAP                       ; T9)                                                                                                                            U T T A  R    PR A D  E  S  H                             `
'99AB444 STRAj                                                                                           SUUVfAI MAUUU      HU`   WALIOR  / 
R  A   JA    S   T   H  A   N
KTU'U  OTA SUA<41U P.IHNS
EU,.EJCT4RATUA             .                                                        JAAUDA!PURT   ;>- SCT>.USEA   S9   TIUSE     -
CUITTALELE                   -I    AREA
UDA*PUR            RP S               SAUAR                      ) T                                                                                B
,         o     A        R      A           IAU            S             t/.,,  NAGLAUUA  GNOIAGA D                                                             AUSTUU AO   ,.M R^ 
NIM                                                                                                                    I    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAG~ 
G      US     I   KA t , ;g*WANKANLP g CT@50 J  _A  UUDOE \J--     /                                                                                                 KR .A'-AR  DID
wuj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUOM   HAASD\T   U553
AAN.1 NAGARNAAPDA                                                 A        D              Y       A                        ,            LI       /I 
OAA S              AN A >s  JUTU          UJAIIT                 PHOPA                                                                                      C                              WEST
pls esrrea Ss or zpt Icl  .r ILe KALV A M!RNAGAR /  7  Ro                                                                      AA 5ALPJR                     HIRI                                             \   BENGAL
~~~~~~~~WASJEUT<=.E                         T     K,Snsi 1iURAS  J     AMDASOE'(ARKAA.NNL A SU5 |GOAIAT WRTRNMSIN1POJC
~~~~                                  ,AUSA                   tTU  - 7aSO--:T  g                                                                                                                                       /D
SIKA         -KA                 N~'UHVRA                                        TT,U             .-C       JR
D. O        JA'JUOCUAR  DRRj                                                                                                       MUAT
Tt/HANAVU                             //j                    HAUC JU'lNAR,   ,,EONA EWARDHARpuR  L<'             ;                                                   >    j  y UEXKSTIAN       UOANSRCIKPPSE
PO\\ \NBAR      EROEA I                                                      -AWAG rSN_ *JRNOEUA UTAGOA 
1: @M > -< X >> RATANACRa E;C3ARANJD9   s3   A   N   D   H  R  A  P  R  A  D  E S  H  4 He-seALpOW s5TAT"WT
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALOJG                                A \ KDOJO       f        R0HIJAWAL.j AC ) fSTALT                                    D        N        S.
PORBAN  TPOR                                                                                     SATP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< PIOA  UPSUREA  ATUUURA,I1AUNAR
KE             \         \                    m                                     CAHANG   20vnsVsltE
% \\\\ 'HVAD L AUTI < t      4 Y S 0 RAEN2 DONDA-     SW3AI                                                                               O          TRANSMISSION L                 POEC
1& / PHURSUNGI GOA DEMAN 1 L < N d1 ~~~~~~~~e,  vbstern Regionall Grid Budr
G.ORV,AD  LILA    uDH  'API                                                                       ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JcIUJI J~ 
TOU                                                            KHAPRKHEDA KY                                           POJT   SHWR  vNUIN R
`               JAGA                                                                                                                     E
RA                  p~~~      L       RD.Al     PRA D ES HC
CARNAC    TA,OJU                                                                                                                                                                              - ...- - 4(11 EU TRATJSESIARSSAITAR  DJGSA
a              TAkRAPU RADHANAGATJRI                                                                                                                                       -       TTATASRT,U IE
UAL ETTE                      H-LL,                       H          RA                                                                                          ITEUTNDIA U UT S U 
DTU ARAVI             GO                                                                                            ..AR,~N<` -A-DED* OWE   TRANSEVRUUMISSIOSLNEN                            POJC
BOMBAY'AREA                RO      OG DWA 'MR                                              '.,B                                              W8Y   ~                                      estser   Regio nalG'    Grindo
TOONOUAHETPOJECHSHOWNIN RK



I



GANDAKkk N   E   P   A   L                                         s                 B  H  U  T  A  N    6
A                 ,A                                                        E NGAIGON
e:*,. CiRGNJ L MADHBAN1\' t. LIPiAIKos                                                               S     S      A      M
U T T A  R   P R A D E S H  >t\MUZAFFRUi    /                                             SHSA\DKOA.                                                                     r 
> IANAMASTPUR IAW.11 Z
M.GAL tA5A  yA DN                    _===BARN USA                         '.                         M  E G  H A  L A Y A
8PUGHAL SARAI                                             K B-   AMEAl.
j     S      B*KARSMNA5A  | JA ANAB ARIIIARIUVGAEH   5 2wARH W
.V2,    OEHRIYAEe FARAKKA                                                                                                          d    00Sol
L1 ro RIHAND  X          > ;.\A~~~~33   KODARMA       DEOGLIAR                     HG GNJ                              A      Ln
TIIAI,A                RA81                    i<d                  S                             F>/Io f
LAT I IAR ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ INI
INDRAVATI       GIR    /                                                                 A      H'O'OROPOWSTAT A  PURT I1HN S
RAIG   S    C      ?        X        IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANGPULDKHA,                    KNAARN                          IV 1 A RJC ARENAL
k~~~~~~~~~~~~E KAR  R  AJKHR                       URA   A        '.EPU                                TNDI
MADHYAlESNG PRDS                                                88UANSA                  EAAI  Natr Ge   oaIG   
h ~ ~~~ ~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I1/GNA^                                                      THERMAL POWER STATIONS
$   , a                                                                         ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  0  SUESTATIONS
GOIIKIRA  T ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --          40K TASMSIN IE
Sg   <<iYAGADA- - ___     220KV TRANSMISSION LINES
TO BOLIAGRA                           "e~"                                       f___                                         - ---  122 KV TRANSMISSION LINES
10 300AGHAI .ft . ' ///  SUNA8EDA fv    ~~~~~~~~~~~ I   LAX
\ S;)i /// ZACHKUNLt.j' a ............. .. - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132KV TRANSMISSION LINES (SIC on0/C toTmeol
iJ > G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--ARIVIDI 66  r9    3KV TRANSMISSION LINES
7 ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     TNNAISVE i                        0AIlA   51.1    lO             20                                Tr $        Eastern Regional Grid Boundaryw
gz~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~                                                       I GAUAAEIU0DVR                                  --S0  0   0030      tate  boundaries                           _
, UPPER S1LERUJ             SI=451HACHALAM                                        K,Iuooeteoo                                                                                            _ 
ARA D H R A    P P A D E S H  sVIGAoopompm) H                                                                                        PROJECT-AAInernatlonl uouory



