CIRCULATNG COPY
Cpy TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE CP
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1737-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
December 30, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. lt may not be published,
quoted ot cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 15, 1975)
Rs 1.00        =     Paise 100
US$1.00         =    Rs 8.89
Rs 1.00        =     US$0.1125
Rs 1 million    =    US$112,500
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate.   Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
appraisal report were made at US$1 to Rs 8, which was the
short-term average at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTC ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1737-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
December 30, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 15, 1975)
Rs 1.00              Paise 100
US$1.00              Rs 8.89
Rs 1.00        =     US$0.1125
Rs 1 million    =    US$112,500
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
appraisal report were made at US$1 to Rs 8, which was the
short-term average at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR A POWER TRANSNISS ION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) in an amount equivalent
to US$150 million on standard IDA terms to help finance, a fourth power
transmission project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and FProspects of India"
(691a-IN dated May 1, 1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's nLember countries for
its size and diversity. While India's economic policies and performance
have their shortcomings, the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Gov-
ernment must be recognized; the country is divided intc more than 20 states
with a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's
poverty and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of
external resources averaging in recent years only about US$1 per head per
annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability
of water. A bad monsoon, which is inevitable from time! to time, has a
pervasive influence over the entire economy and wipes cut the results of
years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income has averaged
a modest 4% during the past 25 years, but only about 1i during the last
four years (1971/72-1974/75), which have included two consecutive monsoon
failures -- i.e., an actual decline in per capita terms.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and has all too often fallen short of India's
massive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and
structural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments
in many other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stag-
nation and possibly even decline. Despite these improvements and although
the distribution of income in India is relatively even by comparison with
most developing countries, there has been little impact: upon the living
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to those in the President's
Reports on the Fertilizer Industry Project (P-1723-IN, dated December 2,
1975) and the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project
(P-1733-IN, dated December 16, 1975).



- 2 -
standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Govern-
ment has become increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in
recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
6.        Despite the slow pace of change and despite the undeniable magni-
tude of the problems confronting her, India has the potential in a number
of important fields to mount a development effort which has a reasonable
chance of success in the longer run. In agriculture, as discussed in the
economic report of May 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial
promise for improving the food situation over the next decade are:
a.   Rejuvenation of the Green Revolution in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest
and to a lesser extent in Bihar and West Bengal,
but which has been losing momentum since about
1970. This is the result of deficiencies which
can be corrected -- most importantly seed deteriora-
tion and lagging irrigation development.
b.   Better use of the vast potentials that have been
created by surface irrigation through more expedi-
tious project completion and complementary land
and on-farm improvements to ensure better manage-
ment and higher productivity of water.
c.   Acceleration of groundwater development, especially
in the Eastern regions, which are figuratively de-
scribed as "floating on water," where the untapped
potential is large and where consequently there are
large opportunities for multiple cropping, better
water management and greater crop security.
d.   Promotion of increased production of monsoon rice,
based on improved varieties which as yet have had
only modest success but which are expected, on
the basis of current research, to open the way



- 3 -
to much greater productivity over India's vast
rain-fed rice producing areas during the next
few years.
e.   Pursuit of the promising, although somewhat less
definite, potential for greater productivity in
dryland cultivation and for extensive introduction
of higher-yielding varieties of coarse grain5.
Because of the difficulties likely to be encountered ila the effective devel-
opment of these potentials, their realization is likely to follow uneven time
patterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the case
of the Green Revolution. And, along with administrative concentration and
effectiveness, they will all require provision of the ;upplies and services,
especially fertilizer and power for irrigation, which are essential comple-
ments of the necessary technical and environmental chaniges.
7.        Greater agricultural success would also make an important contribu-
tion to India's perenially difficult balance of paymenl:s situation, which is
frequently aggravated by the need for large food impori:s. From the balance
of payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient fo:c a resumption of
modest growth is sustained export volume growth at considerably higher rates
than have been achieved historically. In view of the composition of Indian
exports, the momentum for such growth would have to be provided primarily
by the rapid expansion of industrial exports which, in addition to easing
the foreign exchange constraint, would act as an imporl:ant stimulant to
industrial growth -- notably absent since the mid-sixti.es. In the field
of energy, too, there is considerable potential in the development of
recently discovered oil resources and in the continued expansion of coal
production.
8.        It is hard, however, to conceive of the timeLy and effective
exploitation of these various potentials unless administrative capabili-
ties, which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control
most economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for
industrial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expedi-
tious incentives, sufficiently attractive -n&, reliable to induce domestic
producers to venture into the competitive pressures of world markets.
Finally, realization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require
a considerable infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments
constraints and to supplement the limited domestic resources available for
development.
9.        While there is thus potential for resuming the interrupted process
of growth, there remains the formidable obstacle of the short-run difficulties
facing India. Last year began with deficient winter rains and a poor spring
harvest, with one of the worst Government wheat procurement experiences on
record, with a prospective balance of payments deficit of US$2.5 billion or
twice as much as in the preceding year, with inflation running at an annual



- 4 -
rate of 30Q% and a fiscal situation seemingly out of hand, and wit  serious
energy and material shortages and little prospect for alleviating them through
imports within the severe constraints of the balance of payments. It was
hardly surprising in this situation that adjustment to iwmediate difficulties
was the prime economic preoccupation. Growth had necessarily to take a second
place to short-run exigencies in the emphasis of economic policy in this
first year of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.
10.       Monetary expansion, which had been running at a rate of 15% in
1973/74, was reduced through tight credit restrictions. The burden of
these restrictions was borne largely by private and Government commercial
activities, without a significant reduction in the rate of increase in net
bank financing of the Government Budget. To this curtailment of credit to
the commercial sector, there was added the deflationary influence arising
from a massive trade deficit; as a result, the rate of monetary expansion
in 1974/75 was reduced to about 6%, or less than half that of the previous
year. This, in combination with some improvements in physical supply,
relieved the upward pressure on prices, and there was even a small price
reduction in the second half of the fiscal year. With continuing tight
monetary policies, prospects are for price stability this year.
11.       The food problem was probably the single most threatening element
on the economic scene last year. A poor harvest and low procurement in the
spring was only the start of agricultural adversities. Next was failure
of the mid-year monsoon in many key agricultural areas and a monsoon (kharif)
crop which fell below that of 1973 by about 5 million tons. The result was
a severe shortage of domestic foodgrains for the public distribution system,
with availabilities only about half of an austere level of requirements. A
real food crisis was averted, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons
of foodgrains during the year ending in March 1975; this was almost twice as
much as the imports of 1973/74. With these imports and with relative empha-
sis on food distribution in the cities rather than the countryside, where
supply conditions were presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threat-
ening food situation was weathered, although not without hunger and priva-
tion for a great many of the rural poor who were unable to afford much of
what food was available.
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for a
marginally lower import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution.
Motor spirits were heavily taxed to reduce consumption by about 20%; factories
and power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible
and supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production,
after years of stagnation, was increased by about 13%, and, after a poor
start, transport managed to keep up with the additional coal in spite of
serious labor troubles on the railways. There was also some improvement in
the operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise
the low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by a more systematic allo-
cation of available power, with special priority for requirements of agri-
cultural irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortage has remained,
nevertheless, a severe constraint on the economies of many regions. Among



- 5 -
other critical shortages, the supply situation eased in the course of the
year, especially for fertilizer, steel and non-ferrous metals. The fer-
tilizer situation was brought into better balance by a combination of
substantial imports and some lag in demand attributable largely to poor
weather and sharply increased prices. Steel and other inetal supplies
also improved during the year, with some increase in doinestic production
in the case of steel and also because of price resistan2e and uncertainty
in a sluggish industrial situation.
13.       Last year's balance of payments turned out to be manageable in
spite of a 47% jump in the import bill. Economies in inport volume helped.
More importantly, there was also an increase of 28% in the value of exports.
The main payments support, however, was an increase of about US$1 billion
in external financing, made up of large drawings on the International Mone-
tary Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid from the India
Consortium including the World Bank Group, oil purchases on credit, a
million tons of wheat on loan from the IJSSR, and additional food aid from
several other countries. With all this, in 1974/75 India had to draw on
its gross reserves (US$1,416 million as of March 31, 1974) by only about
US$50 million, but external debt service requirements in the medium term
were increased, as were obligations to the IMF.
14.       This year (1975/76) the economic situation, though still very
difficult, has started much more favorably than last year. With an excellent
spring (rabi) crop, and a favorable summer monsoon, foodgrain production is
confidently predicted to achieve a record of over 110 million tons. Inflation
continues to be tightly curbed, and the wholesale price index for July 1975
was actually 2.1% lower than a year earlier. With good rains and greatly
increased coal production, the power situation has improved, and the Govern-
ment's expectation is of 20% growth in power generation over the year. However,
although the performance of several public industries has improved consider-
ably, demand, particularly for consumer goods, continues to stagnate, and
the Government's target of 5-6% growth is unlikely to be achieved. Industrial
growth of 3-4% now appears much more likely.
15.       Exports in terms of rupees rose by 15% in the first six months of
1975/76 over the corresponding period of 1974/75. This rise reflects both
the effects of exchange depreciation and significant volume increases.
Despite a continued good export performance, the trade deficit is likely to
be as much as US$1.8 billion, compared with about US$1.7 billion last year,
and hardly any trade deficit at all in 1972/73, which was before India's
terms of trade worsened. Adding to the 1975/76 trade deficit another US$800
million of payments on external obligations, and taking account also of
probable net invisible receipts, this year's overall balance of payments
deficit seems likely to come to about US$2.4 billion, or about the same
level as last year. These enormous deficits persist in any reasonable
calculation of minimum import requirements of fuel, food, fertilizer and
other essentials, for which further compression seems hardly feasible,
especially with the expected pick-up of the economy.



- 6 -
16.       Fortunately, nearly half of this year's prospective deficit
(about US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of
previously committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars
of Consortium aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World Bank
Group sources. Eastern Europe is expected to provide perhaps US$100 mil-
lion, which is down considerably from last year in the absence of further
food assistance from the USSR. India has already drawn US$240 million
from this year's Oil Facility, and can reasonably expect about US$570 mil-
lion from disbursements out of Consortium pledges made in June. This leaves
US$600 million to be financed from other sources, including an inevitable
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves, which stood at US$1,392 million at
August 31, 1975.
17.       To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term pay-
ments outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections, for
the 10 years following 1975/76, illustrating India's debt management prob-
lem. Broadly speaking, the conclusion which emerges is that a modest in-
crease in India's import capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after
allowing for inflation - could be achieved, provided: (a) new aid commit-
ments in real terms (including IMF facilities and the aid provided by oil
producers) remain approximately at 1974/75 levels, (b) India's exports
attain an average volume growth of about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86,
and (c) the bulk of new aid continues to be provided on concessional
terms. Given the above assumptions, the debt service ratio (expressed as
a percentage of export earnings) would rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to
23% in 1979/80 and then decline slowly. India's external public debt out-
standing and disbursed on March 31, 1974, stood at US$10.2 billion.
18.       A considerably improved export performance, which will require
policy measures to improve incentives, is crucial to a successful develop-
ment effort. To the degree that exports fall short of the 8% growth target,
India would not be able to increase her borrowing to meet a larger balance
of payments deficit; the result would be slower growth throughout the eco-
nomy. Against this background, it is encouraging that the Government is
showing an increased determination to exploit India's export potential.
Many measures have been announced that will make exports both more profit-
able and easier to produce. For example, priority is being given to ex-
porters' need for scarce raw materials; exporters will be protected against
rises in the price of steel that occur after the signing of contracts; pro-
duction for export beyond authorized capacity will be permitted automati-
cally; cash assistance rates will be increased to take fixed costs into
account; and import replenishment licenses will be liberalized.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 75 development
credits to India totaling US$1,436 million and US$3,635 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$721 million has been



- 7 -
repaid, and US$1,519 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of November 30,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in Inidia totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$9.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.7 mLllion, US$21.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A sunmmary statement of IFC
operations as of November 30, 1975, is also included ii Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed developmnent, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways.  Family planning, education, water supply development, and urbar
investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural production through the
provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, command
area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed production form
an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers. Lending in
support of infrastructure and industrial investments u.ill focus on energy-
related projects. Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context, and discussions are under way with the Government in an effort
to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate coal
transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an important
feature in recent years, is expected to continue to occupy a prominent place
in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within
the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of



- 8 -
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import com-
ponent of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on M4arch 31, 1974, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 23%, by 1979 it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1974/75, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
25.       India's installed power generating capacity increased at an
average annual rate of 10.3% over the 20-year period from the end of 1950,
while gross electricity generation grew at 11.6%. However, India's power
sector has been characterized by local and intermittent shortages, particularly
in recent years. This situation has been the result of a number of factors,
including delays in the construction of new generation projects, the lateness
or inadequacy of additions to transmission and distribution facilities, and
operating and maintenance problems. During the last two years of the Fourth
Five-Year Plan, ending in March 1974, the power supply situation became
critical, since the above problems were exacerbated by the failure of two
successive monsoons, leading to significantly reduced generation from hydro
plants, and by interruptions in the supply of coal for the power sector,
which reduced thermal generation.
26.       Achievements fell far short of the ambitious targets for
the Fourth Plan. Installed generating capacity reached 18.5 million KW by
the end of 1973/74, compared to a target of 23 million KW. Since then,
power supply has increased considerably, due to better utilization of
existing thermal plant, the commissioning of new capacity, and additional
interconnection of transmission facilities in State and regional grids.
Additions to installed capacity during 1974/75 amounted to 1.7 million KW,
a 9.2% increase over the previous year. While electricity generation in-
creased by only 3.5% during the year, this figure would have been considerably
higher but for the fact that some of the new capacity was commissioned to-
ward the end of the year and the utilization of hydro capacity was sharply
curtailed by lack of rain. Additions to capacity in 1975/76 are expected



- 9 -
to be over 2 million KW; together with improved hydro capacity utilization
due to a good monsoon and further improvements in ther mal capacity utiliza-
tion, this is already leading to a significant improvement in the availabili-
ty of power.
27.       The Draft Fifth Five-Year Plan aims at a generating capacity of
33.0 million KW at the end of 1978/79, almost double l:he capacity attained
by the end of the Fourth Plan. Some shortfall from this ambitious target
is almost inevitable in spite of the achievements in l:he first two years of
the Plan period. Although the power supply situation will remain tight
for the next few years, the gap between supply and dernand is expected to
narrow steadily.
28.       Of the total proposed capital investment for power of Rs 62
billion in the period 1974/75 through 1978/79, the Draft Plan allocated
Rs 16 billion, or 26%, to transmission and distribution, with emphasis on
the further integration of the State systems into five Regional Grid Systems.
Although India's transmission network is extensive, the construction pro-
gram for the expansion of these facilities has lagged considerably, and
there is cause for concern that transmission will have difficulty keeping
pace with the development of generating capacity.
29.       The Indian power sector is institutionally complex because elec-
tricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction of the Central Govern-
ment and the State Governments, according to the Consi:itution and to the
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. The Act assigned to State Electricity Boards
(SEBs) responsibility for the development of power generation, transmission
and distribution within each State, leaving the Center with a vaguely defined
responsibility for planning and coordination. This was workable when power
consumption was very low and confined to a few urban centers, but the need
for improved planning of integrated power development has become increasingly
obvious in recent years.
30.       Bringing about effective change in the operation of the power
sector is not proving easy, because the States are understandably reluctant
to relinquish some of their authority to the Center. Nevertheless, a be-
ginning has now been made with the necessary institutional reforms. The
Act of 1948 provided for a Central Electricity Authority (CEA) which was
to be responsible for formulating a national power development policy and
for coordinahing the activities of the various agencies at the Central
level influencing resource allocations and development priorities for the
power sector. Although it was formally created in 1950, the CEA has not,
for the most part, been operational. However, it is tnow in the process of
being reactivated. The former Central Water and Power Commission has been
split; the irrigation function is now carried out within the Ministry of
Agriculture, and the power function has been undertaken by the CEA, which
serves in an advisory capacity to the Ministry of Energy. Four members have
been appointed. Appointment of a Chairman is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Sections 4.07 and 6.01 of Development Credit Agree-
ment). The Institute of Management at Abmedabad has been appointed to help



- 10 -
formulate the structure of the new organization, particularly at the sub-
ordinate staff levels. The extent to which the CEA will be able to ensure
effective implementation of its recommendations by State authorities remains
to be seen, but its reactivation represents an important step toward an
integrated national approach to the power sector.
31.       Apart from these institutional reforms, greater authority is
also expected to accrue to the Center under plans to give a major place
in future electric power development to large projects under Central juris-
diction, with the power generated to be sold to the States. This should
go a long way toward offsetting State supply deficiencies and providing a
source of generation for inter-State transfers according to regional require-
ments.
32.       The Bank Group has been providing assistance for power develop-
ment in India since 1950, and has made fourteen loans and credits total-
ling US$475.5 million for the sector. Prior to 1965, this assistance was
focussed on the financing of generation projects; subsequently, the focus
has been on the strengthening of high-voltage transmission facilities and,
more recently, has included rural electrification. Apart from the Rural
Electrification project (Credit 572-IN), which was signed in July 1975,
the two projects now under implementation (Power Transmission II and III,
Credit 242-IN of 1971 and Credit 377-IN of 1973) got off to a slow start
due to delays in the development of satisfactory bidding documents and in
the evaluation of bids; moreover, procurement under Credit 377-IN came
to a virtual halt while the Government considered ways in which to deal
with the substantial increases in the cost of various materials, especially
copper, required for the manufacture of equipment and in the cost of the
equipment itself (see para. 35).  As a result of these considerations, be-
cause of the very long lead times (18-24 months) required for delivery of
most power equipment, and because the contracts do not require down payments,
only some US$31.6 million, or 20% of the combined credit amount of US$160
million, had been disbursed as of November 30, 1975. However, all of the
funds have now been committed in orders placed, and disbursement is expected
to proceed as rapidly as the timing of deliveries permits. Most, if not
all, of the funds are expected to be disbursed by the Closing Dates of
March 31, 1977, and September 30, 1977, respectively. (The original Closing
Date of Credit 242-IN was September 30, 1975, and this has been extended once.)
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited
India in May 1974 and June 1975. A report entitled "Appraisal of Fourth
Power Transmission Project" (No. 913a-IN, dated December 23, 1975) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November, 1975. The Government of India was represented by
Mr. V.N. Rajagopalan of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. R.C. Bhargava of the
Ministry of Energy and Mr. S.S. Ilurthy of the Central Electricity Authority.
Attached as Annex III is a credit and project summary.



Proj ect Description
34.       The major part of the project (Part A) forms part of a US$509
million program of investment in high-voltage power transmission during
the period 1976/77 - 1978/79 by the four beneficiary State Electricity
Boards (those of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal) and load de-
spatch facilities being constructed by the Eastern and Western Regional
Electricity Boards. This component would consist of about 2,800 circuit km
of 220 kv overhead transmission lines, some of which are designed for later
conversion to 400 kv operation; about 15 km of 220 lcv and 132 kv underground
cables; and equipment to increase the aggregate capacity of 30 substations
by about 2,700 MVA. Also included are capacitors or synchronous condensors
to help improve system operations, and power line carrier communication and
telemetering equipment to further improve existing communication and load
despatch facilities in the States' systems. All fonr of the SEBs involved
also participated in the first and second power transmission projects (Loan
416-IN and Credit 242-IN). The detailed planning and design for the trans-
mission lines have been undertaken by the technical staff of the four bene-
ficiary SEBs, which have demonstrated their competence in this area; they
have been assisted as necessary by the CEA. The construction work would be
carried out by the SEBs' construction departments or by local contractors,
both of whom have proved themselves able to complete such work efficiently.
35.       Another part of the proposed project (Parl: B), for which US$30 million
of the credit would be allocated would meet the cosi: increases incurred under
the Third Power Transmission Project (Credit 377-IN of May 9, 1973). Credit
377-IN helped to finance similar transmission invesltments by eleven other
beneficiaries: the SEBs of Assam, Karnataka, KeralaL, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa
and Tamil Nadu; the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking; the Beas Construction
Board; the Southern and Northern Regional Electricil:y Boards; and the Tata
Power Company, a private company in Bombay. Although there have been no
substantial changes in the scope of that project, which was appraised in
July 1972, the cost of equipment and materials, which was estimated at US$85
million at the time of appraisal, has since risen to about US$131 million
(including 15% to cover escalation provisions in the contracts) as a result
of increases in the prices of both raw materials for power equipment and
finished equipment. Contracts valued at a total of US$109 million (including
provision for escalation) had been placed as of the end of September, and
tenders totalling another US$22 million or so were pending.
36.       The proposal to provide supplementary financing to complete
the schemes included under Credit 377-IN must be viewed in the context
of India's success in curbing inflation and coping with a gigantic
trade deficit while providing increased budgetary and foreign exchange
resources for essential investments in key sectors. Inflation was reduced
from a peak annual rate of 32% in September 1974 to an annual rate of only
7% in March 1975 by the use of tighter fiscal and monetary policies, by direct
action on incomes, by the importation of adequate volumes of food and by a
good spring harvest. By July 1975 the wholesale price index was 2.1% be-
low the level of a year earlier. Despite the recent slowdown of inflation,
the cost of investment programs has increased substantially in recent years.



- 12 -
The power sector is no exception. The Draft Fifth Plan, formulated in 1974,
had proposed an investment program of Rs 62 billion during the Plan period,
i.e. 11.6% of total Plan outlay. The 1975/76 Annual Plan calls for an
investment of Rs 11 billion in the power sector. In real terms, this repre-
sents a reduction of 41% from the annual outlay implicit in the Draft Fifth
Plan. Despite the reduction in real terms, the share of the power sector
in the 1975/76 Annual Plan is larger than in the Draft Fifth Plan -- 18.4%
as compared with 11.6%. Hence, while the priority of investment in power
has clearly gone up in the wake of the energy crisis, even this has not
prevented some decline of real investment levels.
37.       It is against this background that the provision of some addi-
tional financing for the schemes included under Credit 377-IN is justified.
The US$30 million included in the proposed credit constitutes 65% of the
US$46 million cost increase for equipment being financed under Credit 377-IN
on the basis of international competitive bidding; the Government has agreed
to provide the remainder. The amount involved is quite significant in view
of the budgetary impact of the contributions already being made by both the
Central Government and the State Governments to meet the increased cost of
the power program in these States and elsewhere in India.
38.       The last component of the project (Part C) would support regional
and national system planning studies designed to produce a long-term plan
for power development in India. The preparation of a National Plan for Power
Development is one of the principal functions of the CEA. To help establish
the necessary expertise within the CEA to prepare and regularly update such
a plan, the proposed credit would finance the costs of any consultants
considered necessary by the CEA and acceptable to IDA (Section 3.05 of
Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Condition of the SEBs
39.       Since SEBs were first established about 15-20 years ago, their
finances have not been satisfactory, due in part to unduly low tariffs and
constraints imposed by the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. A further con-
tributing factor is the extent of financial responsibility assumed by SEBs
for implementation and operation of the Center and State Government policy
of rural electrification, aimed at increasing food production and generally
improving living conditions in rural areas. Financial losses from the
initial phases of rural electrification operations are virtually inevitable
in view of the low load factor of agricultural pumping, the low load density
of the system and the large seasonal fluctuation in demand.
40.       In 1964, before the financial impact of rural electrification
became significant, a Government committee set up to examine the financial
workings of SEBs made various proposals for improving their financial posi-
tion, including the gradual attainment of a 9-1/2% rate of return. The
Bank identified itself with this recommendation and, in connection with
Loan 416-IN, obtained undertakings that the beneficiaries would attain
this rate of return by agreedl target dates. For Maharashtra and Gujarat



- 13 -
the target date was 1973/74, and for Bihar and West Bergal it was 1974/75.
However, because of the impact of rural electrificatiort operations, low
tariffs, rapid increases in operating costs, poor monsoon rains, and delays
in the completion of projects, these targets were not met. With the recent
or proposed implementation of initial tariff increases, together wV.th State
subsidies to cover losses from rural electrification operations, both Gujarat
and Maharashtra are expected to achieve a 9-1/2% rate of return by 1976/77,
Bihar by 1977/78, and West Bengal by 1978/79. However, the rate of return
has hitherto been calculated on the historic costs of assets and not on cur-
rent values; this basis has become increasingly unsatisfactory as a result of
recent rates of inflation. Thus, even attainment of a 9-1/2% rate of return
on a non-adjusted asset base represents only a first sl:ep toward being able
to finance a reasonable proportion of new investment from internally generated
funds. The proposed amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act (see para. 41)
and the pricing studies to be carried out by beneficiary SEBs (see para. 42)
should pave the way for a more satisfactory longer-tern solution.
41.       A number of agreements have been reached in am effort to increase
the earnings of SEBs. The Government has agreed to talce steps to strengthen
the machinery for coordinated power planning and to improve the financial
operations of the sector (Section 4.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
These steps are expected to include enactment of a number of agreed amendments
to the Electricity (Supply) Act, which would make SEB inanagements responsible
for servicing their debt and for overall financial planning and would provide
a basis for improving SEB accounting practices, including in particular a
provision which will enable SEBs to revalue fixed assets on a current basis.
These amendments would also enlarge the scope and functions of the CEA and
would provide the necessary statutory authority to the centrally-owned gene-
rating companies (see paras 30 and 31 above). In addition, the CEA will submit,
by March 31, 1977, annual financial forecasts for all of India's SEBs through
1978/79, the period covered by the project (Section 4.32 of Development Credit
Agreement). These would incorporate provision for realistic debt service, as
required by the amended provisions of the Act, State subsidies to cover rural
electrification losses, and tariff increases necessary to achieve the 9-1/2%
rate of return target required by previous Development Credit Agreements.
42.       Each beneficiary SEB under Part A of the Project would provide
to GOI by March 31, 1976, an undertaking, satisfactory to the Association,
outlining the manner in which its respective part of the project would be
executed (Section 3.02 of Development Credit Agreement). Each SEB and its
State Government would also agree by March 31, 1976, that the SEB would
achieve and maintain specified rates of return according to an agreed schedule
under which all beneficiaries would achieve a 9-1/2% return by FY1979 (Section
4.03 of Development Credit Agreement). Each SEB would agree to carry out a
pricing study, in consultation with the CEA, based on the marginal cost
principles established in the Bank's recent study of electricity tariffs
in Andhra Pradesh and to report on its findings by March 31, 1977 (Section
4.04 of Development Credit Agreement). Each State Government would agree
that it would provide its SEB with an annual subsidy with effect from
April 1, 1976, to the extent needed to meet fully its losses on rural
electrification operations or to achieve a 9-1/2% rate of return through



- 14 -
cross-subsidization, whichever is less; and that it would dispose of the
SEB's contingent liabilities for interest on State Government loans advanced
as of March 31, 1976 (Section 4.06 of Development Credit Agreement). In
addition, the Bihar State Government and SEB would agree by March 31, 1976
to adjust the fuel surcharge to recover the full increase in fuel costs and
to implement the revised surcharge by April 1, 1976 (Section 4.05 of Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Finally, the CEA would prepare, by March 31,
1977, guidelines satisfactory to IDA for the capitalization of interest
during construction (Section 4.08 of Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$207.3 million --
US$158.8 million for Part A, US$45.8 million for Part B and US$2.7 million
for Part C -- including US$80.3 million in foreign exchange. US$148 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the proposed credit (US$118 million for the new
transmission component and US$30 million for additional financing under
Credit 377-IN) would be made available by GOI as part of Central grant and
loan assistance provided to State Governments for development purposes.
These funds would be on-lent by State Governments to beneficiary SEBs on
terms and conditions prevailing at the time for loans to public utilities.
The remainder of the funds required by these SEBs for their transmission
investment programs would be made available through additional loans by
the State Governments, borrowings from institutional sources and internal
cash generation. US$2 million of the proposed credit would be provided to
the CEA to help meet the cost of the system planning studies; the balance
of roughly US$0.7 million required for the studies would be provided by the
Central Government.
44.       The principal equipment items required for Part A of the project
are conductors and cables (US$23 million), towers (US$18 million), load
despatch and communication equipment (US$22 million), transformers (US$10
million), capacitors, insulators and switchgear (US$19 million), and other
equipment (US$1 million). These values exclude physical contingencies
averaging about 5%. A price contingency of US$20 million, about 19.6% of
the value of the equipment, would be unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of
the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost of the above items, all of which would be
procured through international competitive bidding. Indian suppliers competing
under international competitive bidding would be granted a preference margin
of 15% or the current rate of import duty, whichever is less. Based on
procurement experience with previous Credits, it is estimated that all of
the tower contracts, about 90% of the contracts for conductors, groundwire,
insulators and hardware, and about 80% of the other internationally bid
contracts (except for capacitors and high-voltage underground cables, which
would most likely be imported) would be won by Indian bidders. In that
case, and taking into account the estimated indirect foreign exchange content
of Indian-made equipment, the credit would involve local currency financing of



- 15 -
about US$70 million. Of course, this is only a rough estimate and, in
practice, the proportion of contracts won by foreign bidders could be more
or less.
46.       In the interests of avoiding delays in procurement, it has been
agreed that no withdrawals from the credit will be made in respect of any
equipment for which a contract has not been awarded within 18 months of credit
signing or for which an invitation to bid has not been. issued within 12 months
of signing (para 3(b) of Schedule 1 to Development Credit Agreement).     GOI
has also given assurances that import licenses will be issued promptly for all
imported equipment to be financed under the credit and no further reviews
will be made by any of its agencies (Section 2.03(b) cf Development Credit
Agreement).
Justification
47.       The basic justification for the proposed investment in transmis-
sion facilities is to permit better utilization of existing generating
capacity and to complement investment in new generation plant. The least-
cost development of a given power supply capacity requires an investment
program which is balanced between generation, transmis,sion and distribution,
to realize economies of scale in meeting loads and providing reserve ca-
pacity. The proposed investment would support the development of a system
which will maximize the utilization of existing and new capacity and mini-
mize the uncertainties and interruptions of power supply by providing flexi-
bility in power despatch according to priority load demands. It is of course
not possible to isolate the benefits of the particular transmission sub-
projects under consideration here from those of the transmission and genera-
tion improvements underway as a whole in each of the State systems involved.
It can only be emphasized, against the background of heavy losses to the
economy from power shortages in the last few years, that the benefits in
production from increased and more reliable power supplies will be very high.
Beyond this, and in the longer run, the proposed project will also contribute
significantly to the growth of inter-State and inter-regional transmission
systems. Only with the eventual development of an adequate, integrated
generation and transmission system will it be possible for India to overcome
fully the constraint of power supply shortages which has plagued industrial
and agricultural development for the past several years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolu-
tion approving the proposed development credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 1 6 -
49.       Appointment of a Chairman of the CFA is a special condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (para 30 above). Other features of the
draft agreement of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 38, 41,
42 and 46 of this report. Receipt of the necessary undertakings and assur-
ances from SEBs, State Governments and the CEA would be a condition of
disbursement of each beneficiary's share of the credit (para 3 of Schedule 1
to Development Credit Agreement).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: J. Burke Knapp



ODLESRT DaTa- MIA0t
AMUA                                                 POPUIATION                                   LES)ITX
3,280,183                                              5-77.0 u7i'ion (sid-ipl3)                         SO     Per os2of asebl   land
SOCIAL INDIATORS
India                    ThWnria    p   .i  "
GNP PER CAPITA U8$ (ATLAS BASIS) /I1A90 ~O                                                                       220        2,600/
D24DGRAPHIC
MT  30lWrth r.te (p.r  thouaesd)                                                                  La /8/84  tde.  L5 /d,    13.9 I
Crude death rats (par thouand)                                   13             16 /j            19pId.        12 /do      1270
Infant eartality rota (par thousand live births)                139        120Th   L   d.       *.                         17.5 L
Lifa  xp.otanoy at birth (years)                                 115018587
Groan reroduction itaL?                                         2.7 ZbA,j      2.9              3.2           3.3           1.3
Populatio  grwt    rae                                          2.3      _     2.3              2.0     ~     3.0/          0.5j
Psopalstion g-oth rats - urbao                                    3/hk.       k                    523           0/O5~
ageatrcio.    (p.aront)
0T                                                             I             1    f11' 43 4                              3.   /
15-6L                                                          56             57                3W           51          67    a
65 and ever                                                                                      37W-          3/,       13.6/
Age dosdency rtio /4                                                             0.9 0  i            7F        0.9o0.6
Econosicdepond-nr    rotto.j                                     1.0            1 ;7     ~       1.5 7W        1.5          0.8 in
Urban population as percent of total                             18             20 /e.k          18aA          32 /.         78 /_.0
Fanily planning:   N of anosptars ronolative (thouo.          1,   00  k                        1719
No  of users CR of earne.d awen3)           1.               .                .               8
Total lbor foros (thoasanAd.)                               189,000 /8     221,000 I4,n      10,100 /c     13,200 /      25,700 /c
Persantgag  asployad to egrioatora                             73 /8          71  &d..         62 7W-        5637 
Peroantage unsiployed                                         ..3                   se          27-,          7           3.6  n
Pecn fnational moose rescind by highest 5%                  27 ~r          25 zx..                       25L/,          S/.
Peon  fntonal jn oos  renaeild by highest 20%            52  r         53 4E,.         l.5                c.r       3
Percen.t of_ntional muss renaired by lowest 20%g                  i5 7W                          .1b6                              t
Percen.t ofnational incoso received hy lowest 40%                IL/j           13 z   .                       12r/,~        19   r
OISMIIBTION tOP LOR  OIRRSRW
% osned hy m.1lleet 10% of none,a...
MEALTH AND NUTRITION
P-polaatlo  P,per idyiia                                      5,800          4,800           27,'3hz I      1I,21k           1t
Population per nur sing person                                5,11 O         5,1-10           8,320  W      192L.           31Z.
Population per hospital bed                   ~~~~~~  ~     ~~2,600 L  1,620 /L 1,15c 77      850 /Lj       110   &
Per capita coloriesoupply as % of rsqulee-ts /56                 95             93               93            85           125
Per naita protein supply, total (gras    per daJ/                55             53               53            15            90
Of hioh, anolo  an     pus19 /8                                              16/Zoh          11 /d         225
Deat rate 1-h years /7                                                                                          7.7_
EDUCATION
Adju.sted /8 primary school snrollssat retio                     12             79 /871                      112 /~        110
Adjusted    seonrary school oenrlleeot ratio                     10             S    a           1.2          iS             1 7
lease of sohnling presided, first and asoond level                212121                                                    13 7
Vonot ional enrollseet as 9 of sac  school enro11at               1              6/n             28            10ado          5
Adult Utterocy seta %                                            21/ggA         36           5~ 6/csi          72d/jj        97 
HOUSINGI
No. of pereons pe- rn    (urban)                        2.6 /ISlek     2.8 Ic.aj.ak     ...                          i
Per cent of eccpied ants withont piped water                    ..             .                ..66 /4,5
A.-ess to electricity (aa % of total popuation)                 .               ..                              3a
Per cent of foral population ceonseted to electricity           ...                              .6 /j
CONSUMEPTION
E-1ro W-tv... Per 1000 Population                                 5             23 A   ~        lil            16/         672 /
PaSseng-r   ar per lD population                                0.8              1/                /               a        231' 
Electric pose   cosoa.ptiou (bWh p.c.)                           46            1087              237          25     17     5
Nesrint eooccptinn p.c. kg per year                          0.2            c2i7L715
0.2    O.L             ~~0.2           17LW.
Moire   Figuree refer eIther to the latest periodo or t                nnn     favronna         aprtr,        oywih.        e
ihe latest yore.Latest lerids refer in principle toitrbtiob                    age and san of ntional popuLaios
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in pri,,-         A    Protein standards (reovirmonte) for all neunirts As setab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               lhoSd by USDA   connoin Rnea,rch Sorvice provide for a abniueo
a1  The Psr Capita GisP netionir taat aarht prinv     for             all-ownos of 60 gram   of total pr,otein par day, anol 20 gross of
Yearn cther than 1960,calculotsd by tha oasnoo,aroion             anial an   pulse protein, of whic~h 10 grass shoald h.esaimal
iechnlque as ihs 1972 World Dank Atlas.                           protein.  Those tsO.anads ar   sssuhat Lowe than tknas of 75
12 Average outer of daughters per noso     of reproductive            grass of total protein and 23 gr,    af animal protein as an
oge.                                                              aveag   for tha world, Propose d I,y PAO to the Third World Pond
Z)_ hilpulotice ge-th reten nre for the decu.d.o coding in            Surey.
1960 and 1970                                                 /   Sees etudia  have suggested that ordod death rates of thildrem
/)  R Stin of pepula-tton under 15 end 65 ma oeer to pupua-           age  1 through I na   he nssd as , first approniattas    do:an sf
tion of ags 1-6L for ago dopedacy ratio and to labor              salnatrition.
fcr  oe f ogs15-61 for ec. oondi   dependency ntioe.          /8  Paerostage snrolled of sorrfa     Lponlg population of school age
F ADOeeec        etandardo represent physi.loghoal re-              as defiteed for each seatry.
quiraaaato for sa nrj..ativity and health, taking
/a  '1972;    /b  Estitnet  annual.. avege for 1963-61 base d on remalts of the national sample sun, ey;     /EIn  l';    Zd gatinats;
7 1965-70;    /f  1973;   /5   Estimated annua   avenge for 1951-61 baesd ono analysIs of decennial census;      /k   1951-60;
45   Sateu Is etiante based no births obtained by application of 5ssvoree survial01 method to re,ulta of 1951 end 1961
c-suas;     /   1960-72;    /k  For the definition of urban se    l)-aONSajr6             7hfj    p.15,      a.    otipati,
rogeny capitals and    thar places. with carbon charanteristicge,    "= ecuigpc 'sth                      deinL      '   -ito  o  uba
oneIN DsnhcYerok93.P. 127;                   /n   Area clamsified ae urban for local governmet purp..s, i.e. county
boroughe, municial boroughs end  rban districts;  A8  1961;  /5  Iancldss all indiridol   who perticipate in any
type cf ecoansc activity)     /8   AID ostiants cf labor foros in age group 15-59.     18   repor-t gir.sa  figure of 180.1
million based on the 1971 population cesu.       The differences is due to changes in the defl,tiitc    ofa work.r.    In the
1971 censua, person   were cla.s.fMad only non the boots of their easS, acti.Atte.     Thie led I,0 the exclusIon of aev-r1
categortee, such as hous..wle-s;        H . Suehl-d.;  /a  1967-68;    11t  1968;   /j  1962;    4r  Pereonl to g-verenns
services only;    /5  1957;   /5 1A9       /j& Including rural hospitals;     La   Goverment hee7pltol establisheenia only;
/   1960-62;  /ab   1969-70;  Z/5 _Estitet which includes overage studonte;        /ad   1967;   /wj   NcL inoluding ceoational
ehcrt-tera courses     /3f  1965;    /8g  1961,    /-h  PcPulstion of 10 yeread ove       based n. oti proant s..apls data
of 1971;    /4   15 yamr end ever;     Z%j Dota refer to housoh.lds;      /     Data based no naciple tabulation of census
renrs  /3  Date refer to housabo1ds in conentional dusilisga;       /     ImPorts only;   Inn   Daogtterrdapplicacto
Dice and population sake Indo....ia a rels-ont referono coutry, although it is in the per apiti income group balna
India.
cc  he lofted Klngdco has ben selected bananen of the important role of p.bltc e-t-r ensp.sead the highly
dov-loped syotem of soial nelfare.
88, July 2;, 19?S



UCO)OMIC D]VIIDhItY DATA
GNP PEi CAPITA IN 1972 4 US $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73                                   AINJAL RATE OF GROrTE C%, constant prices)
US S Bln.      j                    191/62-1965/66    1969/66-1969/70   1970/71-1972/73
GNP at Market Prices                60.0      100.0                        3.1               4.3               1.0
Gross Domestic Investment           10.4       17.2
Gross National Saving                9.8       16.2
Current Account Balance            -0.6         1.0
Resource Gap                        -Q.3       -0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
-Value Added (at factor cost)        Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US T Bin.              %           Min.     +          US 9  I of National Averan
Agriculture                         23.1                46.6         130.0  72.1          178            65
Industry                            10.1                20.4          20.2  11.2          500           182
Services                                                33.0          30.2  16.7          543           198
Total/average                       49.               100.0         180.4 10O.O0         275           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                     General Government                       Central Government
(Re. Bln)         % of GDP                 (Rs. Bln% of GDP
1973/74      1973/74  1971/72-1973 74      1973/74      1973/f74  1971/72-1973/74
Current Receipts                88.11        15.2         15.8            50-59         8.7           9.2
Current Expenditures            88,89        15.3         16.0            49.11         8.4           9.1
Current Surplus/Deficit        -0.78         -0.1         -0.2              1.48       0.3            0.1
Capital Expenditures ./         27.70         4.8          5.2             20.99        3.6           3.9
External Assistance (net)        3.93         0.7          0.8              3.93        0.7           0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1956      1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73    i973/74  September 1973  September 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Q.uasi Mloney             61.4      93.3     105.7     122.4     l15.2      169.4       155.1         177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector        40.8      52.4      56.9      69.0      82,5       93.5        91.2         102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector       28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4       76.o      85.6        79.3          90.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                   larch 1974      Marcl 1975
Money and Quasi Money as i of GDP   24.0      23.6      24.3      26.3       27.9      26.8
Wrholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                 131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.1      254.0      283.6          308.5
Annual percentage chan:ges in:
'Nholesale Price Index               7.7       3.8       5.5       4.0        9.9      22.7                       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector        12.9       1.5       8.6      21.3      19.6       13.3                      1l    e/
Bank Credit to Private Sector       12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6       18.0      12.6                      13.5  /
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
b/ Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
B All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
i  Credit to Government, as on March 21, 1975.
f   Credit to Commercial Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1971/72   1972/73   1774a      i2I1        M MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971/72-19U475)
( Million   US      )                                      US $Mn.
Exports of Goods                  2,160     2,558     3,187     4z,094      Jute Manufacturers         336         11
Imports of Goods                 -2,572    -2,682    -3,952     5,811       Tea                         217         7
Trade Balance                    - 412     - 124     -  765    -1,717       Cotton Textiles             170         6
13FS (net)                       -   48    - 146       n.a.         79      Iron Ore                    164         6
Engineering Goods          251         8
Resource Gap                     - 460     - 270       n.a.    -1 638       Others                    1.873        62
Total                    3,011       1 00
Interest Payments (net)          -  230    - 237       n.a.      n.a.
Other Factor Payments (net)      -    7    -     8     n.a.      n.a.
Net Transfers                       358    -   50      n.a.      n.a.
Balance on Current Account        - 339     - 565      n.a.      n.a.       EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 19714
Official Aid                                                                                                    us$ Mln.
Disbursements                 1,203       955     1,249h/   1,750W      Repayable in foreign currency        11,612
Amortization                   -385      -408      -692-     -746       Repayable through export of goods       784
Transactions with IMF                -         -         75       515       Total Outstanding and Disbursed      12,396
All Other Items                    -254        52       239        67
Increase in Reserves C-)           -225       -34      -106        42       DEBT SEEVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75      18.0 percent
Gross Reserves (end year)         1,277     1,311     1,417     1,379
Net Reserves (end year)           1,277     1,311     1,342       759
lIBRD/IDA LEND)ING. OCT. 30. 1975  (US$ Min.)
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                                                                       I~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  IDA
Imports                             262       265       719     1,375
of which: Petroleum               262       265       719     1 ,375      Outstanding and Disbursed   443     2,613
lJndisbirsed                292     1,267
Exports                              15        41        20      n.a.       Outstanding including        735    3,880
of which: Petroleum                 9        37        16      n.a.         Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANG#/
Prior to mid-December 1971: US$ 1.00 - Rs 7.5                               After knd June 1972 : Floating Hate
Rs  1.00 -'US; 0.133333
Spot Rate Dec. 15, 19?5:
"id-lecember 1971 to        1US$ 1.00 - Rs 7.27927                                 approx. US$ 1.00 - Rs 8.296
end June 1972              Rs  1.00 - US$0.137376                                approx. Rs  1.00 = US$0.1205
d/ Estimated.
/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service.
/   Net of IMf credit use as of end March 1975.
j/  Amortization and interest payments ($ 750 million) as a percentage
of merchandise exports.
k/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates
and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front cover
of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEFENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of ilovenber 30. 1975)
Loan or                                                                    us$ Milliorn
Credit No.    Year    Borrower               Purpose                   (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loams/                                                           1 ,032.5
34 Credits fully disbursed                                                    1,841 .9
614-IN         1969     India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0       -        7,2
176-IN        1970     India     Kadana Irrigation                      -        35.0     C.,
203-IN         1970     India    Punjab Agricultural Credit             -         27-5    24.6
226-IN        1971      India    Andhra Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -        24.4      )1.o
242-IN         1971     India    Power Transmission II                  -         75.0   46.3
249-IN         1971     India    Haryana Agricultural Credit                      25.0     9.G.
250-IN        1971      India    Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                    -        35.0     10.0
264-IN         1971     India    Cochin II Fertilizer                   -        20.0      4.0
267-IN        1971      India    Wheat Storage                          -          5.0     3.3
268-IN         1971     India    Pochampad Irrigation                   -         39.0     2.5
789-IN        1971      ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0       -       5.2
278-IN         1972     India    Mysore Agricultural Credit             -        40.0     13.9
279-IN         1972     India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion         -         10.0     1.G
293-IN         1972     India    Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                   -         30.0     7.9
294-IN         1972     India    Bihar Agricultural Markets             -         14.0   13.2
312-IN        1972      India    Population                             -        21.2    15.5
342-IN         1972     India    Education                              -         12.0    11.
356-IN        1972      India    IDBI                                   -        25.0     23.0
357-IN        1973      India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion            -        58.0    10.2
377-IN        1973      India    Power Transmission III                 -        85.0     32.2
378-IN        1973      India    Mysore Agricultural Markets            -         8.o      8.0
902-IN         1973     ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0       -       '3.2
390-IN        1973      India    Bombay Water Supply                    -        55.0     51.3
391-IN         1973     India    Madhya Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -         33.0    i6.8
392-IN        1973      India    Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.                 -         38.0    26.1
403-IN         1973     India    Telecommunications V                   -         80.0    57.3
427-IN         1973     India    Calcutta Urban Development             -         35-0    24.7
440-IN         1973     India    Bihar Agricultural Credit              -         32.0    24.d
456-im         1974     India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -         13.0    13.0
481-IN         1974     India    Trombay IV                             -        50.0     56.5
1011-IN         1974     India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0       -      55.6
482-IN         1974     India    Karnataka Dairy                        -         30.0    30.0
502-IN         1974     India    Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -        83.0     62.7
520-IN         1974     India    Sindri Fertilizer                      -        91.0     86.o
521-IN         1974     India    Rajasthan Dairy                        -         27.7    27.7
522-IN         1974     India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -         16.4    16.4
526-IN        1975      India    Drought Prone Areas                    -        35.0     35.0
1079-IN        1975     India     IFFCO Fertilizer                     109.0       -      108.8
528-IN         1975     India    Industrial Imports X                   -        200.0    29.4
1097-IN        1975      India    Industry DFC XI                      100.0       -       99.2
532-IN         1975     India    Godavari Barrage Irrigation            -         45-0    44.5
540-IN         1975     India    ARC Credit                             -         75.0    72.0
541-IN         1975     India    West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project          -         34.0    34.0
562-IN         1975     India    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD           -        24.0     25.0
572-IN         1975     India    Rural Electrification                  -         57.0    57.0
582-IN         1975     India    aailwaye AIII                          -        110.0   107.2
585-TIN       1975     Tndia     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                      40.0*    LO.0
Total                                                                1 .436.5  3,635.1
of which has been repaid                                          706.1     1
Total now outstanding                                                  701      16.
Amount sold                        111.5                               701.3   3,620
of which has been repaid      111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         735.2  3,620.4
Total undisbursed (including*)                                         288.2   1,231.2  1,519.5
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                         Loan       Equity       Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5         -           1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9         -           0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4.         -           1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2         -           0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7         0.3          1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8         0.4          1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.0         12.8
1964      Lakshmi MIachine Works Ltd.                 1.(l       0.3          1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.(l        0.1          1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9         11.5
1969-7)   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8         18.9
TOTAL                                43.0        8.8         51.8
Less:     Sold                             6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                           9.I         -           9.6
Cancelled                        6.2        0.7          6.9
Now Held                        21.2        6.5         27.7
Undisbursed                      9.5         -           9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,519.4 million as of November 30, 1975, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20. 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16. 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 789-IN is fully comr-
mitted; disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program. Bids have also
been cleared for special drilling rigs to complete the land development com-
ponent of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976.
This project will finance in part the constlruction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement o:- a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23. 1971; Effective Date: Novimber 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains arId roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, hampered progress. As a result, construction of
the main canals has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely
to delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area.
Since the end of 1974, all material shortages have been removed and progress
has been satisfactory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land
development, however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project area. Government is aware of the inadequacy of
the operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for a
Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. This project was appraised in
August 1975, as a major component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh Composite
Irrigation and CAD Project, which is scheduled for Board presentation early
in calendar year 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 198U
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) Project; US$75.0
million credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 5,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX _I
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of these
credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional require-
ments, in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and
lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assess-
ing groundwater availability. These constraints have been overcome and dis-
bu.senments are on schedulQ.  Tractor procurement was delayed following changes
in both thLe suipTiy 7ld dcmand situations after ehe -r,jects were :riglaally
appraised, whic:-: prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well as imported
,;odels shouid 'be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Execu-
tive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation nationwide of
the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which were confined
to individual states. ARC will continue to act as the financial intermedi-
ary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
This project originally consisted of construction of ten 10,000-
ton capacity godowns and ten 20,000-ton silo units, engineering and consult-
ing services and an All-India Grain Storage Study. However, a July 1974
feasibility study for silos indicated that due to substantial cost increases,
particularly in steel, cement and other materials, the cost of constructing
silos, which represented the bulk of total project costs, would be about
double tne original estimates. Also, because the increase in demand for
foodgrains in India has exceeded the increase in foodgrains supply, the
use of silos for buffer stock storage has shifted to their use as bulk
grain receiving, seasonal storage and dispatch facilities. The Food
Corporation of India (FCI), SIDA and IDA have thus agreed on a redesign
of the silo component that would provide about half the original 200,000
tons of silo storage in five units and, in addition, two to four bulk grain
receiving stations and would also avoid an overrun in project cost. The
economic rate of return of this revised component is about 15%, slightly
more than half the return estimated at the time of original appraisal. In
order to allow sufficient time to complete construction and disbursements
of the silo program, the project closing date has been extended by three
years. The FCI has completed a contract for construction of the silo
foundations at two sites. A tender has been offered for foundations at
three sites. Tenders have been cleared for a part of the equipment. The
godown component has been fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain
Storage Study is progressing and the staff training program has been planned
in detail and is to be inplemented soon. Project implementation is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises roads, cold
storage, juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project has
encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical problems, and
implementation has fallen behind schedule. A recent supervision mission
has recommended remedial action, including certain project revisions to
bring it in line with managerial and technical capabilities. Although
the project would be scaled down in some respects, project cost would not
be altered, since there has been a substantial escalation in prices of
equipment since appraisal. Disbursements should be completed by the pres-
ent closing date. Government's agreement to the mission's recommendations
is currently being sought.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in mate-
rial supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply
were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and
imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
Revised disbursement schedules for these two credits are now expected to
be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered, and there are likely to be substantial cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.() million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Project; US$10.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Effective Date: AprLl 5, 1972; Closing
Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 3,J    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; lJS$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Proje,:t; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 millLon credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date- February 27, 1)75; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFOO Fertilizer Project; US$109 millLon loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended ito help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overzome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin por,:. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The Gorakhpur project is expected to be
commissioned late in 1975. Engineering work, procurement and site construc-
tion for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily, but the
project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment prices.
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project completion
may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected delivery
times for critical equipment. Engineering design and procurement for the
Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFC') project has been
delayed by about six months as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel
oil to naphthia.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced,
Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The building program will be largely completed as
scheduled in March 1976.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve by
FY1976 in line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of this
credit.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appoint:ment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project constructLon to fit the financing
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. Project construction is proceeding and most
major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory,
but major rate increases will be necessary starting in 1976.
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 14, 1975; Effective Date: March 31, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1975, for the initial
tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March 7, 1975.
By the end of November 1975, disbursements and reached US$170.6 million.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project was rather slow during
the first construction season (1973/74) in view of the reduction in overall
funding of the CMDA program and of organizational problems, but project im-
plementation and credit disbursements have now improved. However, project
costs have increased considerably, especially for subprojects ill tee water
supply and sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate tne project
size to funding available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is
expected to be completed by May 1977, six months behind the original sched-
ule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date:   August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize



ANNEX II
Page 12
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
This project will help to increase employnent and production in
order to improve income distribution for weaker sections of the population
in six districts selected for intensive assistance. A project review mission
has just returned and has reported that despite the project's unusual com-
plexity, most project components are proceeding well.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date:   October 23. 1975; Clositig
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date
September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
January 26, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:           Part A - the State Electricity Board (SEBs) of
the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and
West Bengal; and the Eastern and Western Regional
Electricity Boards.
Part B - the SEBs of the States of Assam, Kerala,
Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Tamil Nadu;
the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking; the Beas
Construction Board; the Southern and Northern
Regional Electricity Boards; and the Tata Power
Company.
Part C - the Central Electricity Authority.
Amount:                  US$150 million.
Terms:                   Standard.
Project
Description:          Part A - the purchase of equipment and materials
for transmission systems scheduled to be constructed
during the period 1976/77-1978/79 (about 2,800
circuit km of 220 kv overhead transmission lines,
about 15 km of 220 kv and 132 kv underground cable,
and substation equipment required to increase the
capacity of 30 substations by about 2,700 MVA) by
four SEBs and two Regional Boards.
Part B - the completion of subprojects undertaken
by eleven other beneficiaries under Credit 377-IN.
Part C - the undertaking of system planning studies
by the Central Electricity Authority.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:
------(US$ million)------
Local    Foreign     Total
Part A:
Conductors and Cables                      7.2     15.8       23.0
Towers                                    16.7      1.8        18.5
Load Despatch Equipment                   10.0     11.8       21.8
Transformers                               5.0      5.4        10.4
Switchgear                                 6.3      4.8        11.1
Insulators, Capacitors                     2.8      4.9        7.7
Other equipment                            0.6      0.6         1.2
Civil works, overhead                     30.4       -        30.4
Sub-Total                       79.0     45.1      124.1
Physical Contingencies                     4.3      2.2        6.5
Price Contingencies                       18.0     10.2       28.2
Sub-Total                      101.3     57.5      158.8
Part B:
Additional Equipment for Power
Transmission III                        25.0     20.8       45.8
Part C:
Technical Assistance                       0.7      2.0        2.7
Total                          127.0     80.3      207.3
Financing Plan:                               (US$ million)
IDA Credit                             150.0
GOI Loans and Grants                    57.:
207.:3
Estimated
Disbursements:                    -------------US$ niillion)---------------
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80    FY81   Total
16.0   46.0   63.0   22.0    3.0   150.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement
Arrangements:           All equipment and materials to be financed by IDA
would be procured through international competitive
bidding. A preference of 15%, or the actual
import duty, whichever is lower, would be granted
to Indian suppliers for the purpose of evaluating
international bids.
Rate of Return:           Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         No. 913a-IN, dated December 23, 1975.



IETkD 2833lRi
POWER TRANSMAISSION- FOURTH PROJECT
REGiOMAL POWER BOARDS
A,'rFUTIIAB                 I-                                       - 
/    V?4".                      (                   ef
4:_              ...... l   ~~        i,TPTDT          '~~                                                   H..   /
4-                                                 -R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
RAU S                         It
U                        -~~~I 
C-                                                                                         0 ARST
BAY
BENGAL
GOA                                            2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EMARECATIC N OF  ERRF COUNTRY INTO VARIOUS REGIORIS
ARABIAN
VIIVIESIEATRN REGION
SEA             R    J                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IISCTHERIN REI U.TIA ,  e   Rt,dl.h H ,,,
1~~                           -df-     K-  ., Ild-, K.11.!.k. IIV,,t,h,I I,d-A



