CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 604 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 604 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 22, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1976, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Part A State" means any of the following four States of India: Bihar,
Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal;
(b)   "Electricity (Supply) Act" means the Borrower's Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, as amended;
(c)   "Part A Board" means any of the State Electricity Boards established
pursuant to the Electricity (Supply) Act in one of the Part A States;
(d)   "Part B State" means any of the following six states of India: Assam,
Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka (formerly called Mysore), Orissa and Tamil
Nadu;
(e)   "Part B  Board" means (i) any of the State Electricity Boards
established pursuant to the Electricity (Supply) Act in one of the Part B States,
(ii) the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking, or (iii) the Beas Construction Board,
and "Part B Boards" means all of such State Electricity Boards, the Delhi Electricity
Supply Undertaking and the Beas Construction Board;


﻿4
(f)   "Authority" means the Borrower's Central Electricity Authority
established pursuant to Section 3 of the Electricity (Supply) Act;
(g)   "Part A Regional Board" means either the Western Regional Electricity
Board of the Borrower set up by Resolution No. EL-II-35(2)/63 of March 28,
1964 or the Eastern Regional Electricity Board of the Borrower set up by
Resolution No. EL-II-35(7)/63 of March 6, 1964;
(h)   "Part B  Regional Board" means either the Southern Regional
Electricity Board of the Borrower set up by Resolution No. EL-I1-35(1)/63 of
February 7, 1964 or the Northern Regional Electricity Board of the Borrower
set up by Resolution No. EL-II-35(3)/63 of February 13, 1964;
(i)   "Company" means the Tata Power Company, Ltd.;
(j)   "Beneficiary" means any of the Part A Boards, Part B Boards, the
Authority and the Company; and
(k)   "Development Credit Agreement 377-IN" means the Development
Credit Agreement (Third Power Transmission Project) between the Borrower and
the Association, dated May 9, 1973.
ARTICLE I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and fifty million dollars
($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between tile
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services for Part A of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of tile
Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group C (as defined in paragraph
B.2(b)(3) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately grant
permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no review of such
permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies.
When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group
A or group B (as defined in paragraphs B.2(b)(1) and (2) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate
applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and
(iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
for Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement 377-IN and the provisions of Schedule 3 thereto.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I 7) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
January 15, 1986, and ending July 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of I ) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/29,) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out (i) Part A of the Project
through the Authority (on behalf of the Part A Regional Boards) and the Part
A Boards, (ii) Part B of the Project through the Authority (on behalf of the Part
B Regional Boards), the Part B Boards and the Company, and (iii) Part C of the
Project through the Authority, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and public utility practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times make available, or cause to be made
available, to the Beneficiaries (except the Company), promptly as needed, all sums
which shall be required for the carrying out of their respective parts of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action which shall
be necessary on its part to enable the Beneficiaries to carry out their respective
parts of the Project and shall not take, or permit any political subdivision or agency
of the Borrower to take, any action that would prevent or interfere with the prompt
carrying out of their respective parts of the Project by the Beneficiaries.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Beneficiary
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and in particular to cause each Beneficiary to carry out its respective obligations
referred to in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
take, within the powers available to it, all such steps as shall be required to obtain,
by March 31, 1976 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association), from each Part A Board an undertaking, in a form
to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, which shall be
endorsed by the Part A State in which such Board is established:
(i)         to carry out its part of the Project under the general supervision
of the Borrower with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices;
(ii)        to obtain the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement and to use such goods exclusively
for the Project;


﻿7
(iii)       to furnish to the Association through the Authority promptly
upon their approval by the Authority the plans, specifications,
justification, and construction schedule for its part of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in
such detail as the Association shall from time to time request;
(iv)        to maintain records adequate to identify the goods and services
acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of its part of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound public utility accounting
practices its operations and financial condition;
(v)         to allow the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
sites, works and construction included in the Project, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)        to insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, all goods acquired out of the proceeds of
the Credit; such insurance shall cover such marine, transit and
other risks incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation; such insurance
shall be for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
business practices; and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the insured party to
replace or repair such goods;
(vii)       in addition, to insure against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound business and public utility
practices or to make other adequate arrangements to cover
promptly any damage or losses resulting from    such risks;
(viii)      to inform  the Borrower and the Association promptly of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the carrying
out of its part of the Project, or which shall increase or threaten
to increase materially the estimated cost of its part of the
Project;
(ix)        to give all such information as the Borrower and the Association
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to its
financial condition, operations and administration;


﻿8
(x)         to furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning its part of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds;
(xi)        to: (a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles  consistently  applied, by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the  foregoing  accounts and    financial statements as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(xii)      to agree to the provisions set forth in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. In connection with the part of Part A of the Project to be
carried out by the Authority on behalf of the Part A Regional Boards, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority to assume the obligations specified in paragraphs (i)
through (x) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the undertaking
obtained from each Part B Board and the Company, respectively, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 of Development Credit Agreement 377-IN, as such
undertaking may be amended with the approval of the Association, shall be made
applicable to this Agreement with respect to the carrying out of their respective
parts of the Project.
(b)   In connection with the part of Part B of the Project to be carried
out by the Authority on behalf of the Part B Regional Boards, the Borrower shall
cause the Authority to assume the obligations specified in Section 3.03(i) of
Development Credit Agreement 377-IN.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the Authority to: (a) assume the obligations specified in paragraphs (i), (iv),
(v), (viii), (ix) and (x) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and (b) employ, where


﻿9
considered necessary by the Authority, consultants whose terms of reference, and
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment, shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall promptly take all such steps as shall be
required to strengthen the machinery for coordinated power planning and to
improve the financial operations of the power sector.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, through the Authority, (i) prepare, in
conjunction with each State Electricity Board in India, the State in which such
Board is established, and the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking. annual financial
forecasts through fiscal year 1978/79 in such form and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, and (ii) furnish to the Association, by
March 31, 1977 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association), copies of such forecasts with respect to each State Electricity
Board and the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take, within the powers available to
it, all such steps as shall be required to obtain, by March 31, 1976 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), from
each Part A Board an undertaking, satisfactory to the Association and endorsed
by the State in which such Board is established, that the Board will achieve and
maintain a rate of return of not less than nine and one-half per cent (9-1/2'I)
in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Annex may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Section and subparagraph
(i) of Section 4.06 of this Agreement, the annual rate of return for any financial
year shall be calculated by taking the operating income for the respective financial
year as a percentage of the average of the capital base at the beginning and end
of such financial year. For the purpose of the foregoing:
(i)         "operating income" means total operating revenues from the
generation, transmission, distribution or sale of electricity and
from other services incidental thereto, less all administrative,
operating and maintenance expenses, adequate provision for
depreciation on fixed assets in operation, and taxes (including
income taxes), but excluding interest and other charges on debt-
and


﻿10
(ii)        "capital base" means the sum of (A) the gross book value of
fixed assets in operation, (B) the cost of intangible assets, and
(C) an amount on account of working capital equal to one-sixth
(1/6) of the administrative, operating and maintenance expenses
for the financial year ending on the date under consideration;
less (A) the amount of accumulated depreciation charged on
account of fixed assets in operation, (B) the amount contributed
by customers for fixed assets in operation, and (C) the amount
of security deposits of consumers.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take, within the powers available to it,
all such steps as shall be required to obtain, by March 31, 1976 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), from
each Part A Board an undertaking, Satisfactory to the Association and endorsed
by the State in which such Board is established:
(i)         to carry out, in consultation with the Authority, a pricing study
relating to electricity supplied by such Board based on the
marginal cost principles established in the document entitled
"Study of Electricity Tariffs in Andhra Pradesh" (Report
No. 851-IN), dated August 25, 1975; and
(ii)        to  prepare, by March 3 1, 1977, in consultation with the
Authority, a report of its findings, including an analysis of the
implications of such findings on its finances.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take, within the powers available to it,
all such steps as shall be required to obtain, by March 31, 1976 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), from
the Bihar State Electricity Board an undertaking, satisfactory to the Association
and endorsed by the State of Bihar, to (i) amend the Board's fuel clause to provide
for adjustment of existing surcharges to include the fuel cost increases relating
to system losses, and (ii) implement such revised surcharges on all consumers not
later than April 1, 1976 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association).
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take, within the powers available to it,
all such steps as shall be required to obtain, by March 31, 1976 (or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), from
each Part A State an assurance, in a form to be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association:


﻿11
(i)        to provide its Board with an annual subsidy, with effect from
April 1, 1976, equivalent to the amount by which such Board's
operating expenses (including loan interest) in respect of rural
electrification  operations exceed  its revenues from  such
operations, or such lower amount as may be required for such
Board to achieve and maintain a rate of return of nine and
one-half per cent (9-1/2%); and
(ii)       to make arrangements acceptable to the Association for the
disposal of any claim such State may have for unpaid interest
on loans advanced to such Board as of March 31, 1976.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall appoint a qualified and experienced person
as Chairman of the Authority.
Section 4.08. Not later than March 31, 1977 (or such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), the Borrower shall,
through the Authority, prepare guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for the
capitalization of interest during construction.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   a default shall have occurred on the part of any Part A Board in the
performance of any undertaking referred to in Sections 3.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05
of this Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred on the part of any Part A State in the
performance of any obligation under the assurance referred to in Section 4.06
of this Agreement;
(c)   a default shall have occurred on the part of any Part B Board or the
Company in the performance of any undertaking referred to in Section 3.04(a)
of this Agreement;
(d)   a default shall have occurred on the part of the Authority in the
performance of any obligation referred to in Sections 3.03, 3.04(b) and 3.05 of
this Agreement; and


﻿12
(e)   a default shall have occurred on the part of the Borrower in the
performance of any obligation under Development Credit Agreement 377-IN.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that, the Borrower shall have
appointed the Chairman of the Authority in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date April 22, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
and the provisions of paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0 1. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿13
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For tht Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S.M.L. van der Meer
Director, Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   For Parts A and
C of the Project
(a)  Bihar
(i)        Transmis-           11,000,000         100%
sion Line
Materials
(ii)       Substa-              3,500,000         100%-
tion Equip-
ment
(iii)      PLCC/Load            1,500,000         100%
Dispatch
Equipment
(b)   Gujarat
(I)        Transmis-           17,500,000         100%
sion Line
Materials
(ii)       Substa-              6,500,000         100%
tion Equip-
ment
(c)  Maharashtra
(i)        Transmis-            8,250,000         100%
sion Line
Materials


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(ii)       Substa-             11,500,000         100%
tion Equip-
ment
(iii)      PLCC/Load           10,500,000         100%
Dispatch
Equipment
(d)   West Bengal
(i)        Transmis-           11,500,000         100%
sion Line
Materials
(ii)       Substa-              4,750,000         100%
tion Equip-
ment
(iii)      PLCC/Load            1,500,000         100%
Dispatch
Equipment
(e)   Western Regional
Electricity Board         5,000,000         100/
(f)  Eastern Regional
Electricity Board         5,000,000         100%
(g)   Consultants'
Services                  2,000,000         100%
(h)   Unallocated              20,000,000
(2)  For Part B of the              30,000,000         100%
Project
TOTAL        150,000,000


﻿16
2.   The disbursement percentages have be -n calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the iiaportation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decrease or increase,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)  in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   with respect to contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials
for which an invitation to bid has been issued more than twelve months after
the date of this Agreement or for which orders have been placed more than eighteen
months after the date of this Agreement;
(c)   for any purpose under Category (2) after December 31, 1978 (or such     -
other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association);
(d)  in respect of expenditures by the Authority unless the Association
shall have received, by March 31, 1976 (or such other date as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association) evidence satisfactory to the
Association that the Authority has assumed the obligations referred to in Sections
3.03, 3.04(b) and 3.05 of this Agreement;
(e)  in respect of the expenditures by any Part B Board or Company unless
the Association shall have received, by March 31, 1976 (or such other date as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such Part B Board or Company has accepted
that the undertaking referred to in Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement shall be
made applicable for the purpose of carrying out its part under Part B of the Project;
and
(f)  in respect of expenditures by any Part A Board (with regard to the
portion of the Credit allocated to it) for which the following conditions have not
been fulfilled:
(i)        the Association shall have received the undertaking of such Part
A Board, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of
this Agreement;


﻿17
(ii)       the Association shall have received the undertakings of such Part
A Board in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of this Agreement;
(iii)       the Association shall have received tthe assurance of the Part
A State in which such Part A Board is established with respect
to the obligations of such State referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and
(iv)        with respect to the Bihar State Electricity Board, the Association
shall have received its undertaking in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation   of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with. the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association s reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:    The supply and construction of about 2,800 circuit km of 220 kv
overhead transmission lines, about 15 km of 220 kv and 132 kv
underground cable, and substation equipment required to increase the
capacity of 30 substations by about 2,700 MVA, in the States of Bihar,
Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal, and in the areas of operation
of the Western and Eastern Regional Electricity Boards.
Part B:    The supply and construction of part of about 4,000 km       of
transmission lines operating at voltages between 1 10 kv and 400 kv,
about 60 substations with an aggregate capacity of about 4,600 MVA
and communications equipment for two load dispatch centers, in the
States of Assam, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka (formerly called
Mysore) and Tamil Nadu, and in the areas of operation of the Delhi
Electricity Supply Undertaking, the Beas Construction Board, the
Southern and Northern Regional Electricity Boards and the Tata Power
Company, Ltd.
Part C:    A program to conduct comprehensive technical, economic and financial
planning studies on a regional and national basis in order to produce
a long-term plan for power development in India and to help establish
the necessary expertise within the Central Electricity Authority.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿19
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Rates of Return to be Achieved
and Maintained by Part A Boards
Part A Boards         FY 77           FY 78           FY 79 and thereafter
Maharashtra            9.5%            9.5%                    9.5%
Gujarat                9.5%            9.5%                    9.5%
Bihar                  7.0%            9.5%                    9.5%
West Bengal            5.0%            8.5%                    9.5%


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Goods and services for Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts
to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding, and pursuant to the provisions
set forth in this Schedule.
2.   Invitations to bid for identical or similar items of machinery, equipment
or material shall, to the extent possible, be consolidated into a single bid invitation.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿21
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for machinery, equipment or material estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended


﻿22
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
,lw


