Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,A/ 30oC)6 - Q - Czp/t
Report No. 7257-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NINGBO AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
SHANGHAI PORT
CHINA
November 16, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by rients only In the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1988)
Curtency name        =   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency unit            Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              =   Y 3.70
US$0.27              =   Y 1.00
US$270,270               Y 1,000,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                    British/US System
1 meter (m)              =       3.281 feet
1 square meter (s2)      =       10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )       =       35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.621 mile
=      0.5396 nautical mile
1 ton-km                 =       0.621 ton-mile
1 ton                    =       2,204 pounds
1 hectare (ha)           =       2.469 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAPRC      -  Audit Administration of the People's Republic
of China
ADT        -  Average Daily Traffic
CHC        -  Cargo Handling Corporation
CIECC      -  China International Engineering Consultancy
Corporation
cif        -  Cost, insurance and freight
COSCO      -  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
CNTIC      -  China National Technical Import Corporation
dwt        -  Deadweight tons
ERR        -  Ecrnomic Rate of Return
FYP        -  Five Year Plan
GOC        -  Government of China
LRMC       -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MLW        -  Mean Low Water
MOC        -  Ministry of Conmunications
MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
MR         -  Ministry of Railways
NPV        -  Net Present Value
SHB        -  Shanghai Harbor Bureau
SHS        -  Shanghai Harbar Superintendency
nrt        -  Net registered ton
PBC        -  People's Bank of China
SEZ        -  Special Economic Zone
SPC        -  State Planning Commission
teu        -  Twenty-foot equivalent unit



FOR OFFICLAL UtSE ONLY
CHINA
NINGBO AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
SHANGHAI PORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Peor'e's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:             Ningbo Port Authority and Shanghai Harbor Bureau
Amount:                    $76.4 million equivalent: $30.0 million for Ningbo
and $46.4 million for Shanghai.
Terms:                     Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:           Out of the proceeds of the loan, $46.4 million
equivalent would be onlent by the Government to SHB
under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year
term, including 5 years of grace, at an inlterest
rate of 6.2Z p.a. The foreign exchange -risk and the
commitment fees would be borne by SHB.
Project Objectives:        The principal objective of the project is to assist
the Government in its efforts to improve operations,
relieve congestion and increase the handling
capacity in the ports subsector. The project would
provide for infrastructure development at two key
ports in China, modern equipment needed to operate
the new facilities, as well as technical assistance
and training to strengthen the ports' management,
improve operating capabilities, and address long
term aspects of port development.
Project Description:       The proposed project includes,developments at
Shanghai port which consist of: (a) the construction
of general and multipurpose terminals at Baoshan and
Guangang comprising eight berths each; (b) the
construction of two coal handling berths at
Zhujiamen; (c) the reconstruction of four berths at
the Minsheng terminal; (d) the construction of an
80,000-ton capacity grain silo; (e) the acquisition
of cargo handling equipment; (f) a study to develop
a port costing and management information system
framework to help China's ports in establishing
cost-based tariffs; (g) a review of the Master Plan
of Shanghai port by a panel of experts; and (h) the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
carrying out of a number of measures to improve the
efficiency and safety of the port.
Risks:                     The only possible risk in the project is that it may
be delayed in the course of construction. On the
basis of preparations already made by SHB, this risk
is not considered to be a serious one.
Estimated Project Cost (Shanghai Port):   Local             Foreign       Total
…(US$ million) ----------
Civil works                                81.5           125.7          207.2
Equipment                                   7.1            38.6           45.7
Technical assistance and training           0.6              2.7           3.3
Subtotal                               89.2           167.0          256.2
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.6             1.2'           1.8
Price                                     1.1             5.2            6.3
Total Project Cost                      90.9           173.4          264.3
Financing Plan (Shanghai Port):
Bank loan                                  -             46.4           46.4
Port/Government                          90.9           125.4          216.3
Japan and others /a                        -               1.6           1.6
Total                                  90.9           173.4          264.3
Estimated Disbursements (Shanghai Port):
Bank FY                 1989   1990    1991    1992       1993
---------- (US$ million) -----------
Annual                      11.6    10.7    13.0      7.8       3.3
Cumulative                 11.6    22.3    35.3    43.1        46.4
Economic Rate of Return (Shanghai Port): 18X
Maps: IBRD 20746 and 20747
/a   Inclusive of US$0.7 million from Cr. 1664-CHA.



- lii -
CHINA
NINGBO AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJb:T
SHANGHAI PORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................                                1
A. Traffic ..............................................             1
Bo Investment .....o..O..O..0.0.00..O..0.0.000.0..........           ................  2
C. Land Transport Systems...oo. .oo....................o.....o...     2
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s...............0       3
II.  THE PORTS SUBSECTOR .............. ........   ....... .. ..... ....... . ..  4
Ao Port Traffic         .............................                 4
B. Organization and Management................................        5
C. Operations and Maintenance.*            ......................... 6
D. Investment Priorities and Technology.......................        7
Eo  Tariffs   oo o .o oo .o o o o.es o .o o *   *. o.o .o.............oo....................  7
Fo The Role of the Bank........................................       9
C. Experience in Past Lending          ................................  9
III.  THE PORT OF SHANGHAI....................ooo...9o.............        10
A. Location and Facilities ....................................      10
Bo Hinterland.................................................       11
Do  Operations   o.o.o......oo..ooo.....o...oo..ooo..........oo...o...ooo....   12
E.  Environmento..o..o......oeoo.....o..ooo..o.o..o.e........oo.....ooo....o  12
F. Management and Organization    o..............................o   13
G. Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Audit..................       14
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions which visited Shanghai in October 1987 and March-April 1988,
respectively. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. M. S. Parthasarathi
(Economist), Kek Choo Chung (Port Operations Specialist), S.M.L. van der Meer
(Port Engineer/Consultant), Billy Cheng (Financial Analyst/Consultant), Andrew
Zador (Bulk Handling Specialist/Consultant), G. U. Fortunati (Environment
Specialist/Consultant) and Cai Chengzhang.



- iv -
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT ...............................................*              15
A. Project Objectives .......... .............................            15
B. Description of Main Project Itemst....        em..o.o. .............   16
C. Ecology and Environment.2.............                                 17
Do Cost uso     eiati o..... ..............* ....................         18
EH  Financingr .oo...........................................             19
F. Status of Prepartion............ .... ........ ...**..*........o       20
A. Implementation....... .......... ... 0. 0*0*.... ...........e          20
H. Portacltieos... Epaion P.a..o.. ..                     .               21
I. Disuurseer                        s    ee...n.... *.. r*..0..*....*.*..  ...0..  22
J. Reporting o.eraoio..........o.o......o....... ...*                     22
V.  ECONOMIC E        V    ALAndBNef..... ... ....o..... *..*o.. o..o.o..o..o  22
A.onrd                               uto                                  22
B. Port Facilities Expansion       Pln22
Co Future Trafc r             afof                    ic.6  . 04*000000...00  23
Do Impact on Operationso.oo  ..ooooo  ..aoooo.o                           24
E. Costs and Beefis..e                     f     i      ts0000 .          25
F. Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysiso.o.o...... ....            26
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS.I .........27
A . Past Results ......       ......    0 ..... ..............................   27
B. Present Financial Position      s     i     t    i     on......o.....0....  27
C. Future Financial Performance.ooo...o........oo...*o..*oo*              28
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.. o................. ...           29
ANNEXES
1. Documents Available in Project File
2. Training Program
3. Terms of Reference for the Expert Panel to be Established by the World
Bank and the Shanghai Harbor Bureau to Review the Master Plan of
Shanghai Port
4. Proposed Action Plan
5. Development of a Port Costing and Management Information System: Terms
of Reference
6. Implementation Schedule
7. Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports



v
TABLES
3.1   Port Traffic (1981-2000)
4.1   Project Cost Summary
4.2   Equipment to be Financed by Bank Loan:  Baoshan Terminal - Cost
Estimates
4.3   Equipment to be Financed by Bank Loan:  Guangang Terminal - Cost
Estimates
4.4   Equipment to be Financed by Bank Loan:  Zhujiamen Terminal - Cost
Estimates
4.5   Equipment to be Financed by Bank Loan:  Minsheng Terminal - Cost
Estimates
4.6   Equipment to be Procured under _ocal Competitive Bidding and Other
Procedures
4.7   Cumulative Disbirsements 'Schedule
5.1   Traffic Handled by the Port
5.2   Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
5.3   Economic Project Cost
5.4   Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths
5.5   Loading/Unloading Cost Savings
5.6   Economic Benefits Summary
5.7   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.1   Income Statement
6.2   Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
CHARTS
41635:1 - Organization of the Shanghai Harbor Bureau
41635:2 - Typical Organization of District
MAPS
IBRD 20746 - Shanghai Port Project
IBRD 20747 - Project Terminals



CHINA
SHA_GHAI PORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.
1.1       Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. The
rapid growth of China's economy in recent years has stimulated an increasing
demand for the shipment of ccmnodities of all sorts, and for passenger travel
as well. Efforts to reduce waste within the transport system (for example, by
eliminating cross-hauling of the same commodity, increasing the processing of
raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity of road and
waterway utilization) are certainly desirable, and are being pursued. More
fundamentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation
shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the bystem's capacity, by
increasing the productivity of existing facilities wherever possible and by
building new facilities where necessary.
A. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  Domest.c freight transported in 1986 by all modes
reached 1,383 billion ton-km, representing an 8% increase over 1985 and an
average annual growth rate since 1952 of almost 9%, consistently higher than
the growth of domestic product. By the year 2000, domestic freight traffic
could be in the range of 3,000 billion ton-km.  The modal split has movcd
toward a more balanced use of modes, with the railways' dominant share of 82%
in 1952 reduced to 63% by 1986.
1.3       Passenger traffic reached 459 billion passenger-km (p-km) in 1986,
up 7% over 1985 and representing an average annual growth rate of 11% since
1978 and almost 9% since 1952. This illustrates the increasing demand for
travel as income grows. It is likely that this gro-cth would have been even
more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity of the
transport sector, particularly the railways, to offer more passenger services.
Railways are the major passenger carrier, handling 56% of the traffic i.
1986. Despite the rapid growth of passenger traffic in recent years, the
mobility of the Chinese people is still much lower than that of people in
countries with comparable income levels. By the turn of the century,
passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion p-km per year.
1/   The Shanghai Port Project is a component of a proposed project (Ningbo
and Shanghai Ports Project), the other component being for Ningbo Port.
The Shanghai component is referred to in this report as the Project.



- 2 -
B. Investment
1.4       Over the period 1953-85, some Y 154 billion, or 14% of all new
investments under central government control, went to transport. In compari-
son with other countries, annual levels of transport investment appear to have
been on the low side, a factor contributing to transport now being a bottle-
neck to economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of coal
had accumulated in Shanxi Province for lack of transport, and some of this
stockpiled coal was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a recent
policy of curtailing production to match available transport, the volume of
coal stockpiled in Shanxi has again begun increasing. Rural areas are short
of transport, both for agriculture and for cther rural enterprises. In che
ports, lack cf proper handling facilities is hamperIng trade in bulk conmodi-
tie3 such as fertilizers, cement and grain. In the coming decades, a ml;4h
larger investment effort will be needed in transport if these bottlenecks are
to be overcome.
C. Land Transpnrt Systems
1.5       The railway system, in 1986, consisted of some 52,000 route-km, of
which about 10,600 km are double or multiple-track and 4,430 kmn are elec-
trified. The network is served by 12,270 locomotives, 314,540 freight cars
and 22,140 passenger coaches. At present, 61% of tractive power is still
steam, 33% diesel and 6% electric. Freight traffic density averages 16.7 mil-
lion net ton-km per route-km which is the second highest freight density in
the world after the Soviet Union, and nearly twice that of the United States.
Freight traffic reached 877 billion t-km in 198..  Growth averaged 5.6% p.a.
since 1978, and reached 7.8% in 1986. Three-quarters of all freight traffic
involves ten commudities including coal, timber, iron and steel, grain and
construction materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.9 million passen-
ger-km per route-km is now the world's highest. In 1986 1.1 billion passen-
gers were carried. The average annual increase since 1978 has been 10%.
Deepite some possible rationalization in the transport of raw materials and
heavy industrial outputs, there is no question but that the transport demand
for the major commodities will continue to grow rapidly. Thus, although its
share of  te total is expected to decrease, rail traffic will continue to
grow, requiring massive investments in line capacity, motive power and rolling
stock well into the future.
1.6       The highway system comprised about 962,800 km in 1986, of which
about 204,000 km were asphalt paved, about 758,800 km, gravel and sand paved.
Despite impressive expansion of the road network since 1949, when only some
80,000 km of motorable roads existed, the roads in China today are inadequate
because: (a) pavement strength and quality are poor; (b) there are many
thousand kilometers of extremely rough macadam-surfaced roads carrying in
excess of 300 average daily traffic (ADT); (c) congestion is severe neat
cities, due to the mixing of slow and fast mcving traffic; and (d) there are
gaps of about 4,000 km in major national rcads linking large cities and
provincial capitals. The road network and road transport in China today can
therefore only be characterized as underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however,
is well organized and currently absorbs much of the attention and resources of
the provincial and other local road authorities. Except in western China, the



- 3 -
Except in western China, the highway network is still very much a system of
feeder roads to the railways. Nevertheless, motor traffic has reportedly
grown at a very high overall annual average of 15Z on the national highways
since 1978.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.7       The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. Coal
transportation is a particularly serious case because of its significance for
energy supply and hence for industrial growth. At present, transport is a
greater constraint on the supply of energy than coal mine development. China
also needs to substantially expand its port and waterway facilities to relieve
the growing constraint to external trade caused by inadequate berth capacity
and container handling capability. There is need for dramatically expanded
road transport, to serve a multiplicity of needs, including access to and from
ports. Increasing specialization and rapid growth of light manufactures has
created an urgent demand for better road transport and integrated intermodal
(IIM) services. Road transport will also be called upon to meet a growing
share of the demand for passenger transportation from an increasingly mobile
population.
1.8       China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (7th FYP, 1986-90) recognizes all
these sectoral needs. By the end of the Plan period, freight traffic is
projected to be 45% higher than in 1985, and passenger traffic 60% higher,
with a greater share of the ircrease falling on road transport. To meet these
needs, substantial investments are envisioned, especially in new rail lines,
double-tracking and electrification of existing lines, new highways, and more
berths at deep-water ports. The Plan also proposes to secure efficiency gains
in transp'rtation from operational improvements; these include the development
of integrated intermodal transportation networks, in particular for coal
transportation and for import/export trade, and technological improvements
such ats container-handling facilities and intermodal transport terminals. To
facilitate these developments, the Plan envisions significant institutional
changes in the sector, including an extension of the policy of separating the
functions of government from those of operating enterprises and delegating
greater authority to the latter (rec-ently begun in the ports subsector).
Continuing adjustment of the prices charged for transportation services is
expected to assist the funding of investments in the sector from internally
generated resources.
1.9       The Bank subscribes to the Government's objectives for development
of the transport sector, and is supporting its initiatives with both financial
and technical assistance. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2540-CHA,
2678/Cr. 1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signalling
equipment; a Fourth Railway Project, approved by the Executive Directors on
June 23, 1988, provides for strategic studies for technological modernization,
as well as expansion of line capacities and manufacturing facilities. Four
highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit 1594-CHA, Loan 2811/Credit 1792 and two
additional projects approved by the Executive Directors on June 9, 1988)
involve the construction or improvement of both national and rural roads.



Port-related activities are described in paras 2.21-2.22. Besides these
subsector-specific operations, the Bank has recently begun to assist the
Government in the conduct of atrategic studies and implementation of projects
of a wider nature: a review of the utilization of water transport was
completed in 1987, a comprehensive transportation study for Guangdong Province
is in progress, and a provincial transport sector project is under preparation
for Jiangsu Province which includes highway and inland waterway improvements.
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
2.1       China has 15 major deep-water ports; six of these (Shanghai, Dalian,
Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Huangpu and Tianjin) handle over 80% of the total
traffic. Shanghai, with 102 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the
world. In 1987 it handled 128 million tons of cargo nd more than 12 million
passengers. Ningbo Port, which is close to Shanghai, is one of China's few
natural deep-water ports, and is the only deep-water port on China's mid-
eastern seaboard. There are also many minor ports along China's 2,000-km
coastline and 110,000 kms of navigable waterways.
A. Port Traffic
2.2       In comparison with other developing countries, China's port traffic
is low in relation to the size of its economy. However, it is now growing
rapidly following the opening of the economy to foreign trade: between 1971
and 1986 traffic at the 15 major ports more than doubled to 344 million
tons. Tonnages of domestic and foreign cargoes are increasing about equ&lly,
but foreign traffic is growing at a faster rate. Foreign trade is expected to
continue growing in step with the economy as a whole; the Seventh Five-Year
Plan envisions total port traffic reaching 500 million tons by 1990, which
will be more than 50% higher than the 1985 volume. About one third of total
traffic is coal which mainly moves from northern coal loading ports for
distribution through ports on the south and east coasts. Bottlenecks in coal
transport are seen as a major constraint to continued rapid economic growth.
Other bulk and semi-btlk cargoes also feature prominently in water-borne
traffic. These include iron ore, grain, fertilizer, construction materials,
timber and cement. General cargo usually comprises between 10% and 20% of the
traffic at the major ports.
2.3       Introduction of cargo unitization has only just begun, and the
future potential for growth in unitized cargo movements (containers, pallets,
etc.) is very large. In 1986, total port container traffic was 620,000 teu
(twenty-foot equivalent units). In the first eight months of 1987, total
containerized cargo amounted to 3.3 million tons, and this represented a 21%
increase over the same period in 1986. Presently, there are 21 ports which
handle containers and altogether there are 13 specialized container berths
with a total throughput capacity of over 1 million teu.



-5-
B. Organization and Management
2.4       One of the most important challenges facing the management of
China's ports is how the ports are going to adapt to changing circumstances
brought about by the economic reforms. While the reforms were first initiated
in China in 1979, the port sector has only recently begun to be affected when
the Ministry of Communications (MOC) started the process of port decentraliza-
tion in 1984. Key ingredients of the reforms in the port sector will be self-
financing of port operations and investments from internal cash generation,
and increasing competition among ports for cargo. Prior to the reforms, MOC
set tariffs, allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major investments,
coverad any deficits, and received all of the surpluses generated by the
ports. Presently, only a portion of the total cargo is allocated; tariffs for
unallocated cargo are allowed to be set competitively within a narrow band,
and profits are retained by the ports and are subject to taxes. The tax
arrangements however, tend to be ad hoc (usually fixed lump sum payments), and
are appareitly based on the needs of individual ports to retain surpluses. In
the future, the government plans to progressively reduce controlled allocation
of traffic, reform tariffs and taxation policies, and eliminate grant
financing of investments.
2.5       The first port to be decentralized was Tianjin under a "1Pilot System
Reform" introduced in 1984 in which the primary leadership of the port was
tranferred from MOC to the local government. This has meant that the port
received a great degree of autonomy in management, investment planning and
control over its finances. As part of the decentralizatior. arrangement,
Tianjin port also was exempted from paying any profits tax up to the year
1990. In 1986, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian were also decentralized with
somewhat modified provisions regarding taxes and grant financing of invest-
ments.  They are required to pay a fixed lump sum tax, require MOC approval of
large investments, and will receive some grant financing through 1990.
Huangpu port was similariy decentralized, though specific provisions were
again slightly different.  All of the remaining ports under MOC control are to
be decentralized by the end of 1988.
2.6       The main objectives of this program of decentralization are to
develop the capability and initiative of the ports' local managements, and to
increase co-ordination between port development and the development plans of
the region served by a port. Further, it is expected that the need to be
financially self-sufficient and to compete for cargo will encourage efficiency
in the ports sub-sector. Recent comments by Chinese leaders have expressed
satisfaction with the program in general, and while it is still too early to
evaluate the different models adopted, it appears that future policy will tend
to be more even handed and uniform in its treatment of various ports. Key
elements of that policy will relate to taxation, tariffs and the financing of
investments, and in order to develop efficient policies in these areas, there
is a need to improve the information available on port operations, costs and
finances. In support of the Government's initiatives in this area, the Bank
is assisting MOC in conducting a number of studies including research on
alternative organizational forms employed in other countries and development
of port costing systems (para. 2.20).



- 6 -
C. Operations and Maintenaace
2.7       All major ports in China operate around the clock with a three-shift
system, but operations are increasingly hampered by congestion inside the port
areas. One major factor contributing to congestion is over-aged and outmoded
equipment; another is excessive reliance on break-bulk cargo handling methods
which have been replaced in most major ports of the world by various forms of
cargo unitization (containers, pallets, etc.). Another factor is a lack of
adequate hinterland transport capacity at most of China's major ports. In
addition, the tariff structure is distorted (paras. 2.15-2.20) and fails to
provide incentives for efficient utilization of existing facilities. In
particular, the current port tariff does not encourage the efficient use of
limited port storage facilities or the use of more efficient unitized cargo
handling techniques.
2.8       Port congestion peaked in 1985 when average ship delays for foreign
trade vessels were as high as 11 days. This improved somewhat in 1986 as a
result of go-errument restrictions on imports, but port congestion is beginning
to increase again. These expensive ship delays can be traced to a number of
deficiencies in addition to the lack of an adequate number of berths. Poor
documentation procedures and inadequate information systems in the ports often
lead to delays caused oy documents not being available in time, and/or the
port not having the right equipment available when a ship is ready to start
loading/discharging cargo.
2.9       There is also a need to rationalize cargo movements.  In many of the
southern and eastern ports, a large proportion of the traffic involves ship-
to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be avoided by direct
movements between smaller ports through the use of modern sea-going barges
capable of operating on both coastal routes and inland waterways. MOC has
begun efforts to rationalize traffic flows, and as part of the proposed Ningbo
Port Project, a study of cargo and shipping movements in the mid-eastern
region will be undertaken.
2.10      Efforts are under way to improve the productivity of port opera-
tions, Recently, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian have each retained consul-
tants to review their operations, identify weaknesses and recommend improve-
ments. At the ports of Ningbo, Xiamen and Shanghai, the Bank has similarly
mounted major reviews of operations and maintenance, and has agreed with these
ports on action plans to improve performance within a reasonable time frame.
The problems with productivity in China's ports, however, have less to do with
poor operational practices, and are more related to the lack of adequate
specialized facilities. As a result bulk cargoes are often being handled
inefficiently at break-bulk facilities. Container handling capacity is well
below the potential for containerized cargo, and little attention has been
given to achieving productivity improvements through cargo unitization. There
is a clear need to improve the availability of specialized bulk handling
facilities and to increase the level of cargo unitization for break-bulk
cargoes.
2.11      Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth
productivity levels for general cargo often being as low as 502 of that



7
achievable with unitized cargo handling. Whereas in foreign trade some
progress has been made through containerization, in the domestic trade little
has been achieved to date. Palletization of break-bulk cargo and through
movement of pallets are feasible and cost-effective means for increasing
unitization of domestic break-bulk cargo, and savings would result both from
improved productivity and from reductions in cargo damage and loss.  The
problems to be overcome however are both technological and institutional, with
the latter being perhaps the more critical. MOC has initiated efforts to
introduce through pallet concepts with a pilot scheme to be implemented
between Guangdong Province and Hainan Island. Lessons learned there,
especially concerning the organization of through transport movements, will
benefit not only the introduction of through pallets in the domestic trades,
but also the through movement of containers in foreign trade. It must, how-
ever, be emphasized that many of the initiatives needed are beyond the power
of the ports: for instance the need for tariff reform (para. 2.18), and the
coordination of other entities, such as freight forwarders, involved in the
through movement of cargo.
2.12      Inadequate rail and road links in a number of the ports hinder the
smooth flow of cargo through the ports, -ause congestion in port storage
facilities, and increase costs to shippers. The proper interfacing of
different transportation modes is an aspect of port development which is now
receiving the urgent attention of MOC; however, only road connections are
within MOC's own jurisdiction, while railways are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Railways (MR).  MR is itself facing a serious shortage of
capacity, and the coordination of its own priority projects with those of MOC
is important.
2.13      Each major port has its own maintenance works and port equipment is
kept serviceable, although much of the equipment suffers frequent breakdowns
because of age. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation at the
estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Some of the
dredging may be excessive and could be reduced through hydrographic work to
provide a better understanding of estuarine flows.
D. Investment Priorities and Technology
2.14      In the 7th FYP, Government proposes to invest over Y 10 billion in
the port subsector.  Major investments include 120 deep water berths and 80
smaller ones, which together with other improvements would increase deep-water
harbor capacity to 500 million tons by 1990, more than 50% above that in
1985. One of the Government's priorities for the 7th FYP is to update tech-
nology. For ports, this will involve in particular: (a) palletization and
containerization of break-bulk cargo; (b) specialized handling equipment for
bulk cargo, the majority of which is now mixed with general cargo hardling,
resulting in low efficiency; and (c) computerization of documentation flow and
management information.
E. Tariffs
2.15      The structure and level of port tariffs are determined jointly by
the HOC and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure was set up



- 8 -
in 1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade vessels) on the basis of a
somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to the different port services. The
structure also reflects all the distortions inherent in the prices of the dif-
ferent factor inputs. As a first step in rationalizing tariffs, the MOC has
agreed to undertake a port costing study with the assistance of the Bank
(para. 2.20).
2.16      There are two tariffs in China's ports, one for foreign trade and
another, lower one for domestic trade. In foreign trade, it is understood
that foreign ships pay thp published harbor dues and charges while Chinese
ships (COSCO) pay lower rates. About 80% of all Chinese cargo is carried in
vessels owned or operated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), which
is controlled directly by MOC. In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO
are little more than a transfer payment between two parts of MOC. Tariff
rates could be set for efficiency objectives, but instead they seem to reflect
the relative financial strengths of COSCO and the ports and their differer.
investment requirements. By contrast, rates for foreign vessels seem to be
set on the basis of what the market will bear.  A 40% increase was effected in
February 1985, but there was no increase in the lower rates charged for
domestic vessels.
2.17      There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship waiting time, but these charges are paid
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been sign-
ing despatch agreements with ship operators gua Anteeing a certain turn around
time, with demurrage charges payable by the port if the time is exceeded or
premiums payable by the ship if it is handled faster. Usually the premiums
far exceed the demurrage charges.
2.18      Tariff reform is necessary both to assure the future financial
health of the ports and to ensure that port tariffs provide incentives for
efficient utilization of port assets. In many instances the present tariff
structure is inefficient on both counts. For instance, the relative prices
for handling break-bulk cargo, palletized cargo ard container cargo do not
reflect costs and actually discourage shippers from the introduction of more
efficient unitized cargo handling technology. Also, relatively low port
storage charges encourage shippers to over-utilize port storage facilities
thereby causing congestion in the ports. Therefore, in approaching port
tariff reform it is important to focus not only on the level of tariffs but
also on the structure.
2.19      Existing tax agreements between the ports and the Ministry of
Finance are due to expire in 1990, and future tax and tariff policies are
presently under review. In order to establish new tax and tariff policies
which will ensure both the financial health of the ports and the efficient
utilization of port facilities, there is an immediate need to improve the
information available on port operations and finances. In a number of areas,
the information systems now in place are inadequate. Ports have an
insufficient awareness of the cost of providing specific services and the
adequacy of depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover future
liabilities. Further, in view of the elimination of grant financing and the



large investments planned for China's ports (to accommodate increased trade
flows and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), future
financial liabilities of the ports are likely to increase rapidly. For the
above reasons, it is now espe_ially important for the Government and port
managers to pay special attention to costing port operations, managing their
finances, and assuring the long term viability of investments.
2.20      To address the need for an accurate and uniform system of costing at
the ports, the Bank has undertaken discussions with MOC on measures to improve
management information systems. Terms of reference for developing a Port
Costing and Management Information System (PCMIS) were discussed and agreed
with MOC, which will be responsible for system development (Annex 5). This
effort is to be funded by a grant from the Japanese Government. After the
system has been developed under MOC's auspices, it will be tried on a pilot
basis at selected ports before adoption at all ports.
F. The Role of the Bank
2.21      The Bank has supported, and will continue to support, the
Covernment's objective of expanding capacity and improving productivity in the
ports. The first lending operation in the subsector (Three Ports Project,
Ln. 2207-CHA) financed additional container handling capacity in Shanghai,
Huangpu and Tianjin and a coal terminal at Huangpu.  The second (Tianjin Port
Project, Ln. 2689-CHA) is financing the construction of eleven additional
berths at Tianjin for timber, construction materials and general cargo.  The
third, Huangpu Port Project (Ln. 2877/Cr. 1845), finances the construction of
five additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu port for coal, iron ore,
bulk fertilizer and general cargo. The fourth, Dalian Port Project
(Ln.2907/Cr.1875), finances the construction of a new terminal at Dayao Bay
for container and break-bulk cargo.
2.22      Earlier Bank port projects supported management systems improvement
with project components addressing computer development, technical studies,
training, and containerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also
been instrumental in developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation
of investment projects, and in updating various aspects of port operations. A
study component in the project will help determine the most economic pattern
of development for the various ports in mid-eastern China, including, in
particular, Shanghai and Ningbo.
G. Experience in Past Lending
2.23      Construction of the Three Ports Project (for Shanghai, Tianjin and
Huangpu) was completed one year later than envisaged at appraisal. There was
a considerable foreign exchange cost saving under the project as a result of
bids being lower than expected, and $55 million of the original loan of $124
million was cancelled. The project was problem free. For Shanghai, this
project was limited to providing equipment for two container berths. The
Tianjin Port Project ($130 million) was approved in April 1986.
Implementation is on schedule. Loan Agreements on the Huangpu Port Project
and the Dalian Port Project were signed recently, and implementation is on
schedule.



- 10 -
2.24      A number of studies in the port and shipping subsectors have been
initiated under previous Bank projects. These include a containerization
study which was completed by the Comprehensive Transport Research Institute in
1985. Recent investments in container facilities have benefited from the
insights provided by this effort. Studies included under ongoing port
projects include an "Intermodal Cargo Distribution Study" as part of the
Huangpu Port Project (in the south) and a similar effort to be undertaken in
the Dalian Port Project (in i'orth China).
III. THE PORT OF SHANGHAI
A. Location and Facilities
3.1       The Port of Shanghai, one of the ten largest ports in the world, is
the largest port in mainland China, and the primary gateway to Eastern and
Central China. Because of its location at the confluence of the Huangpu and
Yangtze Rivers, it allows sheltered water access to the dense network of
inland waterways in the region, a major factor in its attractiveness as a
transportation hub.
3.2       The port is situated on the banks of the lower Huangpu River, which
flows into the Changjiang (Yangtze River) at Wusong, about 90 km from the
mouth of the Changjiang. The entrance to the Huangpu river from the
Changjiang is protected by the Wusong groin to keep sediment away from the
entrance. The Changjiang entrance charnnel is subject to heavy siltation and
is maintained to a controlling depth of 7 meters below MLW by dredging. The
annual dredging volume is of the order of 20 million cubic meters.  The tides
are semi-diurnal with an average range of about 2.7 meters. These conditions
limit entry to the port to vessels with a maximum draft of 9.5 meters.
Vessels with a greater draft have to be lightened at the Luhashan anchorage at
the Changjiang estuary entrance. Lightening takes place by means of an
anchored 100,000 dwt bulk carrier equipped with ship unloaders/loaders.
3.3       The Shanghai Harbor Bureau (SHB) owns 102 berths, 50 of which have a
depth alongside of 8 to 10.5 meters. The berths, totalling over 14 km in
length, are located along both banks of the Huangpu river, all within the
Shanghai urban area. The city of Shanghai surrounds the port on both sides of
the river, thus severely constraining any expansion of the port at its present
location. The berths are operated by 12 "handling companies" (stevedoring
districts) and a passenger terminal company. In addition, SHB operates a
large number of mooring buoys in the Huangpu river, many of which are used for
mid-stream lightering operations.
3.4       With the exception of District 7, which specializes in bulk coal
handling, the districts handle a variety of cargo types and may be considered
multipurpose terminals. Of the 102 berths, 20 are specially equipped for dry
bulk handling and four are equipped to handle containers. The remaining
berths are used for semi-dry bulk, break-bulk general cargo and passenger
operations. Twenty of the berths date back to the 1920-40 period and re in
poor condition. Some 30 berths would need major upgrading to be operationally
adequate.



- 11 -
3.5       The port employs a great variety of equipment from very old to quite
modern ones and of many different makes. Modetn, high capacity ship
unloaders, fast conveyors and stacker-reclaimers may service one berth, while
the neighbor;.g berth may have small cranes, short, sectional conveyors, and a
very small storage area equipped with outdated machinery. The port is
planning gradually to phase out older, inefficient equipment but is hampered
in this effort by antiquated depreciation policies for equipmsnt and a general
reluctance to write off obsolete equipment.
3.6       The port has about 1,400,000 m2 of storage space, of which some
370,000 m2 is covered.  Much of this  lpace is in poor condition.  The average
storage area availability of 14,000 m per berth is inadequate ror efficient
cargo operations. Unfortunately, the port's location in the built-up urban
area of Shanghai precludes enlargement of existing storage areas.
B. Hinterland
3.7       Geographically the hinterland of the port includes the provinces of
Anhui, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Zhejiang and the municipality of
Shanghai. This area accounts for some 38% of China's industrial and
agricultural output, 25% of its population, but only 10% of its land area.
However, a small area within 200 km from the port accounts for over 90% of the
port's traffic and the Shanghai Municipality alone for 70%. This is the
port's real economic hinterland.
3.8       Some 70% of cargo moving to and from the hinterland uses water
transport, either the inland canals or the Changjiang. The major transport
corridors to the larger hinterland are the Changjiang, the Shanghai-Hangzhou
corridor in Zhejiang province, and the Shanghai-Changzhou corridor in Jiangsu
province. The latter two corridors are served by road and rail as well as by
barge.
3.9       Both the railway and highway in these corridors are, however,
congested and their connections with the port are very inadequate. Of the 12
port districts, only 3 districts on the West Bank have rail connection.
Access by road also is poor because most port traffic must transit city
streets and, while over half the port's cargo is handled on the East Bank of
the Huangpu river, cross river traffic is restricted to a single tunnel and a
number of ferry crossings. Truck traffic, particularly to and from berths on
the East Bank, is subject to substantial delays. Construction of additional
fixed river crossings now underway and planned will alleviate the trucks delay
problem somewhat. However, road and rail access can only become efficient as
the port gradually moves out of the city, as envisioned in the port's master
plan.
C. Traffic
3.10      Total traffic handled by the port of Shanghai increased from
55 million tons in 1976 to 128 million tons in 1987, an average annual growth
of over 8Z. Traffic handled by SHB in that year amounted to some 100 million
tons, while 28 million tons were handled by cargo user terminals. In addi-
tion, SHB handled about 13.0 million passengers in that year. Coal accounted



- 12 -
for 38% of the port's total cargo. Other bulk cargo such as petroleum (9%),
iron ore (9%) and grain (6%) were significant elements in port trarfic.
General cargo amounted to some 14.5 million tons (11%), including 224,000 TEU
of containerized cargo. About 70% of the total cargo was inbound and 80% was
domestic cargo.
3.11      Total Shanghai port traffic is projected to increase Lo a total of
142 million tons by 1990 and 197 million tons by the year 2000. Of this, SHB
expects to handle 113 million tons and 165 million tons in 1990 and 2000
respectively, an average increase of 4.0% p.a. This forecast takes into
account anticipated traffic development in the neighboring ports of Ningbo,
Nantong and Zhangjiagang. Coal, ores, construction materials and general
cargo traffic are expected to grow faster than the average rate. Ceneral
cargo in containers is projected to grow very rapidly, at an average annual
rate of more than 15% from the 1987 volume of 2.2 million tons. Details are
given in Table 3.1.
D. Operations
3.12      Operations at the port of Shanghai are characterized by the pre-
domir.ance of bulk operations, with coal accounting for almost 40% of all cargo
handled. Other operational characteristics of the port are the limitation on
vessel size (maximum draft 9.5 m) and the large proportion of cargo (70%)
moving to and from the hinterland by water transport. Port operations are
hampered by insufficient ship berthing and cargo storage capacity, inadequate
rail and road connections and obsolete cargo handling equipment at many
terminals.  In spite of these conditions, the port has achieved very high
rates of throughput per berth, albeit at the cost of excessive vessel and
cargo delays and, at times, significant traffic diversion. Berth occupancy
factors are 80 to 90% and ship time in port averages 3.4 days per vessel
overall and 10.3 days for foreign trade vessels.
3.13      In cooperation with a Bank mission of port specialists that visited
the port in October 1987, SHB has identified a number of measures to be taken
to improve the flow of cargo through the port. Many ef these measures are
procedural and operational in character and require *oint action by SHB and
port-related government and other agencies and enterprises. As a result, they
will take time to design and implement. Longer term measures will be pursued
under the review of the Master Plan by a panel of experts, agreed to be
undertaken as part of the project (see Annex 3 for Terms of Reference). A
number of short-term measures, which are under SHB's control, have been agreed
and also form part of the project (see Annex 4 on Proposed Action Plan).
E. Environment
3.14      The port and city of Shanghai have developed together along the
banks of 2he Huangpu river. Today, the Municipality of Shanghai covers some
61,100 km and has a total yopulation of 12 million. The "built-up" area of
the City covers some 150 kma and has a population of over 6 million. Port
facilities are located in the city on both banks of the Huangpu river, up to
its confluence with the Changjian, and occupy 14 km of waterfront. A review
of the environmental protection program of SHB by Bank consultants in October



- 13 -
1987 and March 1988 showed that the port administration is sensitive to the
need to minimize the adverse environmental impact of its operations and has an
adequate program in place. The contribution by the port to the environmental
problems of Shanghai are very small in relation to those of~ industry, power
and households. The Huangpu river, which serves as the main source of
drinking water for Shanghai, is heavily polluted since it serves also as a
drain for a substantial part of the City's industrial and human waste: it
receives about one million cubic meters of waste water daily from the 12
million residents and 9,000 factories in the city. Major improvements in
waste water disposal are under way as part of a Bank-financed sewerage project
(Ln. 2794/Cr. 1779-CH).
3.15      The port contributes marginally to this pollution, mainly through
accidental oil spills and spillage of coal and other bulk cargo (fertilizer);
these are most likely to occur during mid-stream cargo operations. Port
management is conscious of pollution and safety requirements and has taken a
number of steps to protect the environment from its activities. Areas in
which improvements are needed have been discussed with SHB and appropriate
actions have been included in the agreed Action Plan (Annex 4).
F. Management and Organization
3.16      The port of Shanghai has a two-tier organizational structure:  SHB
which incorporates all central functions organized as departments, and a group
of port-owned operating units organized as corporations or companies (see
charts).  Since 1986, SHB, which is administratively responsible for the
operation and development of the port, has been under the dual jurisdiction of
Shanghai Municipality and the Ministry of Communications (MOC). Prior to
1986, it was a local unit of MOC. SHB's new charter, approved by Shanghai
Municipality, was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. SHB is now
charged with implementing a policy of financial self-sufficiency and must
support both its operations and investments from internal cash generation.
SHB employs a total of some 54,000 staff, of whom 1,200 are engineers,
technicians, and around 9,000 are managers and administrative stafi.
(a) Shanghai Harbor Bureau
3.17      SHB is responsible for the management and operation of port-related
facilities, and for the planning, design and construction of port facilities.
It manages all common user wharves and docks, buoys, anchorages and other
facilities engaged in serving the transportation of passengers and goods. It
is charged with the collection of various harbor, construction, service, and
transportation fees, and enforcement of laws and regulations affecting the
port, which are not under the control of the Harbor Superintendency.  SHB is
responsible for coordirating its development planning with the Master
Development Plan of thie Municipality of Shanghai and the government's five-
year and annual operating plans.



- 14 -
(b) Port Districts and Corporations
3.18      The individual enterprises (including districts), which make up the
second tier of the port organization, replicate most of the organizational
activities of SHB, and are usually organized into four departments and
supporting divisions. The relationship between the districts and SHB is
defined in contracts which determine, inter alia, allocations of cargo,
distribution of district level profits, and productivity targets.
(c) Shanghai Harbor Superintendency
3.19      The Shanghai Harbor Superintendency (SHS), a department of MOC, is
responsible for ship movements, ship safety and channel maintenance, and is
organized along these principal functions. SHS has a total staff of 3,000, of
whom 1,700 are assigned to channel maintenance, and the remainder are engaged
in ship movement and harbor traffic control. On average, there are some 6,000
vessels in the harbor on any day. The ship movement control system is managed
by five control stations linked by telephone, while communi%.ations with ships
are carried out by radio telephone. SHS has jurisdiction over ship movements
along the East China coast (23°N to 350N) and maintains all navigational aids
in this area.
(d) Quality Control Commission
3.20      A quality control commission has been set up under SHB, charged with
setting performance standards and targets. The work of the commission is
divided into six categories: operational decision making; production-
dispatching; technical assurance; capital construction development; training
and services; and personnel motivation. After setting targets, the commission
has to obtain approval from the staff and workers' congress, an elected body,
before submitting the targets to the Port Director. During the year,
information on performance is fed back and targets are revised every six
months.
(e)  Four Port Commission
3.21      The four major regional ports--Shanghai, Ningbo, Nantong and
Zhangjiagang--have established a commission to coordinate cargo allocation and
future port development. The commission is organized under the auspices of
the Shanghai Economic Zone Planning Office.
G. Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Audit
3.22      The long-term development plan of the port of Shanghai is prepared
by SEB and submitted to the MOC and the State Planning Commission (SPC) for
approval. Since decentralization in 1986 when it came under the jurisdiction
of Shanghai Municipality, the port's development projects need the approval of
the Municipality also. It is not the intention of the Municipality to
exercise more control over the port but to ensure that the port's development
fits into the city's Master Plan and also to support the port's development,
for example, through the provision of access roads. SHB prepares the annual
budget which is then submitted for approval to Shanghai Municipality.



- 15 -
3.23      SHB operates an accrual-based accounting system and follows
accounting procedures laid down by the MOF. Its chart of accounts and the
form of its financial statement (income statement and balance sheet) are as
prescribed by MOC for the ports. Consolidated statements are prepared
annually for SHB and its subordinate enterprises and, with the addition of a
funds flow statement, these will be acceptable to the Bank for t'-. purposes of
financial reporting.
3,24      SHE's capital construction accounts for new construction are kept
separately from those of the subordinate operating enterprises. Replacement
of assets is also not included in the fixed assets accounts of the operating
enterprises. The source of funds for capital construction and for purchase of
equipment are the following:
-    Self-support fund (from SHB surpluses),
-    Special funds (from government),
-    World Baik loans,
-    Local loans (from construction bank), and
-    Japanese loans (through China Investment and Trust Co.).
The loans are used on a current account basis and are shown only in the
capital construction accounts.
3.25      On completion of a project. the assets together with the
corresponding loan and interest du-ing construction, if any, are transferred
to the operating enterprise's accoants. No profit or loss is made on the
construction of physical facilities or the purchase of equipment.
3.26      Besides the internal audit procedures applied by the port and the
subordinate enterprises, external audit of SHB was done till 1986 by the State
Audit Administration (SAA). Since decentralization, the audit of the port's
accounts has been carried out by the Auditing Bureau of the Shanghai
Municipality (under the guidance of the State Audit Administration). This is
acceptable to the Bank as an independent external auditor. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from SHB that it will submit no later than six months
after the end of each financial year: (i) its audited financial statements to
the Bank covering all its subordinate enterprises, and (ii) audited accounts
of the project expenditures.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1       The objectives of the proposed project are to help the port of
Shanghai increase its cargo handling capacity and efficiency in the short-term
and lay the basis for a sound long-term strategy for the port to serve the
large and growing transportation needs of its hinterland. The project would
help increase cargo handling capacity and efficiency by (a) providing equip-
ment for two general purpose terminals (Baoshan and Guangang) and a coal
terminal (Zhujiamen) now under construction, together with the equipment
needed to operate them, and (b) rehabilitating, equipping and expanding the



- 16 -
capacity of the Hinsheng grain ter-minal. Most importantly, it would help lay
the basis for a sound long-term strategy for the future development of port
facilities at Shanghai through the carrying out of a cumprehensive review by a
panel of experts of the Master Plan for the port of Shanghai recently
completed by SHB. (Annex 1 contains a list of documents available in the
Project File.)
4.2       For the last sevl-.ral years, the Shanghai Harbor Bureau has been
working on the preparation of a master plan for the loneg-tern development of
the port. A master plan document entitled "Ceneral LayouL Projection of the
Port of Shanghai" dated February 1988 was made available to thle Bank at the
time of project appraisal. The general thrust of the physicai development,
i.e. away from the center of the city and the Huangpu river toward the
Changjiang and Hangzhou Bay, had been discussed with previous Bank missions
and endorsed by the Bank. In view, however, of the magnitude and far-reaching
consequences for the future of Shanghai and its economic hinterland of the
investment decisions to be made, it was agreed that the Master Plan would be
reviewed by a panel of experts to be established and chaired jointly by the
Bank and the Shanghai Harbor Bureau. Terms of Reference for this review were
agreed during appraisal and are attacied as Annex 3. The review is expected
to provide the basis for further financial assistance from the Bank in the
development of the port of Shanghai.
B. Description of Main Project Items
4.3       The proposed project consists of:
(a) the construction of a multi-purpose terminal at Baoshan, consisting
of eight berths, three of which would be designed to handle
containers;
(b) the construction of an eight-berth general cargo terminal at
Guangang;
(c)  the construction of two coal handling berths at Zhujiamen;
(d) the reconstruction and rehabilitation of four berths axt the Minsheng
grain terminal;
(e) the construction of an 80,000-ton capacity grain silo;
(f) the acquisition of cargo handling equipment for (a), (b), (c) and
(e) above, including container cranes for the Baoshan terminal and
bulk coal and grain handling equipment for the Znujiamen and
Minsheng terminals, respectively;
(g) the carrying out of a study to develop a port costing asid management
information system to enable China's ports to monitor -os_s atsd
introduce a more rational, cost-based tariff structure (para. 2.20
and Annex 5);



- 17 -
(h) the carrying out of a review by a panel of experts of the Master
Plan prepared by SHB under terms of reference agreed between SHB and
the Bank (Annex 3); and
Ci) the carrying out of a number of measures designed to improve the
efficiency and safety of the port, according to a Plan of Action
agreed between SHB and the Bank (Annex 4).
4.4       The Baoshan terminal will be located 25 km from the city of Shanghai
on the south bank of the Changjiang, 4 km west of its confluence with the
Huangpu river, The total wharf length will be 1,408 m divided into six berths
for ocean-going ships (includng three for handling container ships), and two
for handling river barges, smaller boats and vessels. The depth of water
would vary from 4 m to 9.4 m. The terminal will have a storage area of
202,700 square meters, about one half of it for containers.
4.5       The Guangang terminal will be located 18 km upstream of the city on
the Huangpu river.  Thz total length of berth for rcean-going ships will be
1,450 m, with a cargo storage area of 224,000 square meters, in addition to
which 1,070 m of wharf length is to be provided for river barges. The
terminal will handle ocean-going general cargo ships as well as river barges.
The Zhujiamen coal terminal will be situated in Pudong at the lower reaches of
the Huangpu river 13 km from the center of the city. The terminal will be 303
m long:  the unloading berth will be 208 m long and the loading berth 95 m
long, with two storage yards of 30,000 m2 each.  The water depth will be 10 m
and the terminal will handle 4 million tons of coal each year.
4.6       The four-berth grain terminal at Minsheng is located on the east
bank about 21 km from the Wuson entrance to the Shanghai harbor. The existing
dilapidated facilities will be torn down and reconstructed to include four new
berths, storage yards and an 80,000-ton capacity grain silo. The water depth
will be 10 m with a total berth length of 73s m.  Of the four berths, one will
hendle bagged rice, one bagged sugar and the other two grain in bulk. The
total capacity of the terminal will be 5.3 million tons.
4.7       The principal element in the agreed plan of action is the review of
the port's master plan by a panel of experts constituted by SHB with Bank
agreement. The panel began work in late September 1988 and is expected to
complete its work in September 1989. The plan of action also includes a
number of measures to improve operations, maintena-lce and the envircnment.
The proposed training program will provide training to managers, technicians
and workers in modern port operating techniques that will be necessary to
operate efficiently the new facilities to be leveloped at Baoshan, Guangang,
Zhujiamen and Minsheng under the project.
C. Ecology and Environment
4.8       The project will not adversely affect the existing ecology of the
port of Shanghai and its environs. The designs of all four terminals
incorporate features to reduce the level of pollution now associated with
similar operations. In Guangang, which is upstream and close to the source of
water supply for the city, the design includes features for the treatment of



- 18 -
the waste water that would be generdaed by the terminal which would render the
effluent harmless. At Minsheng, the new grain handlir.g facilities will
greatly reduce the dust and noise pollution associated with the current
operations. At Zhujiamen, elaborate provisions have been incorporated in the
design of the coal handling facilities to keep coal dust pollution to a
minimum, while allowing the closing down of an antiquated, coal dust
generating operation at the No. 2 terminal. At negotiat'ons, understanding
was reached with SHB that all environmental measures incorporated in the
project designs will be impLemented as proposed.
D. Cost Estimates
4.9       The total project cost is estinmated a. Y 1,002.06 million, with a
direct and indirect foreign exchange component of Y 661.39 million, or
US$173.41 million. Project cost estimates are detailed in Tables 4.1-4.5 and
are summarized below:
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES /a
(July 1988 Prices)
Foreign   % of
as % of   Total
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign   Total   Total    Project
--- (RMB Y million) ---    ---------- (US$ million) ---------   Cost
Civil works         301.85    464.96   766.81   81.58    125.66    207.24    61             78
Equipment            26.19    142.93   169.12    7.08         38.63     45.71    89         18
Subtotal          328.04    607.89   935.93   88.66    164.29    252.95    66             96
Tech. assistance
and training        2.18      10.06    12.24    0.59        2.72       3.31    82          1
Base Cost           330.22    617.95   948.17   89.25    167.01    256.26    66             97
Physical
contingency         2.13       4.43      6.56    0.58        1.20       1.77    68         1
Price contingency    8.32       39.01    47.33    1.10         5.20       6.31    82         2
Subtotal           10.45      43.44    53.89    1.68        6.40       8.08    79          3
Total             340.67    661.39 1,002.06   90.93    173.41    264.35    66            100
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Implementation of the project has already begun and civil works for Baoshan,
Guangang and Zhujiamen are well advanced and cost estimates tor these are



- 19 -
Implementation of the project has already begun and civil works for r .han,
Guangang and Zhujiamen are well advanced and cost estimates for these ire
based on the prices of contracts already awarded. These contract prices are
not subject to variation. Estimates of the cost of civil works at Minsheng
are based on preliminary designs; a physical contingency of 10% has been
provided. Price contingencies have been allowed for the civil works at
Minsheng and for all equipment included in the project. Price contingencies
for local costs assume increases of 7% for 1989 and 6.5% per year Jor 1990 and
thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs assume annual increases of
3% for 1989 and 1990 and of 4% for 1991 and thereafter. The technical
assistance atid training will involve some 300 staff-months of specialists'
services. Equipment to be procured under the project (with estimated costs)
is listed in Tables 4.2-4.5.
E. Financing
4.10      Financing for the project will be provided as follows:
(in US$ million)
Total     Proposed       Second TCC    Govt/
Item                     Cost       Bank Loan    (Cr. 1664)    SHB          Other
Civil Works              210.91        2.00             -        208.91        -
Equipment                 50.13       43.70             -          6.43        -
Technical Assistance
and Training             3.31        0.70            0.72        1.03      0.86
Total               264.35       46.40           0.72      216.37       0.86
4.11      The Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China and
will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of civil works for the silo
at the Minsheng terminal, the procurement of equipment for all terminals under
the Project, and the provision of technical assistance and training. The
foreign costs of the panel of experts to review the Master Plan will be met
from the Second Technical Cooperation Credit (Cr. 1664-CH), and those for the
study of port costing and management information system will be financed by a
grant from the Japanese Government. The remaining foreign costs and all local
costs would be financed by the Government and SHB. The proceeds of the loan
will be onlent to SHB, in accordance with GOC's established policy for on-
lending to enterprises in the ports subsector, at 6.2% for 20 years, with a
grace period of five years. Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 20 -
F. Status of Preparation
4.12      Civil works at the Baoshan, Guangang and Zhujiamen terminals are
underway. Construction of the Baoshan terminal began in July 1986, the
Zhujiamen terminal in October 1986, and the Guangang terminal in July 1987.
Work at the Zhujiamen terminal is scheduled for completion by December 1988,
and at Baoshan and Guangang by December 1990. The design of improvements for
the Minsheng terminal is being undertaken by SHB, and construction is eAP'yted
to begin in October 1989 and to be completed by March 1992. The silo at the
Minsheng terminal will, however, be operational by December,1991.
4.13      Specifications for cargo handling equipment and bidding documents
for their procurement are being prepared by SHB. Bid documents for the
procurement of cargo handling equipment are expected to be available by
November 1988.
G. Implementation
4.14      Implementation of the project elements pertaining to Shanghai port
is the responsibility of SHB, under the overall supervision of the MOC Capital
Construction Department. MOC will be responsible for carrying out the study
for developing the framework for a port costing and management information
system, and an assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. SHB
will be assisted by the China International Engineeering Consulting
Corporation in the design of the grain silo at Minsheng and in supervision of
construction, with suitable exnatriate experts in key areas as required.
Civil works and equipment installation in respect of the grain silo at
Minsheng are scheduled for completion by December 1991. Cargo handling
equipment for Baoshan, Guangang and Zhujiamen is expected to be supplied in
the next two years. The schedule of implementation is shown in Annex 6. This
schedule is based on the assumption that the proposed loan will become
effective by February 1989; the loan closing date will be December 31, 1993.
4.15      The civil works contracts for the Baoshan, Guangang, Minsheng
(except for the silo) and Zhujiamen terminals were auarded through local
bidding procedures. The remaining civil works (Minsheng silo) will be
implemented by contract awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Equipment for the Minsheng terminal and other cargo handling equipment
also will be procured through ICB, except for the equipment listed in
Table 4.6 which will be purchased through LIB and local procurement
procedures. This latter equipment is required for the operation of the
terminals now under construction, where some berths will become operational
commencing from December 1988. In view of the time factor, SHE believes this
to be the most efficient and economical way of procuring such equipment, with
international contractors or suppliers allowed to participate in all domestic
procurement. Advanced contracting for some items had already been undertaken
and retroactive financing up to $4.2 million has been agreed upon for these
items following Bank review of the actual procedures used to ensure that Bank
guidelines had been complied with. Some small items to be agreed with the
Bank and amounting to less than US$200,000 per contract, and aggregating less
than US$1,000,000 would be procured under contracts awarded after evaluation



- 21 -
and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified supplers
under procedures acceptable to the Bank. All other contracts will be subject
to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation and proposed contract
awards.
H. Procurement
4.16      Procurement would be carried out as follows:
Item                            ICB          LCB         Other       Total Cost
----------------(US$ million)------------------
Civil works                       4.00       206.91         -            210.91
(2.00)      (-)                         (2.0)
Equipment                        43.34         3.01        3.78           50.13
(36.91)      (3.01)      (3.78)         (43.70)
Technical assistance
and training                     -            -          3.31            3.31
(0.70)          (0.70)
Total                       47.34       209.92        7.09          264.35
(38.91)      (3.01)      (4.48)         (46.40)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts which will be financed by the
proposed Bank loan. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies.
4.17      The civil works contract for the silo at the Minsheng terminal
estimated at $4.0 million will be awarded through ICB. The other civil works
contracts at the four terminals were awarded through local procedures and are
being financed entirely by SHB (US$206.91 million). Prequalification of
contractors will be carried out for the civil works contract to be awarded
under ICB. Qualifying domestic contractors for such works will receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 7.5% of the total contract cost.
4.18      Most of the equipment (US$43.34 million) will be procured through
ICB. Bids offering domestically manufactured goods and equipment will receive
a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Some small items to be agreed with the Bank and amounting
to not more than US$1.0 million would be procured under contracts awarded
after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items or groups
of items, estimated to cost not more than US$7.5 million in total (including
contingencies), may be procured on the basis of international bidding by
direct invitation and competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Equipment and materials which SHB



- 22 -
plans to procure following local bidding procedures (including prudent
shopping) will only be financed from the Bank loan if a review demonstrates
that procurement procedures used were in conformity with the Bank's
Guidelines. Consultants for the technical assistance and training components
will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use of
consultants.
I. Disbursement
4.19      Disbursement from the proceeds of the loan will cover:  (a) 100% of
the foreign costs of equipment or 100% of the local ex-factory costs, and 75Z
of the cost of other items procured locally; (b) 50% of the total costs of
civil works for the silo at Minsheng, and (c) 100% of the costs of technical
assistance and training. Disbursement will be made against full documentation
except for small contracts for equipment and materials worth less than
US$200,000 each, and technical assistance and training, which will be
disbursed against statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting statements for
the SOEs will be kept in the office of SHB and will be available for
inspection by Bank supervision missions. A schedule of estimated quarterly
disbursements is shown in Table 4.7; it follows the disbursement profile of
port projects in China. The loan closing date is December 31, 1993. A
special account with an authorized allocation of US$3.0 million (approximating
4 months' expenditures) will be set up to enable SHB to handle small
disbursements directly and promptly. To expedite project implementation, SHB
has made arrangements for purchasing about US$4.2 million of equipment and
steel structure. Retroactive financing of these items (from October 1, 1987)
is included in the loan.
J. Reporting
4.20      SHB will send the Bank a bi-annual progress report; a draft outline
for such reports is presented in Annex 7. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the outline of the progress report and the exact timing of its
submission to the Bank. Upon completion of the project, the Government and
SHB will prepare a project completion report for Bank review and approval.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.1       Based on the congestion currently being experienced in Shanghai
port's facilities and the forecast increase in future traffic, the economic
analysis primarily focuses on the benefits from relieving congestion in the
port. These benefits will derive principally from savings in ship and cargo
time in port. In addition, through the introduction of improved cargo
handling technology, the project will produce benefits by way of reduced cargo
handling costs, particularly on the two berths for handling grain imports at
Minsheng.
B. Port Facilities Expansion Plan



- 23 -
5.2       Under the Seventh Five Year Plan (7FYP), the port's capacity is to
be upgraded through:
(a) construction of 18 new berths at Baoshan, Guangang, and Zhujiamen,
with a total capacity of 10 million tons; and
(b) rehabilitation of 13 existing berths, to increase their capacity by
4.5 million tons.
The proposed project comprises the 18 new berths and the rehabilitation of
four berths, and the economic analysis is limited to these components of the
investments under the 7FYP.
5.3       Construction of the 18 new berths was begun in 1986, and will be
completed in 1990. The berths are expected to become operational in early
1991. Details on berth types and capacities are shown below:
SHANGHAI PORT:  7FYP NEW BERTH CONSTRUCTION
Number of   Type of             Capacity per berth
District           Berths      Berth                 (per annum)
Boashan                   1         Container          52,000 TEUs
1        Timber             440,000 tons
4        Multipurpose       250,000 tons
2        Barge berths             -
Zhujiamen                 1        Coal loading   )
1        Coal unloading )  2,200,000 tons
Cuangang                  8        Multipurpose        250,000 tons
Minsheng                  1         Bulk grain
unloading    )
1        Bulk grain         3,300,000 tons
loading      )
1        Bagged rice        1,200,000 tons
1        Bagged sugar       800,000 tons
The capacity estimates are generally based on about 90% berth occupancy, which
would be above the economically optimal capacity when ship waiting costs are
taken into account.
C. Future Traffic
5.4       The proposed project will provide facilities to handle break-bulk,
container, timber, coal, and foodgrain traffic. The volume of cargo handled
by SHB is projected to grow at only 4% p.a., from 100 million tons in 1987 to
165 million tons in the year 2000. This reflects a deliberate government



- 24 -
policy to divert cargo from Shanghai to other ports in the region in order to
relieve the serious congestion in the port facilities at Shanghai. Coal
traffic is projected to grow at only 3.0% p.a. and timber at 2.1% p.a.
However, break-bulk traffic is projected to grow at 7.8% p.a. and
containerized traffic at 15% p.a. Grain traffic is expected to grow only
modestly, at around 1% p.a. Details of the traffic forecasts involved in the
economic evaluation are shown in Table 5.1 and summarized below:
.HAHCHAI PORT TRAFFIC FORECAST
(million tons)
Average
1987    1990    1995    2000   Growth
(X p.a.)
Total Cargo                         100.0   103.0   121.0   137.0        4.0
of which:
Coal                           39.0    40.0    40.0    55.2         3.0
Timber                          4.3      5.1      5.3     5.5       2.1
Break-bulk                     14.5    29.4    32.0    34.2         7.8
Container                       2.5      4.6      8.3    12.0      15.0
Foodgrains                      5.7      5.6      5.9     6.4       1.0
D. Impact on Operations
5.5       With the exception of container facilities, Shanghai port will face
severe congestion in all of its facilities by the early 1990s without the
investments planned under this project. The container facilities will begin
to experience heavy congestion from the mid-1990s.
5.6       With the project, congestion in break-bulk, container and timber
berths is unlikely to occur until the late 1990s. Coal facilities, however,
will continue to face congestion, even with the additional berth, though the
extent of congestion will be less. The rehabilitated and improved grain
handling facilities will significantly reduce the cost of grain handling,
while eliminating loss and damage in handling. The table below summarizes the
impact of the project on port congestion in Shanghai:
PROJECT IMPACT ON PORT CONGESTION -
YEAR IN WHICH 90% BERTH UTILIZATION OCCURS
Break-bulk     Container        Coal       Timber
Without Project          1987            1990            1989        1989
With Project             1995            1995            1995        2000



- 25 -
Operational parameters used in the economic evaluation are given in Tables
5.2(a) to 5.2(e).
E. Costs and Benefits
Project Costs
5.7       For this analysis, all inputs and outputs have been evaluated in
constant July 1988 economic prices. Financial cost estimates were converted
to economic costs by "shadow" pricing major cost components and by applying
aggregate conversion factors estimated in previous Bank studies. Price
contingencies, taxes and duties are excluded. For traded goods, c.i.f. prices
of imports and f.o.b. prices of exports were used in estimating the cost of
material and equipment, with adjustments for the cost of inland
transportation. The official exchange rate in March 1988 was used to convert
foreign currencies to Yuan. Conversion factors for various cost categories
have been estimated in two ways:
(a) For major items such as wharf construction, handling equipment and
reclamation and consolidation, by separately "shadow" pricing each
cost component; and
(b) for minor items such as utilities, auxiliary buildings and ancillary
facilities, by applying aggregate conversion factors estimated in
previous Bank studies.
Conversion factors for major items are close to one; the overall for the
project is 1.05. The factors derived for the various cost items have been
applied to the table of annual project expenditures to obtain the stveam of
project economic costs (Table 5.3).
Project Benefits
5.8       The proposed project will yield quantifiable benefits in the form of
savings in cargo handling costs, ship time, and cargo time (Table 5.4). In
the case of foodgrains, there would also be savings in the form of reduction
in loss and damage. In addition, there will be benefits from reduced
environmental pollution, particularly in the case of coal and grain handling,
which are not quantified.
5.9       Savings in Cargo Handling Cost.  Some savings are expected from
handling general cargo over the new berths, compared with existing berths, but
these will he relatively small. However, without the project, the only way to
handle general cargo traffic in excess of available berth capacity would be
through more costly lightering. SHB estimates lightering costs to be 3 to 4
times normal handling costs. Detailed estimates of handling cost savings are
shown in Table 5.5. Lightering has been assumed for cargo tonnage in excess
of berth capacity at 95X occupancy, at a cost three times that of normal
handling. Substantial savings in the cost of handling grain at Minsheng are
expected.



- 26 -
5.10      Savings in handling costs have been converted to economic benefits
by "shadow" pricing the main cost components of normal handling and of
lightering. Conversion factors of 1.05 for berth handling and 1.1 for
lightering were used. These factors were estimated in a previous B ik study
for the Tianjin Port Project.
5.11      Savings in Ship Time.  These include both reductions in ship time
waiting for berth and at berth due to improved cargo handling. Estimates of
ship waiting time with and without the project are shown in Tables 5.4 (a)-
(e). Ship costs in port are based on the ship cost model developed by the
Bank, updated to reflect recent world market prices. The annualized ship
resale value plus operating costs have been used to calculate project
benefits. The annual resale value of ships has been assumed to reflect the
presently depressed state of the shipping industry; it gives a slightly lower
rate of return than the annualized replacement value of ships.
5.12      Savings in Cargo Time.  Savings in ship time apply also to cargo:
the benefit is interest saved on the value of cargo. For domestic cargo, the
marginal source of working capital would be loans from PBC at 6.5-7.5%
interest. For foreign cargo, the higher foreign exchange working capital
needed would require more foreign borrowing, and it is assumed that this would
be at China's marginal cost of capital of around 12%. Roughly 80% of all
cargo passing through Shanghai is in domestic trade. Interest savings have,
therefore, been calculated assuming'an average rate of interest of 8.0X p.a.
5.13      Total proiect benefits for the items discussed abo e are presented
by year in Table 5.6. The major part of project benefits would be in ship
time savings. These would accrue first to ship owners and could be passed on
to cargo owners.  As the vast majority of ships calling at Shanghai are either
Chinese owned (COSCO) or Chinese operated, it is expected that 90% of the
project benefits will accrue to China directly.
F.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
5.14      Table 5.7 (a)-(e) set out the rate of return calculations for the
various project components; Table 5.7 (f) shows the rate of return on the
entire project. The "base case" rate of return is 18% for the project as a
whole, with ERRs ranging from 15% for the break-bulk facilities at Baoshan to
33Z for the timber facilities, 21% for the coal berths, 15% for container
berths, and 30% for the grain facilities at Minsheng. The sensitivity of the
economic returns and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project to variations
in costs and benefits is summarized as follows:



- 27
NPV (@ 12%
ERR           discount rate
(Y million)
Base case                                          18.2                414
151 increase in cost                              15.5                 375
151 reduction in benefits                         15.0                 313
15Z increase in cost combined
with 15 reduction in benefits                  12.4                 273
1-year project delay                              15.2                 378
5.15      The only foreseeable risk in the project is that it may be delayed
in the course of construction. On the basis of preparations already made by
SHB and its past reco:.d, this risk is not considered to be a serious one.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Results
6.1       SHB's financial results for 1984-87 are shown in the Table 6.1; the
saiient points are suimmarized below.
1984     1985       1986       1987
Net revenue (Y million) /a               402.8    547.1      601.3      627.9
Operating profit (Y million)             234.0    344.7      349.9      343.9
Net profit after taxes (Y million)        22.9      44.6     255.5      234,6
Operating ratio                           42.0      37.0      42.0       45.0
Return on assets employed (Z) /b            -       45.0      42.0       38.0
/a   Excluding taxes
7i   At historical costs
6.2       Tariff rates for foreign trade ships in all Chinese ports were
increased in 1985 and SHB's net revenue and operating profit imoroved as a
result. In 1986 and 1987, it deteriorated slightly because of a small change
in the traffic pattern in favor of the less profitable domestic traffic.
Otherwise, the growth of earnings was driven mainly by traffic volume, while
operating costs have been carefully contcolled, rising during the last three
years by little more than the rate of inflation. Unit costs of handling at
Shanghai are among the lowest of the major Chinese ports. The iump in net



- 28 -
profit in 1986 was a function of the change in SHB's tax liability, which went
down that year as part of the Government's policy of decentralization,
including shifting the major responsibility for financing new investments to
SHB.
B. Present Financial Position
6.3       At the end of 1987, SHB's financial condition was very sound.
Current assets substantially exceeded current liabilities, with almost half of
current assets in the form of cash. The salient points of the balance sheet
(Table 6.2) are as follows:
Y million
Fixed assets                                         965
Current assets                                       301
Special fund assets                                  366
Total Assets                                  1,632
Equity                                               880
Long term debt                                        85
Current liaDilities                                  219
Special funds                                        448
Total Liabilities                             1,632
6.4       Long-term debt comprises only the Bank loan (Loan 2207) for the
Three Ports Project. The low (9X) debt content in total capitalization
reflects the Government policy prior to 1986, in which funding for capital
expenditure was provided by the Government exclusively in the form of grant.
In 1986, SHB was given considerable scope to finance capital expenditure from
retained earnings. The income tax and adjustment tax, to which its profit had
previously been subject, were cancelled. For the remainder of the 7th FYP,
SHB will pay a flat Y 72.5 million p.a. in lieu of income tax. The remainder
of its profit will be applied .o repayment of loans, special funds
contribution and capital expenditure.
C. Future Financial Performance
6.5       Financial projections suggest that SHB is unlikely to have to resort
to local loan funds to finan:e its planned capital expenditures--at least
through 1990, the last year for which detailed expenditure estimates are
available. For the period 1986-90 (7th FYP), SHB's financing plan is as
follows:



- 29
Y million
Internal funds                                      1,640.3
IBRD loan                                             216.1
Other grants and credits                                2.6
Total                                     1,859.0
Less:  Special Fund Expenditure                       583,2
Loan repayment                                   2.5
Working capital change                          19.4
Capital expenditure                                 1,253.9
6.6       Although the availability of adequate cash flow for capital
expenditure gives no cause for concern at this point, SHB nevertheless will
have to take responsibility for the direction of its own future financial
affairs to a much greater degree than in the past, when most of the profit was
handed over to the Government and capital expenditures were financed by
Government grants.  uuring negotiations, assurances -e obtained from SHB
that it will continue to conduct its financial affairs so as to cover all its
costs of operations (including depreciation) from operating revenue, and to
meet from internally generated funds all its financial obligations including
debt service, remittances to the Government, and allocation to special funds.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       D"ring loan negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the
Government of China that it will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to SHB
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.11).
7.2       During negotiations, understanding was reached with GOC that it will
utilize the proceeds of the Japanese grant to meet the foreign cost of the
development of a port costing and management information system and an
assurance was obtained that MOC will carry out the study in accordance with
terms of reference agreed with the Bank (para. 4.11).
7.3       Assurances were be obtained from SHB on the following:
(a)  review of the Master Plan of the port of Shanghai based on the
agreed Terms of Reference (para. 3.13);



- 30 -
(b) an Action Plan to improve the efficiency and environmental condition
of the port (para. 3.13);
(c) submission to the Bank of its audited financial statements covering
all its subordinate enterprises, including audited accounts of the
project expenditures, not later than six months after the end of
each financial year (para. 3.26);
(d) employment of expatriate experts acceptable to the Bank to assist in
the supervision of the construction of the grain silo (para. 4.7);
and
(e) satisfactory management of its finances (para. 6.6).
7.4       An understanding was reached with SHB that it will implement the
environmental measures incorporated in the design of the project (para. 4.8).
7.5       Approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council and the
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SHB, are
conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 4.11).
7.6       Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable basis
for providing financing of US$46.4 million equivalent for SHB as part of a
Bank loan of $76.4 million equivalent to the People's Republic of China for 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



-31-                           Annex i
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.   The Introduction of the Project of Boashan Stevedoring District.
2.   Brief Introduction of the Project of Shanghai Harbour Zhujiamen Coal
Terminal.
3.   Introduction of the Project of Guangang Handling District.
4.   The Report on Wharf Conditions in Minsheng Stevedoring District.
5.   Plan for the Reconstruction Project of Minsheng Stevedoring
Corporation.
6.   Explanation of the Additional Project of Building a New Silo at
Minsheng.
7.   Harbour Regulations of the Port of Shanghai.
8.   General Layout Projection of Port of Shanghai.



- 32 -                            ANNKX 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Training Program
1.             Shanghai Harbor Bureau (SHB) employs about 54,000 personnel.
Management constitutes about 15% (8,100); technicians and skilled workers make
up approximately another 35% (19,000). Management staff, technicians and
skilled workers are usually university, college or technical school graduates.
2.              SHB is responsible for the training of its staff.  Training is
provided through on-the-job training, by technical schools and colleges in
China and, to a lesser extent, at overseas institutions and ports. As the
port progresses towards more technologically based operations increased
training of its staff in more sophisticated port operation and management
techniques has become necessary. The training requirements, resulting from
the development of port terminals at Baoshan, Guangang, Zhujiamen and
Minsheng, have been estimated as follows:
General        Bulk
Container    purpose       handling      Total
Tnumber of personnel)
Management                        150         100            150         400
Technicians                       150         15C            100         400
Workers                           500       1,000            500       2,000
Services                          100         180            120         400
3,200
3.        Over the time span of the Project, training will be scheduled as under:
Number of personnel
1989                300
1990                800
1991                800
1992              1,300
3,200
4.            Whilst considerable training will be undertaken within China and in
traditional form, increasing use of institutions and ports overseas, especially
for the management grade, will be resorted to.  Equipment suppliers will provide
the necessary technical training in the use/operation and maintenance of
equipment, and stevedores will be trained on the job. Training at overseas ports
and institutions is estimated at 120 man months, made up of:
Management, 40 persons, one month each - 40 m/m;
Technicians, 60 persons, one month each - 60/m/m; and
Workers, 20 persons, one month each - 20 m/m.
The total cost of training under the Project is estimated at US$700,000, of which
the foreign cost is estimated at US$600,000.



-33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Expert Panel to be Established
by the World Bank and the Shanghai Harbor Bureau
to Review the Master Plan of Shanghai Port
Introduction
1.        The Port of Shanghai has embarked on an extensive program of
investments initiated under China's 7th Five Year Plan (FYP) and extending
to the 9th FYP (1995-2000). The program calls for upgrading 30 of the 98
existing berths and building approximately 60 additional berths.
Implementation of this program is planned on the following schedule:
Berth          New
Upgrading       Berths
7th Five Year Plan                        13            16
8th Five Year Plan                        12            20
9th Five Year Plan                        6             20
Under the 7th FYP, coy,struction of new facilities at Baoshan, Guangang and
Zhujiamen has been in.itiated and is expected to be completed by 1990. SHB is
now making economic, technical, engineering, etc. preparation and plans for
new berth construction to be carried out in the 8th and 9th Five-Year Plans.
2.        In order to guide and rationalize future investments, SHB has
prepared a Master Plan for the Development of Shanghai Port. The Master Plan
document was submitted to the World Bank for review in March 1988. A detailed
table of contents of the Master Plan document is attached. In discussions
between SHB and the World Bank, both parties agreed on the necessity to
arrange an expert panel to review the Master Plan so as to provide the basis
for further financial assistance from the World Bank to SHB, possibly in the
form of a sector loan.
3.        The Panel will be chaired jointly by the World Bank and the Shanghai
Harbor Bureau. It will have an Executive Secretary who will have the
authority and responsibility to coordinate the work of the panel members.
Continuity in the service of che panel members is vital and every effort will
be made to ensure it.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Scope of Responsibilities
4.        The Panel will review the master plan with a view to ensuring:  that
it is adequate for the foreseen needs of Shanghai Port to the year 2000 and
several years beyond; that it is well integrated with both the development
plan for the city of Shanghai and regional development plans; that the invest-
ments proposed are economically justified and are technically feasible; that
the plan is environmentally acceptable, and is responsive to the environmental
problems presently associated with the port; that institutional development
and port operational needs are adequately addressed in the plan; that the
increase in inland physical distribution capabilities is adequate to the
needs; and that the role and functions of the Port of Shanghai in the
international container trade are defined.
5.        The Panel will review the methodology and results of economic and
engineering investigations that have been carried out in support of the
plan. Where additional investigations are required, the Panel will prepare
terms of reference for such investigations, review study proposals, monitor
the technical aspects of studies, and review reports and recommendations. On
the basis of these reviews, the Panel will make specific recommendations on
any needed modifications to the Master Plan. In discharging its responsibil-
ities, the Panel will maintain close liaison with MOC, Shanghai Municipality,
and the Shanghai Economic Zone Planning Office.
Specific Areas to be Considered by the Panel
6.        In reviewing the Master Plan, the Panel will specifically consider
the following aspects:
(a) the traffic forecast to the year 2000 and several years beyond for
the Port of Shanghai and for the ports of Ningbo, Nantong and
Zhanjiagang to determine whether the forecasts for each port and for
port traffic in the region as a whole are coordinated and the
allocation of traffic among the ports is appropriate, and takes due
account of likely future changes in Asian shipping patterns and
vessel technology, including the penetration of containers and other
forms of cargo unitization for general cargo, liquid bulk, dry bulk
and refrigerated cargoes;
(b) the hinterland connections to the port by inland waterways, road and
rail transport to determine their adequacy and whether planned
investments in transport infrastructure in the region are well
coordinated with the port master plan;
(c)  land use by the port, in particular existing facilities in the city
center locations, to determine whether the eventual distribution of
port facilities in and around the city is the most appropriate use
of land, and whether the potential handling capacities of the
existing terminals and opportunities to carry out future port
activities outside of congested urban areas have been fully examined
in the master plan;



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(d) environmental impact of the port on the city of Shanghai, to
determine whether current problems associated with the port such as
air and water pollution, traffic congestion, safety hazards of
conducting dangerous cargo operation in close proximity to populated
areas, have been adequately addressed in the master plan;
(e) operational efficiency of current and proposed port facilities, in
particular whether scale economies available from specialization of
cargo terminals for the handling of specific bulk comiodities are
taken full advantage of in the master plan, and whether such
economies would allow either a reduction in tha total number of new
berths envisaged or the phasing out of some of the old berths
located in busy dowrtown areas, or both;
(f) the organizational structure of tne port and the institutional
development necessary to support its future activities, in
particular the need to implement improved management information
systems, cargo documentation and control procedures, customs
facilitation, operational documentation and control procedures,
operational planning procedures, maintenance procedures and
financial controls;
(g) manpower development of managerial, technical and other staff to
determine whether adequate attention has been paid to training
requirements in the mAster plan;
(h) the technical and engineering feasibility of proposed facilities and
the adequacy of background studies that have been conducted in
support of the master plan including alternative site locations,
oceanographic and hydrographic studies, model tests, cost/benefit
analyses, layouts, approaches, type of structures and the foundation
and soil consolidation conditions at proposed sites. Special
attertion is to be given to the controlling depths for navigation as
affec ed by siltation, current and wave action and the associated
dredging requirements, and the subjects for further studies shall be
identified; and
(i) strategic planning for the port: is it a continuous process based
on a clear definition of the future role of the port in the regional
economy and the priorities placed on servicing specific industries
and commodity movements, are investment plans consistent with the
strategic objectives of the port, and are they properly conceived in
terms of economic feasibility and the financial viability of the
port.
Fields of Expertise to be Represented on the Panel
7.        The Panel shall include experts in the following fields:
(a) port planning and operations;



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b) coastal and hydraulic engineering, soil mechanics and port
engineering;
(c)  regional development, urban planning and transport economics;
(d) environmental engineering;
(e) port finances, management information and controls; and
(f) training.
Administration and Reporting
8.        Panel members will travel to China twice for discussions and for
onsite investigations. It is estimated that the visits will each be of about
four weeks' duration; each visit will be preceded by approximately a two-week
preparation period, and will be followed by approximately a four-week report
writing period. During the first visit the Panel will conduct an initial
review of the master plan, will identify areas requiring further investiga-
tion, and will prepare the necessary TORs for such investigations. The second
visit will be scheduled for three to six months later, during which time the
additional investigations recommended will be completed by SHB as far as
possible. In the second visit the Panel will review the results of the above
investigations and any modifications to the master plan which have been
proposed in the interim. The Panel will then present its final report
endorsed by the two co-chairmen to SHE and the World Bank. Only two formal
reports will be required. Both should be in the nature of summary reports,
with the exact format and scope to be decided by the Panel.
9.        The Panel will keep SHB, the World Bank and the Government of China
informed in writing of matters arising from its duties which it considers
important. SHB will arrange for the distribution of such memoranda internally
and to the Government as appropriate.
Schedule
10.       The exact scheduling of the Panel's work and the specific reports
and memoranda will be left to the Panel. The following key dates are provided
for guidance only:
(a)  Establishment of the Panel                           September 1988
(b) Commencement of Panel's work in Washington
together with co-Chairmen and Chinese
counterparts                                         September 1988
(c)  First field visit by Panel                           October 1988
(d)  First report                                         December 1988
(e)  Completion of additional investigations              April 1988
(f)  Second field visit                                   June 1989
(g)  Final report                                         September 18, 1989



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Undertakings of SHB
11.       SHB undertakes to provide the following:
(a)  a suite of offices to accommodate the Panel members during their
visits to China;
(b) English translations of the master plan document and any other
supporting documents relevant to the work of the Panel;
(c) interpreters to accompany Panel members during site visits, meetings
and interviews; and
(d) appropriate Chinese counterpart staff.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment
Contents of Master Plan to be Reviewed by the Expert
Panel Established by the World Bank and the Shanghai Harbor Bureau
Chapter 1.   Guidelines
1.1 Hinterland Development including the City of Shanghai and the
Yangtse River Valley
1.2 Technical Upgrading and Maximum Utilization of Existing Terminals
Inside the Huangpu River
1.3 Development of New Harbor Areas
1.4 Expansion and Improvement of Passenger Terminals
1.5 Use of Modern Technology
1.6 Improvement of Employees' Welfare
Chapter 2.   Geography and Natural Conditions
2.1 Meteorology
2.2 Hydrology
2.3 Topography
2.4 Geology
2.5 Earthquake Risk
Chapter 3.   Existing Conditions
3.1 Introduction to the Port
3.2 Physical Facilities
3.3 Problems Faced by the Port
Chapter 4.   Forecast of Commodity Traffic
Chapter 5.   Shipping and Ship Type Forecast
Chapter 6.   Requirements on Navigation Channel Planning
Chapter 7.   Utilization Plan of the Shoreline
7.1 Mainland Shoreline
7.2 Shoreline of Neighboring Islands
Chapter 8.   Port Layout Plan
8.1 Allocation of Traffic and Handling Capacity
8.2 Technical Improvements to Existing Terminals
8.3 Construction of New Harbor Areas
8.4 Hinterland Physical Distribution Plan
8.5 Introduction of New Technology
Chapter 9.   Construction Programs
Chapter 10.  Problems and Recommendations



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Proposed Action Plan
A.   Master Plan Review
1.   The Action Plan agreed between SHB and the Bank has as its main focus a
comprehensive review of the Master Plan for the Port of Shanghai,
prepared by SHB. This review, by a panel of experts, jointly chaired by
the Bank and SHB, is expected to provide the basis for further financial
assistance from the Bank (see TOR, Annex 2). (The panel was set up in
Sept. 1988 and will complete its work in Sept. 1989).
2.   A number of more immediate operational and maintenance improvements and
improvements in the storage of dangerous goods, identified during
previous Bank missions, have also been agreed and are listed below.
These will be implemented by December 1989.
B. Operational Improvements
1.   To relieve congestion in the storage facilities of various stevedoring
districts, SHB should:
(a) increase the trucking capacity of the Shanghai Harbor Cargo
Evacuation Company;
(b) increase cargo handling capacity at the Jiangwan inland cargo
terminal by providing additional cargo handling equipment,
especially for containers; and
(c) increase further the punitive storage rent for cargo lying in the
districts' warehouses/storage areas after the first 10 days.
2.   SHB should request the Shanghai Public Security Bureau to issue
additional truck licenses to the Shanghai Harbor Cargo Evacuation
Company.
3.   Cargo receiving and dispatching should operate on the same schedule as
berth operations to reduce congestion in sheds and storage areas.
4.   Ship delays:  Causes of ship delays after completion of service should be
identified and appropriate action should be taken to remove them and thus
expedite ship departures.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
C.  Kaintenance Improvements
1.   Civil Works:  Review the repair criteria and implement needed reductions
in degradation thresholds for the initiation of repair work.
2.   Equipment:  Retire obsolete equipment with a view to reducing spares and
inventory requirements. Implement a strict preventive maintenance
program and a spares and supplies inventory management system. Pay
particular attention to high wear-and-tear items, such as conveyor belts
and wire ropes, and examire the need to substitute imported for domestic
items which experience fr-quent failures.
D. Dangerous Goods Storage
1.   Store low flashpdint cargo outdoors.
2. Apply a progreseively increasing storage rent for dangerous goods to have
them moved out quickly and to winimize quantity in storage in the port.
3. Large posters should indicate nature of material stored under cover.
4. For toxic material spill, an emergency clean-up plan must be prepared.
5.   Fzfghting Per-sonnel anA nnrte  workers must be regularly trained in
appropriate response to incidents involving different types of dangerous
cargo.



- 41-                         AiNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
DEVELOPMENT OF A PORT COSTING AND
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I.       ACKGROUND
1.       One of the most important issues facing the management of China's
ports is how the ports are going to adapt to changing circumstances brought
about by the economic reforms.  While the reforms were first initiated in
China in 1979, the ports sector has only recently begun to be impacted, after
the Ministry of Communications (MOC) started the process of port
decentralization in 1986. Key ingredients of the reforms in the port sector
will be self-financing of port operations and investments from internal cash
generation, and increasing competition among ports for cargo.  Prior to the
reforms, MOC set tariffs, allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major
investments, covered any deficits, and received all of the surpluses
generated by the ports.   Presently, only a portion of the total cargo is
allocated, tariffs for unallocated cargo are allowed to be set competitively
within a narrow band, and profits are retained by the ports subject to taxes
(which arrangements tend to be ad hoc, with usually fixed lump sum tax
payments, based s5 the needs of individual ports to retain surpluses).  In
the future, the government plans to progressively reduce controlled
allocation of traffic, reform tariffs and taxation policies, and eliminate
grant financing of investments.
2.       Tariff reform is necessary not only to assure the future financial
health of the ports, but it is also equally important to ensure that port
tariffs provide the right incentives for efficient utilization of port
assets.  In many instances the present price structure is inefficient.  For
instance the relative prices for handling break-bulk cargo, palletized cargo
and container cargo do not reflect costs and actually discourage shippers
from introduction of more efficient unitized cargo handling technology.
Also, relatively low port storage charges encourage shippers to over-ut'lize
port storage facilities thereby causing congestion in the ports. Therefore,
in approaching port tariff reform it is important to focus not only on the
level of tariffs but also on the structure, i.e. the relative prices
established by the tariff structure.
3.       Existing tax agreements between the ports and the Ministry of
Finance are due to expire in 1990, and future tax and tariff policies are
presently under review.   In order to establish new tax and tariff policies
which will ensure both the financial health of the ports and the efficient
utilization of all port facilities, there is an immediate need to improve the
information available on port operations and finances. In a number of areas,
the information systems now in place are inadequate.   Ports have an
insufficient awareness of the cost of providing specific services and the
adequacy of depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover future
liabilities. Further, in view of the elimination of grant financing and the
large investments planned for China's ports (to accommodate increased trade



- 42 -                       ANNEX 5
Page -2
flows and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), future
financial liabilities of the ports are likely to increase rapidly.  For the
above reasons, it is now essential to provide the government and port
managers with effective tools for costing port operations, managing their
finances, and for assuring the long term viability of investments.
4.       Development and implementation of a Port Costing and Management
Information System (PCMIS) will enable HOC, MOF and the ports to better
assess the financial health of ports, and to better evaluate alternative
taxation and pricing policies.   PCMIS will also allow port management to
exercise greater control over costs by isolating the costs of various port
operations, equipment, facilities and organizational units, and monitoring
cost variances from planned or budgeted allocations of funds.
II.      PCMIS DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
5.       PCMIS development and implementation will address the following
objectives:
(a) Provide China's ports with a computer based commercial
accounting system which captures fully the capital and
operating costs of the port, disaggregated to a sufficiently
detailed set of cost centers to allow effective management
control over costs;
(b)  Establish a computer based maagement information system which
provides port management with key operational productivity data
on a regular basis in order to allow increased management
control over efficiency in port operations;
(L)  Establish methods for allocating costs to various revenue
categories to calculate both average costs and marginal costs
in order to allow comparison of the cost structure with the
price (or tariff) structure, thereby enabling development of
efficient pricing strategies; and
(d) Provide the capability to make financial projections in the
form of pro-forma financial statements based on varying
scenarios of future traffic, tariff structures, costs,
investments and tax policies, in order to analyze future
financial viability of ports and their subsidiary enterprines.
III.     PCMIS DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
6.       PCMIS will be developed and implemented in four phases as described
below.
Phase I - System Definition Studv:
This study will establish the requirements for PCMIS.   It will be
carried out by a small team of Chinese and foreign experts over a three month
period which will include field visits to three ports in China and meetings
with MOC, MOF and SPC officials.   The output of Phase I will be the study
report and an Invitation for Proposals (IFP) for the design and development
of PCMIS.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Phase II - Evaluation of AIternative Systems:
Based on the IFP produced in Phase I, proposals will be invited
internationally for the design and development of PCMIS.  Three management
information systems for ports will be selected for final evaluation. A team
of experts from China will visit ports using these systems and will assess
the applicability of each system to the needs of China's port sector. One of
the proposals submitted will be selected for award of a contract covering
Phase III of PCMIS development.
Phase III - System Design and Develooment:
The contractor selected in Phase II will design and develop the
computer programs and associated manuals for PCMIS implementation in
collaboration with a local institution (see para. 12).
Phase IV - Training and Implementation at Four Selected Ports:
HOC will designate four ports for initial implementation of PCMIS.
Port personnel will be trained in the use of PCMIS software, and the system
will be installed on computer systems at each port.  Further, port managers
will also need to be trained in modern management techniques in order to
enable them to fully utilize the potential of PCMIS.
7.       These Terms of Reference (TOR) set out tihe responsibilities, scope
of work, staffing and organizational arrangements for the execution of the
System Definition Study and preparation of the IFP (Phase I above).
IV.      SCOPE OF WORK (FOR PHASE I)
8.       The System Definition Study should cover the following:
(a) Review of management (MIS), operating (OIS) and financial (FIS)
information and port costing systems presently in use in four
typical ports in China;
(b) Port organization structures and financial and other reporting
requirements, including external relationships with local and
central government agencies, and internal relationships between
port enterprises and headquarters;
(c) The necessary level of disaggregation in terms of cost and
revenue centers to allow effective management control over
costs and for costing specific port services;
(d) Means by which data will be collected, and associated data
recording formats;
(e)  Information needs of management (MIS, OIS & FIS) and the
standard reports to be generated periodically by PCMIS; and
(f) Organizational and manpower requirements, including training,
for implementation and maintenance of PCMIS.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 4
9.       Based on the results of the above Systems Definition Study, the
study team will prepare a detailed IFP, to which the study report itself will
be attached. The IFP will invite proposals internationally for PCMIS design
and development (Phase III above).
V.       PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
10.      A Task Force will be established by the Finance Bureau of MOC to
guide and oversee  PCMIS development.   The Task Force will  include
representatives of MOC, MOF, the State Pricing Bureau, the World Bank and
senior Chinese port executives with experience in the fields of financial
management, port operations, and information systems, as well as a Chinese
expert in microeconomics and public utility pricing.  In addition, the Task
Force will include an international expert on the economic theory of port
pricing. Specific responsibilities of the Task Force would include reviewing
the reports produced during PCMIS development, evaluation of alternative
proposed systems (Phase II), and designating the ports for initial
implementation of PCMIS.
11.      A Study Team for the Phase I System Definition Study will be
established and will report to the Task Force.  The Study Team will consist
of three or four international specialists in the fields of port financial
management, port operations, computer information systems and the economics
of port pricing.  Three or four local counterpart staff will work with the
experts during Phase I.   Man-power requirements for the Phase I System
Definition Study are described below.
Man-Months Reauired
Local Staff    Foreign Staff
Financial Management                          2               2
Port Economics                                2               2
Port Operations                               2               2
Information Systems                           2               2
8              8
VI.      COLLABORATION WITH LOCAL INSTITUTIONS
12.      With a view to maximizing the institutional development possibilities
of this project, a local institution wili be selected to collaborate closely
with PCMIS development efforts.   In the longer term,  :his institution will
undertake further development of PCMIS to serve emerging needs of China's port
sector for advanced information systems. Potential collaborating institutions
will be identified by the Task Force and an institution will be selected in
the early stages of the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
CHINA
PORT COSTING AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS STUDY
ESTIMATED BUDGET
USS
Phase I
Port Management/Information Systems Specialist   3 mos @ $10,000        30,000
Port Management/Financial Systems                 3 mos @ $10,000       30,000
Economist                                         2 mos @ $10,000       20,000
Port Operations Specialist                        2 mos @ $10,000       20,000
Airfares:  6 @ $2,750                                                    16,500
Per Diem:  5 x 30 @ $130                                                19,500
Secretarial Assistance                                                    5,000
Communications, Miscellaneous                                             1,000
142,000
Phase TI
Airfares:  10 Chinese Technical Specialists @ $2,750                     27,500
Per Diem:  10 x 30 days @ $150                                          45,000
72,500
Phase III
Senior Information Systems Specialist            12 mos @ $10,000      120,000
Systems Analyst/Programmer                       48 mos @ $ 5,000      240,000
Documentation Specialist                          6 mos @ $ 5,000       30,000
Technical Translator                              12 mos @ $ 5,000      60,000
Airfares:  6 x $2,750                                                    16,500
Per Diem:  6 x 20 x $100                                                12,000
478,500
Phase IV
Port Management Specialist                        4 mos @ $10,000       30,000
Financial Analyst                                 3 mos @ $10,000       30,000
Information Systems Specialist                    3 mos @ $10,000       30,000
Airfares:  4 @ $2,750                                                   11,000
Per Diem:  3 persons x 90 days @ $50                                    13,500
114,500
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE PHASE I - IV                                      52,500
GRAND TOTAL:  PHASE I - IV                                             860.000



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
I.   Baoshan Terminal
A.   Completion of civil works:
Berths No. 5-8                                         December 1988
Berths No. 1-4                                         December 1990
B.   Equipment:
1.  Completion of teneer documents                        April 1988
2.  Invitation of bids                                 November 1988
3.  Receipt of bids                                     January 1989
4.  Evaluation of bids                                    April 1989
5.  Award of contracts                                      July 1989
6.  Completion of delivery                             December 1990
II. Zhujiamen Terminal
A.   Completion of civil works                               December 1988
B.   Equipment:
1.  Completion of tender documents                        April 1988
2.  Invitation of bids                                 November 1988
3.  Receipt of bids                                     January 1989
4.  Evaluation of bids                                    March 1989
5.  Award of contracts                                      May 1989
6.  Completion of delivery                   ,         December 1989
III. Guangang Terminal
A.   Completion of civil works                               December 1990
B.   Equipment:
1.  Completion of tender documents                        April 1988
2.  Invitation of bids                                 November 1988
3.  Receipt of bids                                     Jaunary 1989
4.  Evaluation of bids                                     April 1989
5.  Award of contracts                                      July 1989
6.  Completion of delivery                                March 1991



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
IV. Minsheng Terminal
A.   Civil works:
1.  Completion of tender documents                          June 1989
2.  Invitation of bids                                   October 1989
3.  Receipt of bids                                     February 1990
4.  Evaluation of bids                                     April 1990
5.  Award of contracts                                      June 1990
6.  Completion of construction                          December 1991
B.   Equipment:
Same as for civil works.



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJL%.r
Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
1.        The purpose of these reports is to provide information on
significant events which occurred during the reporting period, together with
an evaluation of progress achieved and the prospects of future progress. To
this end, the information contained in the reports should cover at least the
following aspects of the project:
(a) physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b) a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of
the reporting period with the original forecast of progress at that
date;
(c) actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules, except that any such changes which would require prior
consultation with the Bank should be reported immediately and
subsequently included in the next report;
(d) other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost; and
(e) the expected dates of completion of the principal physical elements
of the project.
2.        Construction progress should be reported on all the main physical
components of the project as follows:
A.   Preparatory work
B.   Civil works
-    Wharf and causeways
-    Reclamation
-    Pavement
-    Utilities, railways, and roadways
-    Power supply
-    Telecommunications
C.   Supervision of construction
D.   Consultant's activities and effectiveness.
3.        Progress on procurement of the port and cargo handling equipment
should be mentioned with particular reference to the:



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
-    Bidding process,
-    Manufacturing/supply, and
-    Testing and operation.
4.        Information contained in the reports relating to the review of the
Master Plan and the development of the port and operational information system
should cover:
-    the selection of consultants,
-    the work of the consultants and
-    their effectiveness.
5.        Reports submitted to the Bank group should include project
expenditures and disbursements and a comparison of actuals with estimates, and
reasons for deviation, if any.
6.        Particulars of port traffic that is actually handled during the
reporting period, disaggregated by commodity, so that the appraisal estimates
and forecasts can be checked and updated, should be included in the reports.
Text of the Report
The text of the report should describe the work performed on each
major item during the reporting period, following the headings given above.
Where appropriate the text should include explanations of and comments the
foilowing.
(a)  Actual or expected material deviations from the original (or
amended) plan/design or implementation schedule.
(b)  Actual or expected difficulties or delays, any measures taken or
planned to correct them, and the probable effects on the
implementation schedule.
(c)  Expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the
project or the project as a whole.
(d)  Actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment.
Reasons for such delays should be given, and their possible effects
on the implementation schedule should be estimated.
(e)  Numbers in the work force including the Construction Management
Bureau, consultants and contractors.
(f)  Any actual or expected event or condition which may affect the cost
of the project.
(g)  Any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
Drawings
Drawings showing the plan and sections of the wharf and causeways
should be included.  Construction progress should be indicated on the drawings
by color or other markings.
Construction Schedule
A bar chart should show separately scheduled and actual progress on
each of the principal features. Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams, which may
present a more comprehensive picture of the schedule and progress than the
chart, may be used if necessary.



-   1-                                                                  Table 3.1
0.9 Wi,a114.9191-211811 9,2
-1910--  -4-    -96- -1111-----£907--   --£94---£4----  ----2034------
la   0.1  Total   L.   0.9  119.1   Is   0.2  719            la   09   Total    I7.   49   Iota2    I.    0.    1.9.1    Is    0.9  Total    to    ad5  Iota
£2""I             £2     2     22    0A        222         S6     223447         35    424   £2       0     I£2I    470     £     41£    49        0    92        ,242   09,241
N09£,c             94,674 C,3  22,341,904111W 9,475     11 21,17  2,42 £1,415  22,799 24.11£ £9,117  37,327 3,1214 £1,295 37,649 27,3  14,911  40,21   47,911 11,421  29,422  60,299 12,199  24,042
1.9,1            14,067  1.292 22,973 £9,222  6,4  21,207 22,067 £,0466 24,3224 264,47 £1,190  27.962413,4    11,29   29,1144  3,247 10,91, 44.122  44,49  11,421  44,141  $1,171 13,714  72,240
Opq,p                   0      £      £     0      9      1     4              £             £      2      0      £                     I       I£             I       I£     0      2      2
949.,q              £491      S1,494  1,992        2   9,92204              .    4,411 411   9  4,&             , ,1 I  1,412    ,90        2,290   4,170         4.27    5,121      0  5,729
km61,                 22£  ,21   9,07     229  9,407  2110.   402  2,9     24£1,22   ,22 4,2   6,    2,2                1.4£   2442   424    2,4    2.794    P4A  4,22  5.95       94u  4.25
10191             1,142  1,124  5,240  2.22£  1,9W  4,191 4,221  2,402 767  2,9034  2,474  0,429  7.4"  32,22   IC?"9   0,0         424   7,299  £4,544    444  £9,492  99,424    450  91,00
699,o                ,09    2 3,2I4M  IUM     227  2,914  7,411    71 1,    4,262 4,5"     43 ,266   ,23         a0. 4,41   0,424    07  4715    ' 99 1£22  0,220   9,69           £62  £9,04
km499,9             2.20    770  2,445  2,04   i.90  2,144  2,1410 2,222   4,422  2,294  2,4252,102  2,024  2,424   5,22    2,904  2,992   2,091   2,095  2,9001  1,131   2.924  2.22£   $.415
119.1  2299  9,49  4,40   0,5711,2117  ,1642  9.24£  2,204  1£,103 6,221  2,050  £1,491  l,40 7.12  £1,502  10,424  3,102  £3,722  1£,190 2.21£  94,400  £2,422 2,222  £1,142
Ea    Kt,.;., .1994,41
0 "               12    95      I      I9    £     £9    Is       29    is    £9       20      2      S                     9       I       I     9I      9       4      0      3
19.1     5,.     719  .4,4   4,19     91£  7,No 6,294   740     I,0114,1 I    ,1O    91.211, zi4p    46l   9,422  90.043    oil 11,227  £2.4     TV£  £2,444  14,90. 1,131  94,109
9     629 4427 9   242_3442              92      24240         0 92 129S24         M       49.6   ,542   VI    4027  712,1   4_y   122 4       M4     91  1090
44,73 is140140124l  290  29£I 4224442    7 449424    72   5   2   20 2n1224us1244200 I2I  421
191       2   7321242£        424940    249   406          9     242 64                      442 44n0 0 4  1Sb 24  02      02      15    90£      19£,979,14           £249,261. 1
F949,9                "I5      9       41 ,9       I 2,9I    224       4 I,4   2972             2,1091,46           0 1,6    2,92           202   2I,121      0 .1£        ,41   I  0  2.92£
1194              ,49    "97  2,999 2,49641,22  4,419  2,21    ,2    1.29   2,0,40402OO   24922142    42    ,99 7,2   1,                  425  5,247  1,         ,49  2,92   1490   5,402
F.o,g                 952   244   290    2£       32   244    £14   222      - 249    1£ £2    242   Ill   217    403    £24   249    222    £79   29               222     94    242    54
6000111               442   104   947   009   424  1,90        22 M  222   I,1 .119    277   1, 424  1,414    245   1,997   J,90      20   2,227   2,244   242  3,22    35,2       409  2,494
1T.1                740    24  1,4 040    1 429  1,424   0V£    23   1,340  1,220   469   9,740  1,42         440   2,442   2,940    714  2,422   2,022    7..  4,242   2,749    222 4,549
6995.                ,2  1.2        4£ 12    9,224        I1,27    999 2   1.40£    74£1    2     742 ,42         9 m 1.142    0i0      I    43   9,992       0   1,442   1,24      01,224
k094420                2479"6W70.929,0190 4224m   4442242954049424   940   454   02 142714   0326
1.9.1             1,2791   4002,029  1,4044     025,297  1,044   224   1,174    2 3 742    1,022  1,199   409   1,709        94   450   1,412   1,644    l14  1,127   1,22032.0 240
hletl              1,1217 44 .9,10  1,1215   4*. 1,615  1.11£    546   9.24£  1,214   542  1.14£  1,021   42£   1,499   0,247   444   1.22£   1,544        44 1,6I'll   1,599   022   1,4
99459               2,4M    £I"  2,01242,MU    24;  ,2724  l,Ifl           :AII 5,11 ,92 00   5.52   9,04       27II   2,299   2,407   479  I,2M    2,142    SW   2,0423  2.314    26   2,440
km642,              9,742  2,027  2,192  1,113 1,170  2,9117  1,216  1,217  2,242  1,422  2,9   2,M9  I,",9 I,lia   2.24£   9,024  1.612   2,029   1,014  1,094   3,290   1,9  I,02    0.49£
219,1  ,295  ,225  ,496  ,94   ,9110CU ,21,2442  1,911  4,279  7,040  2,424  4,224 2.24£  2,594   0,240   2.41  2.99£   ,5,01    3,796  I,2M    1,4    2.99£  2,414  0,S22
69409               2,4  .92£  4,671 2,47   2.l 6£044  4,06   2,14  ,1210 2,02  MM4  4,917  2.90£  2.904  .667   5,074   .2 3, 662 0v ,424  4,401£1,101   7,019 ,07 £w4,90
hull,,       1,4271,9.294           2   9,9n     2,10  1,292.2    4,227  1,412.4,244   2,9329,3 2,194394  5.732   Ills40         5,290 4.2   32211 4,090  7,002   4,940  4,99009,399
162.1             4,240  2,05 6,22   4,114 2,424  C,97   0,51   4,432019,4111,52  7,322 U019,6   0,70  4,940  12,06   7,22   4,74   £4,244    J 9.   f4t6  13,46   £2,714 11,32 22£,01
694949             60,529  3,1131612,22£2241  2,4   4,491C24,30 2,042  22,749124,44        39 242   24,01921,23  2,924  22.51   54,944  4,22   29,19 31,497  2.44£  54,30"  22,69   7,420  44,22
0660429            U,122 1,470 40,592 4,M4279,62222,4   02" 4292,30  62,795 46,47224J04   75,3996.232,467  24,4901 aC40,722,1944,0414  79,90524,406 £023750   .40,4229 £.24,424
total            41,701)20,52242,Z234,0,6622,413707,06441,14121,405  V7,74401,   072,402  97,70949,0624,373 £49,661   2,6101127,274 115,142 £97,112 30,407921,5999124,235 44 3 1,44t,660
[1. St   M           54,729 £1,740 22,871 27,414 £1,226 3'19,2224U £4,2234 47,907 3,007 £4,692 522.4906,16 £2,701  07,924  121   2414,2    020£2,14   120    2,215,201   C44,2
9424992064£49;           12     2      644  to       2    12             I      Is4   £2      I2     6      02      I2    if      £4      2     £4       II     2      £       £2     5      69
64.1 Swal ewe"9
fw,£p        9,40   2,479  71,241 2,445  1,444 19,521 64,224  2,427  £2,142 £2,466  2,742  10404  62,461 5,509  9244   £7,144  2,627 211,4£  £4,42   9,294 22.410  22,719  7,034  24,242
64.045,     62,04    Is90Ng"912,6  4,73 24,7  051,905  0,444  22,323 74,301 £1.46  2,212, 23 AM 9.3£  24.27£  0.6lw11,97   27,444  24144im12,4   22.22   24,34 £s=2.1    ,210
21.  4,0    .32470945£,2   223,n63      3 712,247  40,2443,931C £ 0.34,2427,945 £4,404  4t.95£  22,44  14,6   0   346.0   24,42  9,244  0024   42,42,42047
30 I00914,                                                                                                                                                                     426143
64991        2,942  2,42610  9  2,479  2,41   4,924  4,644  2.759   4.79 2,622  2,077   7.51210  3,942  2,s   7,442   $5.74  2,299  9,225  4.42£ ' 2 19 £1,402   7,610 4.42£  64,22
hllw,t,      2,741 4,044  7,574  3,014 4,491  7,14   ,04 3 ,9390ll    7,9m   5,612  4.997  £9,01  2,475 4.37  09,979  2.642  I,79    9.9    1,1I2  4,407  I92    4.734 7,1112  £4,412
24099      1.40£  72,3  12,46  2,4   7,144 £2,441  1,46  2,4491 £4,22    ,4  60,474U  £%4,002.1  £3,32 C 125 I44£   9,209  9.54£13,23  £1,1912 £6.46  22.3   £4,09y 4J£97    24,22
9.949.. 69444919994it
6169                                                                                                                  2.292  1,994  4,219  2,44  2,40   4,49    4,07   4,474   9,147
Lo.            422   223   42 9412 I"         4 22I   1,3791  140   1,044  1.995   949  20.41,22    90£II   2,207   6,90   1233   2,232  2,30442,0         4.642   5,515  ,6110  4,620
MO                                                                                                                   2,17   2,2M   5,442  4,412  2,943   I.4m    5.6  0.49£  11,424
Lo             422   024   412   29    42   0   2  1,079   70    940 1,992I.t       442  2.914  1,22     "95  024    2,426  1,194   2,9    .4 2,4   5,49    5,42    4,226  2,22    1,1W
9569        5,m   9,2341,24922,4072062                             7 24,227,47594,427  92,72920,23£7404  59,44  254.97 62,52   45,22   $24,244t,29   5154  47,04  £7,42   W0,=
La4         64,773  9,953224,4324,2041W0,22.5427,2211 10.3    3,2357 MI1W .423,574,20425.                362,0    9042,26,0   44 34  2,9 4,299  49,761 40,404164234  0,910
L ego.-.442636  £946.  0046  1104911INV0  duIOti,-42£9  hui.k£ 6,17t13, £4vMp00p                         011f-4l. 001  ffortlp-o2,I 341. fr 9s494r1p-g.45 doito      ll£, son49  0411.
4. Mt2Ji lwe 49. 6.
hum.u            6491i 0.0ow£9, It. h    3049.



rable 4.1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Project Cost: Summary
Y00(O                         USS0(O                 Loan        Loan as e of of           _
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign   Total    (USS000)   total base cost
Civil Works
Baoshan                130,000  194,997    324,997    35,135   52,702   87,837               -              -
Guangang               119,958  179,931    299,889    32,421   48,630   81,051               -              -
Zhujiamen               30,488   45,732       76,220)     1,240   12,361)  20,600            -              -
Minsheng                21,400   44,300       65,700      5,784   11,973   17,757        2,000             o.8
Suibtotal          301,846  464,960    766,806        B1,58t   125,665  207,245        2L,              (1.8
Equipment /a
Banshan                  2,590   55,241       57,831        7(30   14,930   15,630    14,510               5.5
Guangang                   771   30,673       31,440        210    8,290    8,500        7,210             2.7
Zhujiamen               22,829   16,017       38,846      6,170    4,329   10,499        4,280)            1.6
Minsheng                     -   40,996       40,996          -   11,080   11,080    15,300                5.8
Subtotal            26,190  142,927    169,117         1,0E)   38,629   45,709    41,300               15.6
Technical Assistance
and Training             2,183   10,U64       12,247        590    2,720    3,31U)         700             0.3
Total Base Cost   330,219  617,951    948,170    89,i250  167,014  256,264    44,000                   16.6
Physical contingency       2,130    4,430        6,560        578    1,197    1,775        1,197             0.5
Price contingency          8,321   39,009       47,330      1,108    5,199    6,307        1,203             0.5
GRAND TOTAL         340,670  661,390  1,002,060    90,936  173,410  264,346    46,400                  17.6
/a  Equipment financed by the loan are listed at Tables L.2 to 4.5.



- 53 -
Table 4.2
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Equipment for Baoshan Terminal (to be Financed by Bank Loan)
Cost Estimates (US$'000)
No.   Local   Foreign   Total   Loan
Container quay crane        1       300     3,000   3,300   3,000
Rubber-tired cranes         4       280     2,700   2,980   2,700
Container trucks           12                 600      600      600
Tractors                    8                 320      320      320
Forklifts (36t)             2                 640      640      640
Forklifts (25t)             6               1,560   1,560   1,560
Forklifts (16t)             2                 200      200      200
Forklifts (lOt)             2                 120      120      120
Forklifts (2.5t)           25                 500      500      500
Mobile cranes               4                 720      720      720
Weighing scale              2        20       140      160      140
Tugboat components /a                       3,410   3,410   3,410
Misc. cargo handling items                    600      600      600
Total                         600    14,510  15,110  14,510
/a Already ordered. To be retroactively financed.



- 54 -               Table 4.3
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Equipment for Guangang Terminal (to be Financed by Bank Loan)
Cost Estimates (US$'000)
No.   Local   Foreign   Total   Loan
Container crane            1                  370     370      370
Mobile crane (55t)          1                 400     400      400
Mobile cranes (28t)        3                  540     540      540
Multipurpose crane          1              2,500   2,500   2,500
Bulldozer/trimmers         2                   60      60       60
Steel structure /a         1       100       600      700     600
Forklifts (16t)             1                 100     100      100
Forklifts (lOt)            4                 240      240     240
Forklifts (6t)            10                  400     400      400
Forklifts (2.5t)           6                  150     150      150
Container trucks           9                  450     450      450
TracLui5                  1                  600      600      600
Measuring equipment   1 set                   200     200      200
Miscellaneous
equipment                                   600      600      600
Total                         100     7,210   7,310   7,210
/a Already ordered. To be retroactively financed.



- 55 -
Table 4.4
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Equipment for Zhujiamen Terminal (to be Financed by Bank Loan)
Cost Estimates (US$'000)
No.   Local   Foreign   Total   Loan
Bucket wheel unloader      1         -     2,500   2,500   2,500
Belt conveyor           641m         -       700      700     700
Stacker-reclaimer          1         -       900      900     900
Bulldozers /a              3         -       180      180     180
Total                                 4,280   4,280   4,280
/a Already ordered. To be retroactively financed.



-56 -
Table 4.5
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Equipment for Minsheng Terminal (to be Financed by Bank Loan)
Cost Estimates (US$'000)
No.   Local   Foreign   Total   Loan
Continuous ship
unloaders (1,OOOt/h)    2         -      6,000   6,000   6,000
Belt conveyors          590m        -      2,165   2,165   2,165
Weighing machines          2        -        300     300      300
Grain bagging devices      3        -        165     165      165
Grain elevators
(1,200t/h)               2        -      1,020   1,020   1,020
Magnetic metal remover    2         -         80      80       80
Pest control devices       2        -         70      70       70
Sugar weighing scales
(400t/h)                 2        -        220     220     220
Sugar bagging and
scales (100t/h)          5        -        450     450     450
Filter and duster          2        -        200     200      200
Sugar mixer                1        -         35      35       35
Electrical controls        -        -        750     750      750
Spare parts                -        -        545     545      545
Steel                      -        -      3,300   3,300   3,300
Total                          -    15,300  15,300  15,300



- 57-                              Table 4.6
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Eguipment to be Procured under Local Competitive Bidding
and Other Procedures
Estimated costs (US$'000)
Item                               No.           Local        Foreign        Total
Forklifts (2.5t) /a                 25               -            500           500
Steel structure (Guangang) /b        1             100            600           700
Stacker-reclaimer /a                 1               -            900          900
Belt conveyors /a                    -               -            700           700
R1-11dozers /b                       3               -            180           180
Tugboat components /b                                -          3,410        3,410
Weighing scales /a                   2              20            140           160
Total                                         120         6,430         6,550
/a   Local competitive bidding.
/b Already ordered. To be retroactively financed.



- 58 -
Table 4.7
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursements Schedule /a
Cumulative dis-
IBRD             Estimated cumula-         bursement profile
Years from        fiscal year        tive disbursements               for port
approval        and quarter         $ million         X        projects in China
Year 1
2nd half         03/31/89             3.25            7
06/30/89             8.35           18                18
Year 2
1st half        09/30/89             11.60           25
12/31/89            14.85           32                32
2nd half         03/31/90            18.56           40
06/30/90            22.27           48                48
Year 3
1st half        09/30/90             25.52           55
12/31/90            29.23           63                63
2nd half        03/31/91             32.48           70
06/30/91            35.26           76                76
Year 4
1st half        09/30/91             37.58           81
12/31/91            38.51           83                83
2nd half         03/31/92            40.83           88
06/30/92            43.15           93                93
Year 5
1st half        09/30/92             45.00           97
12/31/92            46.40          100               100
/a Loan effectiveness 03/01/89.



- 59 -
Table 5.1
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Traffic Handled by The Porti I
(1000 tons)
1985   1986   1987             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995                2000
Est. Dry Bulks:
Coal                                       34,327 37,827 39,840            49,125  51,189  53,339  55,590  57,915  60,347             75,365
Others                                     12,940 15,122 18,096            15,551  16,519  17,548  19,641  19,902  21,034             22,958
Subtotal                                 47,167 52,949 57,936           64,676  67,709  70,897  74,221  77,717  91,391              98,323
Est. Liquid Bulks                                 13     14      14              16       16       16      16       16       17              20
Est. containerized cargo (Loaded)             1,844  2,016  2,217             3,292   3,518   3,771   4,043   4,334   4,647               6,625
Est. 6eneral cargo:
Timber                                      5,259  3,413  2,999            4,705   4,753   4,901   4,850   4,899   4,949               5,403
Of which: Berth operation                 1,195    776    692            1,070   1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125               1,228
Mid-stream operation i_2       4,063  2,637  2,317             3,635   3,672   3,709   3,747   3,795   3,824              4,175
Break bulks                                33,462 39,317 36,835            40,518  41,669  42,951  44,067  45,318  46,605             54,429
Of which: Large berth operation          14,803 17,393 16,295           17,924  18,433  19,956  19,494  20,048  20,617              24,078
Seall berth operation 1_3    5.872  6,900  6,464               7,111   7,313   7,520   7,734   7,953   9,19               9,552
;id-streaa operation /_2    12,787 15,024 14,076              15,483  15,922  16,375  16,939  17,317  17,909             20,799
Subtotal                                 38,720 42,730 39,834           45,223  46,421  47,652  49,917  50,217  51,554              59,932
Total Traffic Handled by SPA               97,744 97,709 100001          113,197 117,663 122,326 127,197 132,284 137,599             164,900
=, -== ==ss = ==:             =-s==s=====ssz  Z-ssss-  ss===== Z.====== cm=zzz s           ======
Total container traffic (in  000 TEU'         194.4  201.6  221.7             393.8   422.2   452.6   495.2   520.2   557.6               795.0
Notes: 1. Excludes traffic handled at berths which are not included in the econoaic analysis.
2. Estimated based on available berth capacity.
3. iraffic handled at saaller berths %under 5iJO dot vessels,.
Sources: Shanghai Fort Authority and bank stafi.
Jun-BE



- 60 -
Table 5. 2 (a)
CHINH
SHAN6HAI PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Econoeic Evaluation
(Break Bulk Berths)
Existing       Existing          Proposed
mixed         break              mixed
use           bulk               use
berths         berths            berths
Berths (number)                                                   15               14               12
Cranes per berth Inueber)                                          5                3                2
Average crane productivity per hour ttons)                        35               22               57
Average working hours per day (hours)                             17               17               17
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)                       2,975           1,122             1,938
Berth operating days per year (days)                             320             320               320
Maximum berth utilization (i)                                     95              95                95
Maximus annual capacity per berth (l000 tons)                    904             341               589
Ship arrivals (scheduledlunscheduled)                      Unscheduled   Unscheduled        Unscheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                                       12,000          12,000            15,000i
Average shipment size (ton)                                    7,500           7,500             7,500
Cargo value (Yuan/ton)                                         1,800           1,800             1,800
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day,                    13,320          13,320            13,320
Unloadingiloading cost (Yuan/ton) / 1                           3.20            3.20              3.20
Notes:
li;   theoretical daily berth capacity   cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity   theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating days per year.
(Iiij maximum annual capacity per berth   theoretical annual berth capacity x maxinue berth utilization.
1 1. Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 95% berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightering at roughly three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
ii2. For lightering operations, throughput capacity is taken as 50% of normal berth throughput capacity.
Sources:  ihanghai Port Authority and BanK staff.
Jun-88



- 61 -
Table  5.2(b)
CHINA
SHAN6HAI PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
iContainer Berth)
Existing                         Proposed
Container                        Container
berths                            berth
Berths (number)                                                    4                                 1 J1I
Cranes per berth (number)                                      Il.S                                  I
Average crane productivity per hour (TEUs) 1)                     20                                25
Average working hours per day (hours)                           16.3                              16.3
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                         489 1(2                           408
Berth operating days per year (days)                             320                               320
Maximus berth utiliZation (I)                                     5b                                59
Maximus annual capacity per berth (OOO TEUs)                   78.2                              65.2
Ship arrivals (schedulediunscheduled)                        Scheduled                        Scheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                                        100   1l100
Average shipment size ITEU)                                       *                                7 AV
Cargo value (YuanlTEU)                                       20,000                             20000
Average daily ship cest in port (yuan/day)                   37,740                             37 740
Unloading/loading cost (YuanlTEU) !I4                         140.00                            140.00
Notes:
(il   theoretical daily berth capacity   cranes per berth x average crane productivity per tour
x average working hours per days.
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity   theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating lays ner Year.
(iii) maximum annual capacity per berth   theoretical annual berth capacity x maximam berth 'til..ation.
1f. One TEU   10.0l   tons.
/2. For lightering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 50X of normal berth throughput capacity.
13. Equivalent to 13,40(0 dwt per ship.
X4. Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handlirg. Ii cargo traffic exceeds 95% berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightering at roughly three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-88



62 -
Table 5.2(a)
CHINA
SHAN6HAI FORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(Tiaber Berth)
Existing         Proposed
timber           tiaDer
berths           berth
Berths (number)                                                                  4                1
Cranes per berth (number)                                                     1.25                2
Average crane productivity per hour (tons)                                      35               45
Average working hours per day (hoursl                                         16.3             16.3
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)                                       713            1,467
Berth operating days per year (days)                                           320              320
Maximum berth utilization (x)                                                   95               95
haximum annual capacity per berth ('000 tons)                                  217              446
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                                     Scheduled         Scheduled
Average ship size (DWI)                                                     17,000            9,000
Average shipment size (toni                                                 12,000            7,500
Cargo value (Yuan/ton)                                                         500              500
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                                  13,320           12,210
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/ton) itl                                         1.30             1,40
Notes:
(i)   theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
(ii) theoretical annual berth capacity z theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating days per year.
(iii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
ij. Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 95X berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightering at roughly three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
_2. For lightering operations, throughput capacity is taken as 50G  of normal berth throughput capacity.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-88



- 63 -
Table  5.2(d)
CHINA
SHANBHAI PORT PROJECT
Operational Paraseters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(Coal berth)
Existing Coal Berths
---------------------           Proposed
Without          Kith             Coal
Project        Project            berth
Berths (number)                                                  10               9                 2 1
Cranes per berth (number)                                      2.50            2.50                2
Average crane productivity per hour (tons)                      3b5             390              420
Average working hours per day (hours)                          17.0            17.0             17.0
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)                     15,513          16,575           14,280
Berth operating days per year (days)                            320 12          320              320
Maximum berth utilization (t)                                    95              95               95
Maximum annual capacity per berth (1000 tons)                 4,716           5,039            4,341
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                     Unscheduled   Unscheduled        Unscheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                                      10,000          10,000           21,000
Average shipment size (t"n)                                  10,000          10,000           21,000
Cargo value (Yuaniton)                                          110             110               110
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                  30,340           30,340           30,710
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/ton) / 3                          1.30            1.30             1.30
Notes:
i)   theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity   theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating days per year.
(iii) maximus annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth Capacity x maximue berth utilization.
E                 f 1. Exclude one additional smaller berth, which is for bargo loading basically.
;                 f 2. For lightering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 50s  of normal berth throughput capacity.
i 3. Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 955  berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightering at roughly three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-88



- 64 -
Table 5.2(e)
CHINA
S4ANBHAI FORT PROJECT
Operational Farameters Assumed for Econotic Evaluation
(Grain Berths!
Existing         Proposed
grain            grain
berths           berth
Berths (number)                                                                     2                2
Unloader per berth (number)                                                         3                3
Average unloader productivity per hour (tons)                                    200               480
Average working hours per day (hours)                                              17               17
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)                                      10,200            24,48(
berth operating days per year (days)                                             320               320
Maximum berth utilization (X)                                                     95                95
Maxinum annual capacity per berth (000 tons)                                  3,101             7,442
Ship arrivals (scheduledfunscheduled)                                      Unscheduled      Unscheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                                                       20,000            20,000
Average shipment size %ton)                                                   20,010            20,000
Cargo value (Yuan/ton)                                                           400               400
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                                    16,28O           .1,280
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/ton) !/I                                           4.uO              2.50
Notes:
i!   theoretical daily berth capacity   cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
tii)  theoretical annual berth capacity   theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating days per year.
{iiii maximu% annual capacity per berth   theoretical annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
!1. Figures in the table are the costs for noroal berth handling. If cargo traffic e4ceeds SS. berth
occu?ancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightermug at roughlv three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
'_2. For lightering operations, throughput capacity is taken as 501 of normal berth throughput capacity.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-B8



- 65 -
Table 5.3(a)
CHINA
SNANS1Ai PORT PROJECT
Econosic Project Cost
--------------F:ncial Cost----…------------ Conversion  -----Economic Cost----
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total  factor for  Local  Foreign   lotil
------- USS '000-------   ------- RlO  000---- local 1         …1       RHB '000------
A: Civil Iorks /2
Baoshan (6):
Timber (1)                  5,956    8,784   14,640   21,667   32,501   54,168      1.09   23,617   32,501   56,119
Container (1)                5,856    8,784   14,640   21,667   32,501   54,169     1.09   23,617   32,501   56,118
General cargo 14)           23,423   35,134   58,557   86,665  129,9S6  216,661     1.09   94,465  129,996  224,461
Subtotal                  35,135   52,702   97,937  130,000  194,997  324,997           141,699  194,998  336,697
6u4ngang- General cargo (8) 32,421   49,630   91,051  119,958  179,931  299,889      1.09  130,754  119,931  310,695
Ihujiamen- Coal (2)          8,240   12,360   20,600   30,4689  45,732   76,220      1.09   33,232   45,732   78,964
Ninsheng- Grain (2)           5,784   11,973   17,757   21,401   44,300   65,701     1.09   23,327   44,300  67,627
Total                    81,580  125,665  207,245  301,847  464,960  766,807           329,012  464,961  793,973
8: Equipment
Daosban 16):
Timber (1)                    159    3,644    3,803      589   13,483   14,071      1.18     694   13,483   14,177
Container (1)                  459    5,944    6,403    1,699  21,993   23,691      1.18    2,004   21,993   23,997
General cargo (4)               82    5,342    5,424     303   19,765   20,068      1.18     359   19,765   20,123
Subtotal                     700   14,930   15,630   2,589   55,241   57,930             3,056   55,241   58,297
6uangang- 6eneral cargo (9)    110   9,290    8,400       407   30,673   31,080      1.18     480   30,673   31,153
Ihujia&en- Coal 12)          6,170   4,329  1O,499   22,829   16,017   38,846       1.18  26,938   16,017   42,955
Ninsheng- Grain 12)             -     11,080   11,090     -     40,96   40,996       1.15     -    40,996  40,996
Total                     6,980   38,629  45,609   25,925  142,927  168,752             30,474  142,927  173,401
C. Tech. assistance
and training                 590   2,720    3,310    2,183   10,064   12,247      3.93    8,579   10,064   18,643
D. Physical
contingency                 577    1,197    1,774    2,135    4,429    6,564             2,135    4,429    6,564
E. Total l18):
Timber (1)                   6,048   12,579   18,627   22,376   46,543   68,919     1.04   24,916   46,576   71,392
Container II)                6,348   14,879   21,227   23,496   55,053   78,539     1.03   26,126   55,086  81,212
General cargo (121          56,429   99,209  155,638  206,788  367,074  575,862     1.04  232,113  367,469  599,582
Coal (2)                     14,508   17,142   31,650   53,681   63,426  117,107     1.05   60,675  62,341  123,016
6rain (2)                    6,394   24,402   30,796   23,659   90,204  113,943     1.03   26,470   90,909  117,379
Grand Total                89,727  168,211  257,939  331,990  622,380  954,370     1.04  370,200  622,381  992,581
MUZZU  C2222  Sc=2  USUZZUz-  KU3ars   Coa          CRZU  UU3U~ZU   =3u:   :22z
1/: These aggregate conversion factors are based on deuiled estimates of conversion factors uade at nearby
Chinese ports.
1_2i Number in parentheses are number of berths.



CHINA
SWLAI PORT PRFUECT
Econtoic Project Cout
2'0009482
---146----------19 7                  -   ------9        ----       --1989--  -              --1990-----   -----------    - ---------------1992-----  -- - -1993--     -  - ----
Local Foreip Total Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total  Local Forteign Total  Local Foreign   Total Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
Fianunal Costs
Tier          1,617  5,362 4,979 3,E00  7,903  11,703  6,875  14,300 21,175  5,950  12,377  19,327   4,135  8,601  12,736        0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0 22,376 46,543  68,919
Container     1,697  3,977 5,674 3,998   9,348  13,33t  7,216  16,915 24,131   6,245  14,640  20,995   4,340  l0174  14,514      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0 23,436  55,053  79,539
En-eral cargo 15,04 26,519 41,603 35,452  62,330  97,7J2 64,149 112,791 176,930 55,520 97,610 153,130  38,533  67,933 106,416    0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0209,78 367,074 575,62
Coal          3,733  4,410  9,143 14,096  16,643  30,729 32,397  39,279 70,676  3,465  4,094  7,559       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0 53,691  63,426 117,107
Erda              0     0      0      0      0       0      0       0       0  1,296  4,944  6,240   1,689  7,130  9,9B  10,671 40,720 51,391  7,622 29,086 36,709   2,202  9,404 10,606 23,659  90,214 113,943 U-
Total      22,131 38,268 60,399 57,326 96,224 153,550 110,637 192,275 292,912 72,476 133,665 206,141  49,926 93,739 142,664  10,671  40,720  51,391   7,622  29,016  36,708  2,202  9,404  10,60b 331,99  622,380 954,370
Econmic Cost:
Tiaboer       1,675 3,493 5,158 3,936  9,196  12,122  7,122  14,913 21,935  6,163  12,821  18,984  4,223  9,910  13,193          0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0 23,179 48,213 71,392
Container     1,755  4,l12  5,967  4,124  9,t66  13,790  7,462  17,490  24,952  6,457  15,138 21,595  4,499  10,520  15,009      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0 24,296 56,926 91,212
6enral cargo 15,705 27,611 43,316 36,912  64,998 101,010  66,792117,427 184,219 57,807 101,631 159,439  40,172 70,627 110,799    0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0217,399 362,194 599,582
Coal          3,921  4,632 9,553 14,797  17,493 32,290 34,032 40,210 74,242   3,640   4,301   7,941       0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0 56,390  66,626 123,016
Brra              0     0      0      0      0       0       0      0       0  1,335  5,093  6,420   1,924  7,345  9,269  10,993 41,948 52,941   7,652 29,963 37,015  2,26B   8,657  10,925 24,372 93,006 117,379
Total      23,056 39,938 62,994 59,769 100,233 160,002 115,408 199,940 305,348 75,402 138,984 214,396  50,867  97,402 148,269  10,993 41,949  52,941   7,952 29,963  37,815  2,269   9,657  10,925 345,615 646,965 W92,5B0
13---n-98



- 47 -
t.bl5.4(.2
c PUT 40tl
Cap 1"  t bt_c  d atit P_ $W
74.a hit 1110120
792   2904   2901            7920   799     19912   a9m      9141   1992           234
A. t7f]CKIM   009-   44   0*             HAND 749177.912 14.295       17,924  111,422  111,956  19,414  24,490  29,417       24,074
9. 9224l.49400007
m52     72    172       1.2 n25              2t
7.4.709,1k4,                           72    22    Is              Is      Is      Is      25      25      75             Is
2. 7l,407    *0209t                  10,99  12,02 12,023         172,27  12.J2   14,021 14,419  14,421  12,204           72,49
2. 041447   o 00o4 4.4   104920441o    2.11k1 4,254  4,022          4,454   4,7143   4,22  41 4 4, 901#.4  2,724,         2,9k
4. 1kI 'All 9420  449  4.471441        4.99   4,9901 9444           9,3    4,1k   4,1k   4,1k   4.99    4.1k              4,1k
2. 9922  4t.144 I1 240  II)               II    90       4             is    7957    79,    (795I   797    2937              2957
...., u4 t;4oZo742..                    0.20  _. _ . 02              0.29   0.20    0.92    0.741   0.92    .74             0.2_
2. J02-I 0M2A alp9 wO 449.
4      . lOe  94, 94.200do0       2,440  9,224  40,02          4,4146  4,214  9,544   4,540   4.2144   4.200         4,100
0 n40400 4i 4an                      221  1,292    567          2,0   127 744           5,244   2,744   2,24 4         2,014
* . SW   Hahtcom 44*                   0      0      4              0      44    204    214    1         ,             2j
let-, 0070 Wt Om9           3,901 2,421 4,474            7,4K   4.,0   $10.0 9,2    9,212   9,424              20,254
E-wo k,q 920  0424 90th
7.2     1.2   712       1 l        172
I.CQ 0        .                           79   24   2              I  24       74    74   4          14        74 15 24 ..  4
2. _n4477, I of 0t,                    5.     * 4 .4,51 4,42        .,      4,I"   4,9      .022   2,2         1,24       4
2.0042070.244,  Oo,90             2,2   ::40.424 297            ,0    4,57      .9      ,2      ,2      ,0             ,4
4. 1I  40            4470044774479     4,44   4.40   4,4            41k   4,40   44         4,440   4,40    4,0             ,4
I.'ll0.340   42. It,                     77     90 44                  1     29,    *927    7927    795    79*             795S
4. 4479t22               0404            .7     .5   0.74             .      0        .      O.K    O.Ko       9.74         0.00
4. 2ct.7 4,' tth OA"               3.422  4,0S4  2,77           47   4nm54   9,224   54          .1    4.                54
4.t 07, ..,7,  4472                  240  7,252    05           2,4    2,40    2,4e 3   2. 3404   2.3    2.4           2,409$w
0. 621va'a 77442 .7.4               42    0 1        0      0                    S               S 24  24 79    7,4    2,44
74447 I   4479 WI 44*          2.7   2.       4,4           *,2    4.0    4.4       5.74    W2   4,7lS            20t524
told4 al 4444*2   44*9        7,122  4.240  .422g          ,47    9,474   4,470   4,470   4,424   9,970          10,424
n. 44,9  4,, la" 9                   447  2,42   717             n      7       7       7,74    75      2              7,222
act-I406S7                                72 -1 -2                     72      72    102    I92  74 2         712            712
2  7247470 * 020 097                  72,999  *52.44  72.422       22,242  20,229  74,220  14,440  20,762 0t0,0           72,924
0                                                                .. .,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  1.t.  77' 47   0             42      22     20       721    122     02e           951
4.          tal* t_ .l   74024.0        0.04  0.2 n.l0 4 2.  129     42     0.92    0.4     0.02    9.44     .m           ,22n
0  t . 1 7 I45                                > t74474 7  m 0     I    *  05s  *.42  *4         *   t .2              125
244  44.4W0i 4.7                2,007     }     st 2,7442    ,920  2,2    2,2    2,4 n       ,2    2.4 9t4l        s,m
Idal sblt4rt hn     X.*"I    US    a"                                              M       "I- ,l  §t,s   t        1t l,
04.0 A-9  a04  94 0d  a"441.U2091                                     4      .49 342    ,4    351    .7                     ,
2. 72t44470ial 704409.I7 2,404                             4,274   4,24  ,4  ,2    ,02  Il,402   2,70    2,924           4,22
2.   ,q 4404.0044  9079                .45   4,424  2.79           43,74  ,7    2.77    2.4       I.22  ,42              ,
7. hotl  242a2 0t 0  Wt n-9-7
0. l0sell 447044447               219,42     4 4,9 0 2 19      4,040   2,22?   2.225   2,272   2.17   2.4            4,922
0.40l9026024.74444*9              2        0      0tn  1,a       4      0       3t 14          to   0a               0l
7.34204           nt 721                             m          $.t   1202  9.2            752     0 52    725           7 52
2.          alWt*39 242003?7                                            4,4411  3,43 *,42    2,220   0.2              4,490
1. 9 2 07 741 12 IS     4 42                    t             5              2   14      15   14      14    14              14
4. 9l470lt490044090t744 44024.4                                              4.     4.47 n.67       4.42    0.92           0,4a
4h.d 4014W0 0044.441 2aai            :       W     .              .      ,222   2.72    2,49   2,970   2.40            2,427
5. _ 1t      2901                                                             49      21ot    44t a ni  0,417  *,3     6.1  ^as    0.t    ...    al.a .5  3    69  4SI
o.4p.4u9i1                                                                   0       4I 0ta p W lz  9,K   4,Z   *4e*4 *  e *te    te ,e {e *n
t 7 total stal wrt hts
94242 M 02Wt9U                   .      ,aa    jn            4 44,3,2,0       ,15.73,241  2,954   3,043            4,419
4   sr      ,tt   u                  ,     .7    ,5                      I,tN     J2    5.    ,5r         I"           t52
d. 7          b       l t4447 4    2,77          7          0 0                9,20        n 010  022  74,272        12,I.7
h      Wgloo Ut7rr4s7
Id t4* In      15ttal                440 2,424   472            2,2      12        02    702    222    147            2,m2
1,0f 7wFtI                 "t tm                                            4,1 I    ,1    .2    .O kA                    66
1skip                 W,                        4 ,p               02,907   0,744   4,t475    9,72  04,404  94,5           4,557,4
400490        01 774  an 07 0 1,.4 11049304                                  %I"4714201499 9407    3400.   30   SM             
b77th K            1    0t    9 4Idll1W    7     n   09 n0t2.1                                 n  n                           go
6. ft_ws                                                                     .3 ttt~ r11 411                 . rt] h7
k         7 W,J Wma"1313 42 hw   2b                              304      k U   .02 t7 S   27   I2,9111  79t4 .
2,7     4tl42  i44  7   441a                                                                              IM *           n 0  .
7..  2040   O   9421k 904240704  0900   00^ 029.4.44 0J7,     640 W99. 4464  407    99770044 7X  3455                  *.
Iwo h73 t0479409  W*444440  0944.0  42                224
lon   w        loop w4003401 emL32 04117474.                                                             ,W           4.7
Ir_4. NMIt  t gm
di1,1 .6 1tu  11_1                                                  9.11  1,2         125    12D    12,1            12,1
5.  im rar w_s    I rrb                  6      0      41                    n       n       n                              tt
=Om, tit^tfdo77                                                      .n   *.l Shp            #.n a" ""WiuoalN  1& "111
:1. t    wot Uiqt tie Om        flt er   f th       mm       .w         tm     dW       kt   d      i.g
1.1   t4tl71 hp                                                          t4lv dm         5t em     di Nottnn     t"   i     O "jc
'2 ttfft   odeG    -of h tb  -K    I-wt of- t- wb                   wto       O    OK W            rlcti   WO
,vLoa  rtk on ilto fo ,eg.ta                    1115 t,Jatl",to Nav, u   *,t'if   tw 0 the w2   *^t5 15,11 ,tl
.0   Movala thm    ia4    ON         t- Uwt   actooa  t,         ,71       m         t     m        7     "              ,
1.   aploo ttq        haflfwaytX   IN   'oo             '              '       '               '       '



-68 -
Table 5.4(b)
CHIIA
MSANI PORT PROJECT
Carp Handling lithout And With Proposed kertks
iCantainer oBrth)
t955   1916 196                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995              2000
A. TRAFIC 9EIW    I 000 TEUsll II             114.4  201.6  221.7            393.6   422.2   452.6   495.2   520.2   557.6              795.0
i. vITHOT PROJECT
Ekistieg Container Berths
- ---- - ___ - --                                                                                                                      2
1. Berths (nuier)                             4       4      4               4        4       4        4        4       4               4
2. Traffi- I0or  TEUsi                    194.4  201.6  221.7            393.9   422.2   4j2.6   499.2   520.2   557.6              795.0
3. Annual %.p berth days required           377    412    453              905      9b3     926      992   1,064   1,140            1,626
4. Annual ship berth days available       1,2H0  1,290  1,290            1,290   1,290   1,290   1,290   1,2B0   1,290              1,2B0
5. Berth occupancy rate "                    29      32      35             63       67       72      7B       as      99             /951
. Wbiting time queuing factors             0,00   0.00   0.01             0.09    0.11    0.15    0.29    0.46    0.95               2.00
7. Annual total ship port dysil
A. Atual ship berth days                377    412    453              905     '03      926      992   1,064   1,140            1,216
b. Ship waiting days                      0       0      5              64       95     139      279     4B9      969           2,662
c. Shop lightering days                   0      0       0               0        0       0        0       0        0             920
Total ship port days             377    412    459              969     958   1,065   1,270   1,553   2,109             4,690
C. IITH PROJECT
....... ......... 
E,isting Container Berths
1. krths Inubehrl                             4       4      4               4        4       4        4       4        4               4
2. Traffic I 000 TE0sl                    194.4  201.6  221.7            393,9   349.0   375.0   402.0   431.0   461.0              o5B.0
3  Annual ship oerth  days required         377    412    453              905      714     767      922     981      943           1.346
4. Annual ship berth days available       1,290  1,2Bu  1,290            1,200   1,290   1,200   1,2B0   1,290   1,290              1,2B0
5. Berth occupancy ratt 17)                  29      32     35              63       56      60       64      69       74             /951
6. Waiting time queuing factors            0.0o    0.00   0.1            0.09    0.02    0.04    0.06    0,09    0.13               1.50
7. Annual total ship port dayst
a. kcumi snip  nerh  oays               ;77    iui    03               °W;       ii     o7i        : B   °i       ;i;           iio
b. Ship waiting dais                      0       0      5              64       14      31       49      79      123           1,920
c. Ship lignterin  odays                  0      °       i               0 °      0       0        0       0        0             2a0
Total ship port days             377    412    459              069     720      799     971      960   1,064           3,39a
Proposed Conta:ner Berth
1. Berths Inumber)                                                                    I       t        I       I        I               I
2, Traffic 1 000 TEU5O                                                               73      79       93      99       97             137
3. Annual ship berth days rtquired                                                 10      190      204     219      237             330
4. Annual ship berth dayus  vailable                                                320     320      320     320      320             320
5. Berth occupancy rate 17J                                                          54      59       64       69      74             (95,
6. lalting time quuoulg factors                                                    0.02    0.04    0.0     0.09    0.13             1.50
7. Annual total ship part days:
a. Atual ship berth days                                                       10      190      204     219      237             304
b. Ship waiting days                                                              4       E       12      20       31             490
c. Ship lightering days                                                           0       0        0       0        0              64
Total ship port days                                                   1I4       19B     216      239     269             94B
Notet   Ii'   annual ship berth days required *  trafficithtoretical daily capacity per berth.
flill   nnul ship berth days available * nuaber of berths r berth operating days per yer.
Oil) berth occupaicy rate * annusl ship berth days required / annual ship berth days available.
livl waiting tie queuing factors are from Port Oevelopweat, UNCTAD 1979, and Berth throughput, iKATAD, 1978.
lvi   annual ship waiting days   a nnual ship berth required s wanting tien quetinig factors.
'3. Includes oreign, domestic fin/outl, loaded and wepty containers.
i2. Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of theus berths. For the purpose of the economic evaluation it has been
assume  that ways will bh  fohnd, e.g., through lsghtering, to move the traffic through the pert with musting tuSas
not exceeding those corresneding to 951 berth occupancy rate.
So srte  Shanghai Pot Authority  nd Bak staff.
Jun-ge



- 69 -
CHi4                                                           Table  5.4(c)
S61M!U MT PRDJECT
Cargo Hilinsug Witheut bd  th Frood krths
ITIsi SeIrth2
1185   1986   1981             199      1991    I2    1993    29f4    2M15                 2000
a. TRAFFIC DElMAN    000 TOuS) i-1            1,195    776    b82             1,070   1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125               1,228
0. WITHOUT PROJECT
E'isting Timber Brths
- -----------             2                           /12      1 2      1.2     /_2      1_2      /_2              1 2
1 Berths isueberi')                            4       4 4    4                4       4        4        4       4        4               4
. Traficu    )iu tonsi                     1,195    776    b82             1,070   i,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125              1,228
3, Annual ship be,rt  days required        1,676  1,080    957             1,501   1,516   1,532   1,547   1,S62   1,578              1,722
4. Annual ship berth days available        1,280  2,280  2,280             1,280   1,28O   1,280   1,280   1,28'   1,280              2,280
S. Berth occupancy rate hi                   295    05      75              2952    (95k    195)   (295    (2          195)             2952
b. Vaiting time quesing factors             2.00   0.55   0.21              2.08    2.08    2.08    2.00    2.0        2.08            2.08
7. Annual total ship pert dayss
a. ktual ship berth days               1,216  1,088    957            1,226   1,216   2,216 2 ,226   1,216   1,216                1,216
b. Ship waiting days                   2,6b2    50      201           2,662   2,662   2,662   2,tt2   2,b62   2,t62               2,662
c. ship lightering days                  920      0       0             570      600      632     662      092      724           1,012
Total ship port days           4,798  2,686  2,258            4,448   4,478   4,510   4,540   4,570   4,t02               4,890
C. WITH PROJECT
Ellsting Tlmber Berths
___  _   __    _  -1 2                                           12
1  Oerths Inujeri                              4       *4     4                4       4        4        4       4        4               4
2. traffic    h 00  tons,                  1,195    776    682             1,070     724      721      720     736      743              1l2
3. Annual ship berth days required         1,07b  1,088    957             2,SO2   1,001   1,011   1,021   1,032   1,042              1,137
4. Aneiuia  ship berth days available      1,280  1,200  1,280             1,200   1,280   1,280  12280   1,280   1,280               1,28O
5. berth occapanc. rate  1,                  2952    05      75              295)     78       79       80      81       81              89
a. Maitino  time qgeusng factors            i08   0.55   0.21             2.08    0.19    0.21    0.23    0.26    0.26                0.b0
7. Annual tetai sh:p port days:
a. * t oi Ship hert dafys              !,'1u  1,00      957           1,210   1,01   1,011   1,021   1,032   1,042                1,127
t. Ship waiting days                   2,062    598    201            2,662      190      2t2     235      208      271             b02
C. Ship lightering days                  920      u       0             570        0        0       0        u        0               1
Total ship port days           4,798  1,080  1,158            4,448   1,191   1,223   1,250   1,30i   1,313               1,819
Proposeo Tiaber Berth
1  Berths  number                                                                     I        I        1       1        1               I
:    lthic   Ubo tors,                                                            367      371     375      378      38i             427
3. dnnual ship berth days required                                                   250      253     256      258      20O             204
4. annual ship berth days anailable                                                  320      320      320     320      320             320
0. Berth occupancy tate il,                                                           78       79      00       81       81              89
t.  ailting time queusis factors                                                    0,19    0.21    0.23    0.26    0.26               0.15
7. annual total ship port deyut
a. ;ctual ship berth days                                                        250      253     256      258     260              284
b. Ship wAiltmin  dayS                                                            4        53      59       67       68              43
C. Ship lightering days                                                            0        0       0        0        0               0
Total ship port days                                                     298      300      315     325      Z28             327
Notts: Q,   annual ship tbrth days reuired *  traff:c,theo,etical daosy capacity per btrth.
:  .-.!  . *iwth oiatiog dia  par Fuar.
2iu  berth occupancy raot  - annual ship berth days requirmd i annual sbip berth days available.
iv wvaiting tiue qUetuig factors are fron Part Benelopant, UlCTTD 1970, and berth throughput, I2OTAO 1983.
iv)   annual ship maiting days *  nnual ship berth days required s  asitiog time quueseng factors.
'-Ii Includes berth operation only.
12: Traffic would extend the practical cqapcity of thee berths. For the purposs of the tconoetc enaluatioa it his bees
assumed that ways will be foand, e.g., through lightering, to sove the traffic through the port sith waiting tlawf
not cxceeding those corresponding to 95S berth occupancy rate.
Sourcesi Shanghai Port hAthority and Bakn staff.
Jun-8



- 70.-
CHIN TAble  5.4(d)
SaIMIMtI PFC7 PRWECT
Cargo Handling Without And Ihth Propostd krtbs
(Coal 8rrth)
1985   1986   1957              1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995                 2000
A. IPAFFlC DEW1    COK tons) i-I              34,327 37,827 39,840            49,125  51,189  53,339  55,580  57,915  60,347               75,365
0, IlTHOUl FROJECt
-. ..s. , -=.
E,iting Coal Berths
i-2     1 2      i 2      1 2          2 i    2               i 2
1. berths  inumberi                            10      to      10              10       10       10       10       to      10               10
2. Iraftic   ' :o tons'                   34,327 37,827 39,840             49,125  51,189  53,339  55,580  57,915  e0,347               75,3b5
3. Annual ship berth days required          2,213  2,438  2,568             3,167   3,300   3,438   3,583   3,733   3,890                4,858
4. aseual ship berth daes avallahle         3,200  3,200  3,200             3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200   3,20u                3,200
S. Berth occupancy rate ill                    69      70      80             (95)    (95)    (95)    (195)    (95)    (951                1951
o. 8altmng tue queuing Jactors               0.01   V.03   v.06              0.8')    0.60    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80                v.80
7. Annuai total ship port days:
A. actual ship Offth days              2,zO13  2,438  2,568            3,040   3,040   3,040   3,040   3,040   3,040                3,040
b. Shic waiting days                       22      73    154            2,560   2,560   2,560   2,50    2,560   2,5*v              2.560
C. Ship lugntering days                     0      0       0              254     520      79e   1,0806   1,380    1,700            3,b36
lotal ship port days            2,235  2,511  2,722             5,854   b,120   b,39*   8,(8&   8,98b    1,300               9,236
C. hIbT  PROJEC1
E usting Coal 6erths
-  -----------------                                                          w2       1_2       32      i 2       2        2
1. berths nuomber,                             IV      Iv      10               9        9        5        9       9        9                9
T Iraffic I uw  tonys                      34,327 37,827 ;9,64v            41,2'1  42,904  44,io8  46,649  48,609  SY,O50               03,"55
3. 4qnual ;nip berth days required          2.213  2,438  2,568             2,488   2,592   2,701   2,814   2,933   3,05e                3,816b
4. Arnnil Ship berth daaa  available        3,20   3,20Y   3,200            2,890   2,880   2,880   2,880   2.88)   2,880                2,88)
5. heto  eccupantc  riate  ,'1                  9      7b      80              8e       90       94      1951)    951    (953              (95
t. aaiting til  queuing tcntors               .vl   9.03   Q.(b              0.13    0.28    O.o3    0.72    v.72    0.72                .n72
'. Arual total ship port days:
a. Ac'aal ship berin days              i,i13  i,438  2,5o8             2,488   2,5i2   2,701   2,736   2,73o   2,73o                2,736
b. ihlp salting dlas                       2i     73    154               323     726   1,702   2,074   2,074   2,074               2,074
c. Ship iiqnterioo days                     0       0      0                0        u       0      156      394      40            2,1e0
Total ship Port days           i,235  2,511  2, 22              2,811   3,318   4,40i   4,9bO   5,204   5,45v                b,970
0'oposec Coal bertn
- -------------- ---                                                          ,-2 '     -2_ 2            - : 2   #.2      i2                '2
1. berths inumbern '3                                                           2        2        2        2       2        i                2
2  Traffic % v, tons,                                                       7,894   8,225   8,571   8,931   9,306   9,697               12,11v
Annuil ship bhrth days required                                              553      57b     600      625      652      679              848
4. Annual ship berth days                                                     35silt  34u  640 7 40     b40    *bh        o4V              040
he  6eth occupa nc  rbte      a.    rb t0                                                        94 e95 1d51 d95l    a95a
t. Vlating time queung factors                                               0;1;    0.28    0.r,    0.7'    0.72    0.7.                 v.72
7 . 4nnwl total ship pbrt days a
a. Alti ai ship                              btrth drys    q            SS        57s beor   d      ey 8     ou       oOa8 abl
o. Sehi   ting dtie                                                        72 1    b8      378 4t   h        4bT      4nl             4b9
c. S      aip li hteri dg doys                       h                       ,        r              34 3.            142             483
,ot les   as annfrl ship berth d        uys rtquir.d      traffic 'ettcal daily C p tit  per berth
,ii, annual ship berth days availaleb - nuStr of berths x berth operating days per year.
Mitl berth occuparny rate * annual  hip berth days required i annual ship berth day  avalable.
tw otting time queuing factors ro, trw  Fort bsvelopnnt, UNCTAD 1978, and berth throughput, llYtAD 198i.
tv- annual ship waiting days * an Berth throughput, UhtTAD 1973, LIN, lln toru, page 33.
1. Includes foreis;n, donstic (to/out)
'2. Traffic dould toceod the practical capacity of thee berths. For the purpost of the tconuic evaluaton it hs bhen
assumed that ways vull be food, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with waiting times
oct auceding those torrespaoding to 95; berth occupancy rate.
i3.  nci,.des one berth for 1,000 ton-class ship.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bahnk staff.
Jun-le



-  71 -
Table 5.4(e)
CHINA
SHAIAI PORT PROJECT
Cargo Handling Nithout And With Proposed Brths
lGrain Berths)
19B5   1986   19B6           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995              2000
A. TRAFFIC DEfN9O D OOO TONSI               4,374  6,224  5,740           5,576   5,640   5,705   5,770   5,836   5,903             6,357
B. WITHOUT PROJECT
Exis ip; Grain Berths
_____-_------/-I
1. Brths (nuwer)                             2      2       2              2        2       2       2        2       2               2
2. Traffic (000 tons)                   4,374  6,224  5,740           5,576   5,640   5,705   5,770   5,836   5,903             6,357
3. Annual ship berth days required         429    610    563             547      553     559     566      572     579             623
4. Annual ship berth days available        640    640    640             640      640     640     640      640     640             640
5. Berth occupancy rate (1)                 67    (95)    fB              85       86      87      8B       89      90             (95i
6. Waiting tin queuing factors            0.62   4.34   2.68            2.00    2.23    2.46    2.68    2.91    3.14              4.34
7. Annual total ship port days:
a. Actual ship berth days              429    608    563             547     553      559     566      572     579            608
b. Ship waiting days                   266  2,778  1,509           1,094   1,233   1,375   1,517   1,665   1,818            2,778
c. Ship lghtering days                   0      4       0              0        0       0       0        0       0              30
Total ship port days            695  3,390  2,072           Il,A    1,7806  1,934   2,083   2,237   2,397            3,41b
C. WITH PROJECT
Proposed Brain Berths
1. Berths lnuabmrl                           2      2       2              2        2       2       2        2       2               2
2. Traffic (l000 tons)                   4,374  6,224  5,740           5,576   5,640   5,705   5,770   5,836   5,903             6,357
3. Anual ship berth days required          429    610    563             547     553      559     236      238     241            260
4. Annual ship berth days available        640    640    640             640     640      640     640      640     640             640
5. Berth occupancy rate li                 67    (95)    B8               s5      96      87      37       37      38              41
6. Waiting time queuing factors           0.62   4.34   2.68            2.00    2.23    2.46    0.04    0.04    0.05             0.06
7. Annual total ship port days;
a. Actual ship berth days              429    auB    563             547     553      559     236     238      241            26Q
b. Ship waiting days                   266  2,778  1,509           1,094   1,233   1,375        9       10      12              16
c. Ship lightering days                  0      4       0              0        0       0       0        0       9              0
Total ship port days            695  3,390  2,072           1,641   1,786   1,934      245     248     253             276
Notes:  i)   annual ship berth days required *  traffic/theoretital daiiy capacity per berth.
(ii) annual ship berth days available * nueber of berths x berth operating days per year.
Iiii) berth occupancy rate * annual ship berth days required I annual ship berth days available.
liv: waiting tim queuing factors are froo Port Development, UNCTAD 1978 and berth throughput, UNCTAD 1973.
(v) annual ship waiting days ' annual ship berth days required x waiting time queueing factors.
iii Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths, For the purpose of the economic evaluation it has been
assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic througp the port with vaiting tim
not exceeding those corresponding to 95S berth occupancy rate.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-8B



- 72 -
Table  5.5(a)
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
LoaJiunloading Cost Savings
Break Bulk Berths
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995              2000
A. Taffic desand ('000 tons)                                  18,433  18,956  19,494  20,048  20,617            24,078
B. Berth capacity at 951 occupancy rate ('060 tons)
Without project                                        18,334  18,334  18,334  18,334  18,334            18,334
With project                                          24,224  25,402  25,402  25,402  25,402             25,402
C. Traffic handling ('000 tons)
Without project       Berth                           18,334  18,334  18,334  18,334  J8,334             18,334
Lightering                          99     622   1,160   1,714   2,283             5,744
Total                         18,433  18,956  19,494  20,048  20,617            24,078
With project          Berth                           18,433  18,956  19,494  20,048  20,617             24,076
Lightering                           0       0        0        0       0               0
Total                         18,433  18,956  19,494  20,049  20,617            24,078
D. Loadinglunloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project       Berth                            61.60   61.60   61.60   61.60   61.60             61.60
Lightering                        1.05    6.57   12.25   18.10   24.11             60.66
Total                         62.65   68.17   73.85   79.70   85.71             122.26
With project          Berth                            61.93   63.69   65.50   67.36   69.27             80.90
Lightering                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00              0.00
Total                         61.93   63.69   65.50   67.36   69.27              80.90
E. Net loading/unloading savings (Yuan million)                 0.72    4.48    8.35   12.34   16.44             41.36
___-- -_  ------- ______   ----------__________--          ==_==    =====    =====   =====    =====            _=
Notes: 1. The conversion factors for handling cost are: (a) At berth 1.05; and (bi Lightering 1.10.
2. Ligherting costs are taken to be three times handling costs at berth.



- 73 -
Table 5.5(b)
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Loadlunloading Cost Savings
Container Berth
1991    1992    1?93    1994    1995            2000
A. Traffic denand ('000 TEUs)                                422.2   452.6   495.2   520.2   557.6            795.0
D. Berth capacity at 95X occupancy rate ('000 TEUs)
Without project                                       594.3   594.3   594.3   594.3   594.3            594.3
With project                                          656.3   719.2   710.2   719.2   719.2            718.2
C. Traffic handling 1000 TEUs)
Without project      Berth                            422.2   452.6   495.2   520.2   557.6            594.3
Lightering                        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0           200.7
Total                        422.2   452.6   4B5.2   520.2   557.6             795.0
With project         Berth                            422.2   452.6   485.2   520.2   557.6            719.2
Lightering                        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0            76.B
Total                         422.2   452.6   495.2   520.2   557.6            795.0
0. Loading/unloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project      Berth                            62.06   66.53   71.37   76.47   d1.97            87.36
Lightering                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            61.92
Total                         62.06   66.53   71.32  74.47   81.97            149.18
With project          Berth                           62.06   6b.53   7.;3    76.47   81.97           105.58
Lightering                       0.00    O,00    0.00    0.00    0.00            23.65
Total                         62.06   66.53   71.32   76.47   91.97           129.23
E. Net loading/unloading savings (Yuan million)               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00            19.95
________________________________________-----                 =====  3===- =   == 5==   ==Sz -=-==         _=UZ=
Notes: 1. The conversion factors for handling cost are: (a) At berth 1.5O and tb) Lightering.l.10.
2. Ligherting costs are Laken to ae three tines handling costs at berth.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-89



- 74 -
Table 5.5(c)
cNI:
SIANHAI FORT PRlECT
Load/unloading Cost Savings
Timber erths
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995           2000
A. laffic   mamo  ('000 tons)                               1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125           1,228
3. Birth capacity at 951 occupancy rate E'000 tons)
Witbhot project                                        9b9     868     968     868      949            969
lith proje::                                         1,314   1,314   1,314   1,314   1,314           1,314
C. Traffic hanb ng ('000 tons)
Without project      Berth                             8b9     868     869     868    9b6              8t
Lightering                       213     224      235     246     257            360
Total                        1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125           1,228
With project         Berth                           1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125           1,228
Lightering                         0       0        0       0       0              0
Total                        1,081   1,092   1,103   1,114   1,125           1,228
D. Loading/umloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project      Berth                            1.18    1.18    1.16    1.18    1.18            1.18
Ughtering                       0.91    0.96    1.01    1.06    1.10            1.54
Total                         2.09    2.14    2.19    2.24    2.28            2.72
With project         Berth                            1.49    1.51    1.52    1.54    1.55            1.69
Lightering                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0             0.00
Total                         1.49    1.51    1.52    1.54    1.55            1.69
E. Net loading/unloading savings (Yuan million)              0.60    0.63    0.67    0.70    0.73            1.03
Notes: 1. The convrsion factors for handling cost are: a) At berths 1.05; and Ib) Lightering 1.10.
2. ULhtering costs are taken to be three tim   handling costs at berth.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-89



- 75 -
Table 5.5(d)
CHIN
SIIAN6AI PORT PROJECT
Load/unloading Cost Savings
Coal Berths
-                              ~       ~-                 -      -      -      -   -------------------
1990    1991    1992    1V93    1994    1995             2000
A. Taffic de  nd ('000 tons)                        49,125  51,189  53,339  55,590  57,915  60,347           75,365
D. ktrth capatity at 951 occupancy rate 1'000 tons)
Without project                             47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160            47,160
With project                                49,692  49,692  49,692  49,692  49,692  49,692            49,692
C. Traffic handling ('000 TOls)
Without project      Berth                  47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160  47,160            47,160
Lightering              1,965   4,029   6,179   9,420  10,755  13,187           28,205
Total               4,125  51,109  53,339  55,500  57,915  60,347             75,365
With project         Berth                  49,125  49,692  49,692  49,692  49,692  49,692            49,692
Lightering                  0   1,497   3,647   5,869   9,223  10,655           25,673
Total               49,125  51,199  53,339  55,590  57,915  60,347            75,365
D. Loudinglunloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project      Berth                   64.37   64.37   64.37   64.37   64.37   64.37             64.37
Lightering              8.43   17.28   26.51   36.12   46.14   56.57            121.00
Total                72.90   91.65   90.98  100.49  110.51  120.94            185.37
With project         Berth                   67.06   67.93   67.93   67.93   67.93   67.83             67.93
Lightering              0.00    6.42   15.65   25.26   35.29   45.71            110.14
Total                b7.06   74.25   83.49   93.09  103.11  113.54            177.97
E. Net loading/unloading savings (Yuan million)       5.74    7.40    7.40    7.40    7.40    7.40             7.40
-- --------------------------------         =8==   ====   ==         ==s   .===   ,s-U == ,=
Notes: 1. The conversion factors for handling cost are: la) At berths 1.05; and lb) Lightering 1.10.
2. Lightering costs are taken to be three times handling costs at berth.
Sourtes: Shanghai Port Authority and Bank staff.
Jun-89



- 76 -
Table  5.5(e)
CHINA
SHAN6HAI PORT PROJECT
Load/unloading Cost Savings
6rain Berths
1993    1994    1995             200(i
A. Traffic demand ('000 tons)                                                  5,770   5,e3b   5,903            o,357
B. Berth capacity at 95% occupanrY rate ('000 tonst
Without project                                                         b,202   6,202   6,202            b,202
With F'oJect                                                           14,694  14,894  14,684           14,884
C. Traffic handling 1 000 tons)
Without project       Berth                                             5,770   5,93b   5,903            6,202
Lightfring                                                    ( i      v             155
Total                                          5,770   5,836   5,903             6,357
With project          Berth                                             5,770   5,836   5,903            b.357
Lightering                                            0       O        v               0
Total                                          5,770   5,636   5,903             b,357
0. Loadingtunloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project       Berth                                             24.23   24.51   24.79            G6.05
Lightering                                         0.00    0.0 06t     V,00         2.05
Total                                          24.23   24.51   24.79            26.10
With project          berth                                             24 23   24.51   24.79            26.70
Lightering                                         0.0"    M.O0    0.00             0.00
Total                                          24.23   24.51   24.79            2e.70
E. Net loadingiunloading savings (0uan sillion                                  0.00    v.00      . O0           1.40
-----------------------------                                            == ===  =====    =====           ==Z==
Notes: 1. The conversion factors for handling cast are: tap At berth 1.05; and tb) Lightering 1.0.
2. Lightewring costs are taken to be three times handling cost at berth.
Sources: Shanghai Port Authority and Ban! staff.
Jun-89



- 77 -
Table 5.6
CNIm
S11M     I PORY PROJECT
Economoc Ben*fits Suftro
Total Projtit
IY illionl
1990    1991    1992    1993    2994    1995             2000
Break Bulk Berths
Ports: Loadinglunloading savings                     0.72    4.48    8.35   12.34   1h.44            41.36
Ships port days savings                             95.93  100.7'  72.87  105.79  107.92             103.52
Cargo port days sav:ngs                             51.32   54.8      : 5    59.39   61.49           65.15
Less: Benefits accruaing to foreigners 11011          14.90   16.02  ...Bl   17.75   18.59              21.00
Subtotal                                      133.17  144.13  151.31  159.77  167.2b           189.03
Lontainer Berth
Portsa  Loading/unloading savings                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             19.95
Ships port days savings                              1.74    2.60    6.91   13.3b   29.25             17.13
Cargo port days savings                              0.45    0.62    1.46    2.71    5.79             4.42
Less: Benefits accruing to foreignersll01)             0.22    0.32    0.84    1.61    3.50              4.15
Subtotal                                        1.97    2.90    7.53   14.46   31.54            37.35
Timber Berths
Ports: Loading/nnloading savings                     0.60    0.63    0.67    0.70    0.73              1.03
Ships port days savings                             40.14   40.05   39.90   39.59   39.80            36.91
Cargo port days savings                              9.85    9.87    9.86    9.82    9.98             9.60
Less: Benefits accruing to foreigners 11011            5.06    5.06    5.04    5.01    5.04              4.7b
Subtotal                                       45.53   45.49   45.39   45.10   45.37            42.87
Coal Berths
Ports: Loadinglunloading savings             5.74    7.40    7.40    7.40    7.40    7.40              7.40
Ships port days savings                     73.13   62.38   30.43   18.31   18.53   18.94            21.16
Cargo port days savings                      1.28    1.09    0.46    0.21    0.20    0.19             0.14
Lnsst Benefits accruing to foreignersIlOMl   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
Subtotal                              80.15   70.B7   38.29   25.92   26.13   26.53             26.72
Brain Berths
Ports: Loadinglonloading savings                                      0.00    0.00    0.00            1.40
Ships port days savings                                              29.92   32.38   34.90           51.12
Carno nort days savings                                               h.95    7.58    8.23           12.35
Other savings                                                         5.77    5.84    5.9v            6.36
Less: Benefits accruing to foreigners MDOll                             4.26    4.58    4.90             7.12
Subtotal                                                       38.38   41.22   44.13            64.1
Total                                         80.15  251.54  230.81  268.!3  266.68  314.83           3b2.00
Sources: Shanghai Port Autho-ity and Bank staff.
Jun-Go



CHINA
SI9MII PORT PUECT
Econeic Rate of Return (ERR) an Sesitivity Aalysis
Breua bultk Brths
I lillion luan I
120 years)
-----------Base Ca       -----          ---Case I----                         Case 2 -                ----Case 3----               ----Cse 4---
-------Costs-----   Total    let                          Net                             Nit                           Not                knefits   Net
Capital ilamnt-       lkne-  Cash         Costs Benefits Cash           Costs Benefit s Cash            Costs Bnefits  Cash          Crnsts (Delay    Cuas
Year       invest. enance  Total  fits   Flos         4+15?)          Flou                  (-151i   Flow           1+151) (-151)   Flow               I Year]   Flow
1986        43.32         43.32        443.32)        49.92         149.e2)          43.32          143.32)         49.92         449.02)        43.32         (43.324
1917       101.i)        101.81        (101.8)       117.09        (1110Ni          101.81         (101.i1)        117.09         41117.1)      l01.91        (101.81)
1919       184.22        194.22        (194.2)       211.95         .d1.9)          194.22          (194.2)        211.15         (211.9)      14.22        (114.22)
1919        159.44       159.44        (159.4)       183.36         1193.44         159.44          1159.4?        193.36         1163.4)       159.44        I159.44)
I99O       1(0.90        140.90        ((40.9)       127.42        027.42)          110.80         (110.90)        127.42         4127.4)       110.90        (110.90)
199l               41.97  41.97 133.17   91.2         48.27 133.17   84.90           41.97  113.19   71.22          49.27  113.19   64.9         41.97         (41.97)
1W2                41.97  41.97 144.13  102.2         48.27 144.13   95.96           41.97  122.51   90.54          48.27  122.51  74.24         41.97 133.17   91.20
1993               41.97  41.97 151.31  109.3         49.27 151.31  103.04           41.97  129.61  9b.b4           48.27  121.61  90.34         41.97 144.13  102.1b
I94                41.97  41.97 159.77 117.90         49.27 159.77  111.50           41.97  135.90   93.83          48.27  135.80  97.53         41.97 151.3!  I9.34
1995               41.97  41.97 167.26 125.29         49.27 167.26  119.99           41.97  142.17  100.20          49.27  142.17  93.S0         41.97 159.71  117.90
199b               41.97  41.97 171.61 129.64         40.27 171.61  123.34           41.97  145.97  103.90          48.27  145.87  97.6          41 .9  467.2..  125.29
1997               41.97  41.97 175.97 134.00         49.27 175.97  127.70           41.97  149.57  107.60          49.27  149.57 iO.30          41.97 171.61  129.64
1998               41.97  41.97 190.32 138.35         49.27 190.32  132.05           41.77  153.27  111.30          49.27  153.27 105.00         41.97 175.97  134.00
1999               41.97  41.97 194.68 142.71         49.27 194.68  136.41           41.97  156.97  1(5.00          49.27  56.97 108.70         41.97 IBO.32  136.35
2000               41.97  41.97 199.03 147.06         48.27 199.03  140.76           41.97  1I0.68  11(.71          49.27  160.69 112.41         41.97 184.68  142.71
2001               62.96  62.96 189.03 126.07         72.40 199.03  116.63           62.96  160.69   97.72          72.40  1bO.69  91.29         62.96 (i9.03  126.07
2002               62.96  62.96 199.03 126.07         72.40 199.03  (16.63           62.96  460.69   97.72          72.40  160.69  90.29         62.96 199.03  126.07
2003               62.96  62.96 199.03 126.07         72.40 199.03  116.63           62.96  160.6B   97.72          72.40  (60.69 99.28          62.96 199.03  126.07
2004               62.96  62.96 189.03 126.07         72.40 189.03  116.63           62.96  160.68   97.72          72.40  160.b6  99.29         62.96 199.03  126.07
2005-              62.96  62.96 1(9.03 126.07         72.40 199.03  416.63           62.96  160.69   97.72          72.40  160.68  89.29         62.96 199.03  126.07
2006               62.96  62.96 189.03 126.07         72.40 199.03  116.63           62.96  160.68   97.72          72.40  160.69  08.21         62.96 19.03  126.07
2007                62.96  62.96 189.03 126.07        77 40 189.03  116.63           62.96  160.69   97.72          72.40  460.68  80.21         62.96 199.03  126.07      >
2008               62.96  62.96 199.03 126.07         72.40 189.03  116.63           62.96  160.68   97.72          72.40  160.68  81.21         62 96 109.03  126.07       r
2009               62.96 b2.96 109.03 126.07          72.40 189.03  116.63           62.96  160.68   97.72          72.40  160.68  89.28         62.96 199.03  126.07
2010               62.96  b2.96 109.03 126.07         72.40 189.03  116.63           62.96  160.68  97.72           72.40  160.69  89.2i         62.98 189.03  126.07       '
Total      599.59 1049.3 1648.9 3547.6 1999.7        1896.2 3547.6 1651.32         1649.89 3015.44 1366.55         1896.2 3015.44 1119.2        1648.9 3359.5  1709.6      _
ERR    14.6 2              ERR      12.01                 ERR      ( 11.6 1              ERR    9.1 1                 ERRz   12.21
Jun-se



CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Ecmonoic Rate of Return iERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
Container Berth
m(¶illion Yuan
(20 years)
-------B---ase Case------                 ----Case 1-----               -----Case 2- ---                -------Cas  3------          -----Case 4--…
--------Costs-----   Total   Net                           Net                             Net                           Net                Benefits  Net
Capital Naint-         Dene-  Cash         Costs Benefits  Cash          Costs  Benefit s Cash           Costs Benefits  Cash         Costs (Delay    Cash
Year        invest. nance  Total  fits   Flow          tt151)          Flow                  l-151)    Flow          (+151) (-15%)   Flow               I year)   Flov
1996         5.97          5.S7          (5.871        6.75           (6.75)           5.97           15.87)          6.75          (6.75)         5.87          15.87)
1S87         13.79         13.79        (13.79)        15.06         (15.96)          13.79          (13.79)         15.86         115.86)        13.79         113.79)
1986        24.95         24.95         (24.95)       29.69          128.69)          24.95          (24.95)         29.69          (28.7)        24.95         (24.95)
1989        21.60         21.60          (21.6)       24.84           (24.8)          21.60           (21.6)         24.94          (24.9)        21.60         (21.601
1990        1D.00          15.00         (15.0)        17.25          (17.3)          15.00           (15.0)         17.25          (17.3)        15.00          (15.0)
1991                5.69   5.68   1.97   (3.7)         6.53   1.97    (4.6)           5.68    1.67    (4.0)           6.53    1.67   14.9)         5.8            (5.7)
1992                5.68   5.68   2.50  -2.78          6.53   2.90   -3.63             5.69    2.47   -3.21           6.53    2.47  (4.06)         5.68   1.97   (3.71)
1993                5.68   5.68   7.53   1.85          6.53   7.53    1.00             5.68    6.40    0.72           6.53    6.40  (0.13)         5.69   2.90   (2.79)
I994                5.68   5.69  14.46   0.79          6.53  14.46    7.93             5.68   12.29    6.6'           6.53   12.29   5.76          5.68   7.53    1.85
1995                5.6B   5.69  31.54  25.86           6.53  31.54   ?5.01            5.68   .6.81   21.13           6.53   26.81  20.29          5.68  14.46    9.79                 0
1596                5.68   5.68 35.99  30.21           6.53  35.89   29.36             5.69   30.51   24.93           6.53   30.51  23.98          5.68  31.54   25.96
1997                5.69   5.69  40.25  34.57          6.53  40.25   33.72             5.68   34.21   29.53           6.53   34.21  27.69          5.69  35.89   30.21
1999                5.68   5.68  44.60  38.92          6.53  44.60   39.07             5.69   37.91   32.23           6.53   37.91  31.3f          5.69  40.25   34.57
1999                5.68   5.68  49.96  43.29           6.53  40.96   42.43            5.69   41.61   35.93           6.53   41.61  35.08          5.68  44.60   39.92
2000                5.69   5.69  37.35  31.67           6.53  37.35   30.82            5.66   31.75   26.07           6.53   31.75  25.22          5.68  48.96   43.28
2001                 9.52   8.52  37.35  28.83          9.80  37.35   27.55            8.52   31.75   23.23           9.90   31.75  21.95          9.52  37.35   28.93
2002                 9.52   9.52  37.35  28.93          9.90  37.35   27.55            9.52   31.75   23.23           9.90   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   29.83
2003                 8.52   9.52  37.35  29.93          9.80  37.35   27.55            6.52   31.75   23.23           9.80   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   28.83
2004                 B.52   9.52  37.35  28.93          9.80  37.35   27.55            9.52   31.75   23.23           9.80   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   29.83
2005                 8.52   9.52 37.35  29.83           9.90  37.35   27.55            8.52   31.75   23.23           9.90   31.75  21.95          9.52  37.35   28.93        s
2006                 9.52   9.52  37.35  29.83          9.80  37.35   27.55            9.52   31.75   23.23           9.90   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   20.93        L
2007                 B.52   8.52  37.35  2B.83          9.Bo  37.35   27.55            8.52   31.75   23.23           9.80   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   29.83
2000                 9.52   9.52  37.35  28.93          9.90  37.35   27.55            9.52   31.75   23.23           9.90   31.75  21.95          9.52  37.35   28.931
2009                8.52   0.52  37.35  28.93           9.90  37.35   27.55            8.52   31.75   23.23           9.80   31.75  21.95          8.52  37.35   2H.93
2010                 9.52   8.52  37.35  28.93          9.80  37.35   27.55            9.52   31.75   23.23           9.80   31.75  21.95          0.52  37.35   29.83
Total        81.21 142.00 223.21  639.3 415.74        256.69  639.0  382.26          223.21  543.13  319.92         256.69  543.13 296.44        223.21  601.6  379.39
ERR a  15.4                 ERRa   13.51                   ERR      13.2 2                ERR =   11.3 %               ERR a   13.4 2
Jun-S9



CHINIA
SWN9HAI PORT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivite tnaiysis
Timber Berths
hillion Yun
(20 years)
-----Ba te  Case---------  -----ase  ---                        Case 2------           -------Case 3 ---           ----Case 4----
------Costs---   Total   Net                            Net                            Net                         Net                Benefits  Net
Capital Iaint-        Bene-  Cash        Costs Benefits Cash         Costs Benefit s Cash           Costs Benefits  Cash        Costs  Delay   Cash
Yea        invest. enance  Total  'i:  Flow         (4151)          Flow                 (-15)   Flow         (.151) (-152)  Flow               I year)  Flow
1916         5.16         5.16         (5.161        5.93          (5.93)          5.16          45.16)         5.93          (5.93)        5.16         (5.16)
1997        12.12        12.12        112.12)       13.94         113.94)         12.12         (12.12)        13.94         (13.94)       12.12        112.12)
199        21.94        21.94         121.9)       25.23         (25.2)          21.94          (21.9)       .25.23          (25.2)       21.94        121.94)
1999        18.99        19.91         (19.0)       21.93          (21.8)         IB.99          (19.0)        21.93          (21.8)       18.99        (16.98)
190         13.19        13.19         113.2)       15.17        115.17)          13.19         (13.19)        15.17         (15.17)       13.19        (13.19)
Ii                5.00  5.00 45.53  40.5           5.75  45.53  39.78            5.00  39.70  33.70           5.75  39.70  33.0           5.00         (5.00)
1992               5.00   5.00 45.49  40.5           5.75  45.49  39.74            5.00  3B.67  33.67           5.75  38.67  32.92          5.00  45.53 40.53             co
1993               5.00  5.00 45.39  40.4            5.75  45.39  39.64            5.00  39.58  33.58           5.75  39.58 32.93           5.00  45.49 40.49
194                5.00  5.00 45.10  40.10           5.75 45.10  39.35             5.00  39.34  33.34           5.75  38.34 32.59           5.00  45.39 40.39
1995               5.00  5.00 45.37  40.37           5.75  45.37  39.62            5.00  39.56  33.56           5.75  38.56 32.81           5.00  45.10 40.10
1996                5.00  5.00  44.97  39.97         5.75  44.97   39.12           5.00  38.14  33.14           5.75  3B.14  32.39          5.00  45.37 40.37
19S7                5.00  5.00 44.37  39.37          5.75  44.37  39.62            5.00  37.71   32.71          5.75  37.71  31.96          5.00  44.87  39.97
1999                5.00  5.00 43.97  38.87          5.75  43.97  38.12            5.00  37.29  32.29           5.75  37.29 31.54           5.00  44.37  39.37
1999               5.00  5.00  43.37  3B.37          5.75  43.37   37.62           5.00  36.86  31.96           5.75  36.96  31.11          5.00  43.87  39.87
2000                5.00  5.00  42.97  37.97         5.75 42.97  37.12             5.00  36.44  31.44           5.75   36.44 30.69          5.00  43.37  38.37
2001                7.50  7.50  42.97  35.37         8.63 42.97  34.24             7.50  36.44  28.94            9.63  36.44 27.91          7.50  42.97 35.37
2002                7.50  7.50  42.87  35.37         8.63 42.97   34.24            7.50   36.44   2B.94          9.63   36.44 27.81         7.50  42.97 35.37
2003                7.50  7.50 42.97  35.37          9.63 42.87   34.24            7.50   36.44  20.94          9.63   36.44 27.81          7.50  42.97 35.37
2004                7.50   7.50 42.97  35.37         9.63 42.87   34.24            7.50  36.44  29.94           8.63   36.44  27.91         7.50  42.97  35.37
2005                7.50   7.50  42.87  35.37        9.63 42.97   34.24            7.50.  36.44  28.94          9.63  36.44  27.B1          7.50  42.97  35.37
2006                7.50  7.50 42.97  35.37          9.63 42.97  34.24             7.50   36.44   29.94          9.63  36.44 27.91          7.50  42.97 35.37
2007                7.50  7.50 42.87  35.37          9.63 42.97   34.24            7.50   36.44  28.94           8.63   36.44 27.91         7.50  42.87  35.37
2008                7.50  7.50 42.87 35.37           B.63 42.87  34.24             7.50  36.44  28.94           B.63  36A44 27.01           7.50 42.87 35.37         a
2009                7.50  7.50 42.87  35.37          9.63 42.97  34.24             7.50   36.44  28.94           8.63   36.44 27.91         7.50  42.97  35.37 
2010                7.50  7.50 42.97  35.37          9.63 42.97  34.24             7.50   36.44  29.94          8.63   36.44 27.91          7.50  42.97 35.37        '
Total       71.39 125.00  196.4 974.93 679.5        225.9 974.93  649.03         196.39  743.69  547.30         225.9 743.69 517.9          196.4 832.06  635.7      n
ERR   32.7 2              ERR a  29.32                  ERR:   29.8 2                 ERR    25.5 1               ERR   26.9 2
Jun-99



SffII  PMT PROJECT
Econouic Rate of Return IEPR and Sensitivity Analysis
Coal eorths
Killion un I
(20 years)
-----as A -- se---------               ---Case 1             --            Case 2- ----                                -----Ca  -----
----Costs-----    Total   let                      Net                           Net                         Net               Benefits  Net
Capital Naist-       kne-  Cash         Costs eIef its  Cash        Costs Benefit s Cash          Costs Benefits Cash        Costs (Delay   Cash
Vea        inet. mnuce  Total  fits  Flomn         (.521          Flow                 (-I51)   Flo.          1 5U) (-152)  Flow               I year)  Flow
1996         3.55         9.55       (1.551         9.93         (9.93)          9.55           (8.55)        9.93          (9.83)        9.55        (9.55)
1987        32.28        32.29       (32.21)       37.12         137.12)        32.29          (32.29)       37.12         (37.12)       32.28       (32.28)
198        74.24        74.24       (74.241       85.39         (B5.38)        74.24          (74.24)       95.38          I95.4)       74.24       (74.24)
1989        7.94          7.94         (7.9)        9.13          (9.1)          7.94           (7.9)         9.13           (9.1)       7.94         (7.94)
M90                9.61  9.61  90.15  71.5          9.90 b0.15   70.3            9.61  68.13   59.5           9.90  69.13  59.2           9.61         (9.6)
IWI                8.61  3.61 70.97  62.3           9.9  70.97   61.0            9.61  60.24   51.6           S.00  60.24  50.3          9.61          19.6)
1992               9.61  9.61 39.29 29.69           9.90 38.29  29.39            9.61  32.55  23.94           9.90  32.55 22.65           9.61  70.97 62.26
1993               5.61  9.61 25.92  17.31          9.90 25.92  16.02            8.61  22.03  13.42           9. 90  22.03  12.13        9.61 3B.29 29.68
1SS4               8.61   8.61 26.13  17.52         9.90 26.13   16.23           9.61  22.21   13.60          9.90   22.21  12.31        9.61 25.92  17.31            O
1995               8.61  9.61  26.53  17.92         9.90 26.53  16.63            3.61  22.55   13.94          9.90  22.55  12.65          3.61 26.13  17.52
I996               9.61  9.61  26.03  17.42         9.90 26.03   16.13           9.61  22.13   13.52          9.S0   22.13  12.23         8.61  26.53  17.92
lSS7               9.61  8.61 25.53  16.92          9.90 25.53   15.63           9.61  21.70  13.0S           9.90  21.70  1.90          3.61 26.03  17.42
IW8                9.61  8.61 25.03  16.42          9.90 25.03   15.13           9.61  21.29   12.67          9.90  21.29  11.38          9.61  25.53  16.92
399S               9.61  9.61 24.53  15.92          9.90 24.53   14.63           9.61  20.95  12.24           9.90  20.95  10.95          9.61  25.03  16.42
2000              12.92  12.92 29.72  15.60        14.86 29.72  13.B6           12.92  24.41   11.49          14.86  24.41   9.55        12.92 24.53  11.61
2001               12.92  12.92 29.72 35.B0        14.96 29.72   13.96          12.92  24.41   11.49          14.96  24.41   9.55        12.92 28.72  15.90
2002               12.92  12.92 28.72  15.80       14.96 28.72  13.96            12.92  24.41   11.49         14.86  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.90
2003               12.92  12.92 29.72  15.90       ;4.B6 28.72   13.Bb           12.92  24.41   11.49         14.96  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.90
2004              12.92  12.92 2B.72  35.90        14.96 29.72  13.86            12.92  24.41   11.49         14.96  24.41  9.55         12.92 29.72  15.80
2005               12.92  12.92 29.72  15.90       14.96 29.72   13.9B           12.92  24.41   11.49         14.86  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.90
2006              12.92  12.92 29.72  15.90        14.96  29.72   13.86          12.92  24.41  11.49          14.96  24.41  9.55         12.92 2B.72  15.90    ,
2007               12.92  12.92 28.72  15.B0        14.96 29.72  13.B6           12.92  24.41   11.49         14.86  24.41   9.55        12.92  29.72  15.90     .
2008              12.92  12.92 29.72  15.90        14.36 29.72   13.96           12.92  24.41   11.49         14.86  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.80 0
2009              12.92  12.92 23.72  15.80        14.86 28.72  13.36           12.92  24.41   11.49          14.96  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.90    W
2010              12.92  12.92 29.72  15.90        14.86 29.72   13.86          12.92  24.41   31.49          14.96  24.41   9.55        12.92 29.72  15.90     .
Total      123.01 228.22 351.23 684.9 333.70      403.92 634.9 281.01          351.23 592.19  230.95         403.92 582.1B 173.26       351.23 576.1 224.93    _
ERR'  21.3t               EM'   17.01                  ERR    16.32                 ERR    12.02                ERR   10.12I
Jun-98



CHIIA
SHAIIBIII PORT PRIIJECT
Econnic Ratpt of Return lERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
Total Project
M lillion Yus )
--------Base Case------    ------Case 1-                                --  Case 2- ----                  ---Case 3---                ----Case 4------
---Costs-----   Total    k;                                llet                             Net                          Ikt                 Bnefits   Net
Capital llint-         Dint-   Cash        Costs 8eneftits Cash          Costs Benfit s  Cash            Costs Benefits  Cash         Costs Ikelay    Cash
Year        vavest. mince  Total   fits   Flot         (+1511          Flow                   t-15l3   Flow           1+151) i-151)  Flot                 I yearl   Flow
19B6         62.90         62.90        (62.901        72.34         (72.34)          62.90           t62.90)         72.34         (72.34)        62.90          (62.90)
1987        160.00        160.00        -160.0        194.00        (184.00)          160.00         (160.00)       1I4.00          -184.0        160.00         1160.00)
1989       305.35         305.35        -305.4        351.15        1351.15)         305.35          (305.351        351.15         1351.2V       305.35         1305.35)
1989       214.39         214.39        (214.4)       246.55         (246.6)         214.39           (214.4)        246.55         (246.6)       214.39         (214.391
1990        148.26   8.61 156.87  90.15  (76.7)       190.40  80.15  (100.3)          156.97   68.13   (99.7)        190.40   68.13 (112.3)       156.97          (156.91
1991        52.94  61.26 114.20 251.54  137.3         131.33 251.54   120.2           114.20  213.91    99.6         131.33  213.91   92.5        114.20  80.15   134.11       N
1992         37.92  61.26  9.09 230.91 131.73         113.94 230.91  116.97           99.08  196.19   97.11          113.94  196.19  92.25         99.06 251.54  152.46
1993         10.93  65.37  76.30 268.53 192.23         97.75 269.53  190.78           76.30  229.25  151.95           87.75  228.25 140.50         76.30 230.81  154.51
1994                65.37  65.37 296.68 221.31         75.18 286.69  211.50           65.37  243.69  178.31           75.18  243.68 168.50         65.37 269.53  203.16
14?5                65.37  65.37 314.83 249.46         75.18 314.83  239.65           65.37  267.61  202.24           75.18  267.61 192.43         65.37 286.68  221.31
196                 65.37  65.37 324.28 259.91         75.18 324.28  249.10           65.37  275.64  210.27           75.19  275.64 200.46         65.37 314.83  249.46
1997                65.37  65.37 333.73 268.36         75.18 333.73  259.55           65.37  293.67  218.30           75.18  283.67 208.49         65.37 324.29  258.91
1998                65.37  65.37 343.19 277.91         75.18 343.18  269.00           65.37  291.70  226.33           75.19  291.70 216.52         65.37 333.73  269.36
1999                65.37  65.37 352.63 297.2&         75.19 352.63  277.45           65.37  299.74  234.37           75.18  299.74 224.56         65.37 343.18  277.91
2000                69.68  69.69 362.08 292.40         90.13 362.08  291.95            69.68  307.77  239.09          50.13  307.77 227.64         69.69 352.63  292.95
2001                96.01  96.01 362.08 266.07        110.41 362.00  251.67            96.01  307.77  211.76         110.41  307.77 197.36         96.01 362.06  266.07
2002                96.01  96.01 362.06 266.07        110.41 362.08  251.67            96.01  307.77  211.76-        110.41  307.77 197.36         96.01 362.08  266.07
2003                95.07  99.07 362.09 264.01        112.78 362.011  249.30           93.07  307.77  209.70         112.79  307.77 194.99         99.07 362.08  264.01
2004                98.07  99.07 362.08 264.01        112.78 362.06  249.30            98.07  307.77  219.70         112.79  307.77 194.99          92.07 362.08 264.01
2005                98.07  98.07 362.09 264.01        112.78 362.09  249.30            98.07  307.77  209.70         112.75  307.77 194.99         fG' 17 362.08 264.01
2006                98.07  99.07 362.08 264.01        112.79 362.09  249.30            98.07  307.77  209.70         112.78  307.77 194.99    .      . :7 362.08 264.01
2007                99.07  99.07 362.09 264.01        112.79 362.09  249.30            99.07 307.77  209.70          112.78  301.77 194.99          98.07 362.08 264.01        .i
2009                98.07  99.07 362.09 264.01        112.79 362.08  249.30            99.07  307.77  209.70         112.78  307.77 19.99.          98.07 362.09  264.01 .
2009                99.07  98.07 362.08 264.01        112.79 362.08  249.30            98.07  307.77  209.70         112.78  307.77 194.99         98.07 362.09  264.01O.
2010                98.07  98.07 362.08 264.01        112.78 362.09  249.30            98.07  307.77  209.70         112.78  307.77 194.99         99.07 362.08  264.01      ub
Total       992.59 1635.0 2627.6 6769.2 4141.7        3021.7 6769.2  3747.5           2627.6  5753.9  3126.3         3021.7  5753.9 2732.2        2627.6 6407.2  3779.6
ERRI   19.21                ERR   15.5 1                   ERR a    15.0 1                 ERR   12.4 2                 ERR -   15.2 2
Jon-B8



CHINA
SHA    I PORT PRUOJECT
kenodc Rate of Rtturn IEiR) and Snsitivity Analysis
6rain llrths
Iillion Yuan
/20 years)
-----bu,. Casu-- --   ---Cii l---                                               Cast 2-                  ---            3----  ----CUt 4--
----Costs----   Total    let                               bat                              Net                           kat                Bnefits   Net
Caital Ilnt-           lla-   Cash         Costs ienefits  Cash           Costs  Bnefit 5 Cash            Costs Benefits  Cash         Costs (ilay    Cas
Year        invest. enance  Total  fits   Floe         It15tl          FloN                   (-15)    Flow          (+151) (-15t)  Flow                 1 year)  Flo
-     --  -   -  --------
2M            6.43          6.43          (6.4)         7.39            (7.4)          6.43             I6.4)          7.39           17.4)         6.43          1b.43)
M990          9.27          9.27          l9.3)        10.66          10.66)           9.27            19.27)         10.66        (Il.66)          9.27          (9.271)
NSI         52.94          52.94         152.9)        60.99         I60.98)          52.94           152.94)         60.09          (60.9)        52.94         (52.94)
12         37.62          37.92         (37.3)        43.49         143.49)          37.92           (37.02)         43.49         (43.49)        37.2          137.92)
1993         10.93   4.11  15.04 3B.39   23.3          17.30  3B.38   21.09            15.04   32.62   17.59          17.30   32.62  15.32         15.04         (15.04)
I                   4.11   4.1z  41.22  37.11          4.73  41.22   36.49             4.11   35.04   30.93           4.73   35.04  30.31          4.11  39.30 34.27
195                  4.11   4.11  44.13  40.02          4.73  44.13   39.40            4.11   37.51   33.40            4.73   37.51  32.76          4.11  41.22  37.11
199                  4.11   4.11  40.13  44.02          4.73  49.13   43.40            4.11   40.91   36.90            4.73   40.91  36.19          4.11  44.13  40.M
1997                 4.11   4.11  52.12  49.01          4.73  52.12   47.39             4.11   44.30   40.19           4.73   44.30  39.57          4.11  41.13  44.02
I991                 4.11   4.11  56.12  52.01          4.73  Sb.12   51.39             4.11   47.70   43.59           4.73   47.70  42.97          4.11  52.12  49.01
199                  4.11   4.11  60.11 56.00           4.73  60.11   55.35             4.11   51.10   46.99           4.73   51.10  46.37          4.11  56.12  52.01
2000                 4.11   4.11  64.11  60.00          4.73  64.11   59.36             4.11   54.49   50.39           4.73   54.47  49.76          4.11  60.11  5b.00
2001                 4.11   4.11  64.11  60.00          4.73  64.11   59.39             4.11   54.49   50.39   .       4.73   54.4   49.76          4.11  64.11  60.00
2002                 4.11   4.11  64.11  60.0           4.73  64.11   59.38             4.11   54.49   50.38           4.73   54.49  49.76          4.11  64.11  60.O0
2003                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.21   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11  57.94
2004                 6.17   6.17  64.11   7.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   40.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11  57.94
2005                 b.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.1  57.94
2006                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.1i   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11 57.94
2007                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57D9a          7.10  64.22   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11  57.94
2008                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   4.32            7.10   34.49  47.39          b6.7  64.11 57.94           g.
2009                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   48.32           7.10   54.49  47.39          6.17  64.11  57.94 
2010                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             b.17   54.49   48.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  U.11  57.94
2011                 6.17   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11  57.4
2012                 6.27   6.17  64.11  57.94          7.10  64.11   57.01             6.17   54.49   49.32           7.10   54.49  47.39           6.17  64.11   7.9
Total       117.39 102.90 220.19 1173.n6  93.5         253.3 173.6   920.4             220.2  997.4   777.4           253.3   997.6  744.3          220.2 1109.5  M9.3
ERR a 30.0 S                ERR -   26.7 ?                 ERR a    26.2 ?                 ERR     23.1 2               ERR - 24.0 9
Jun-E0



- 84 -
Table 6.1
CHINA
SHARUAI HARBOR BUREAU
Income Statement
(Year ending 31  December)
Actual                                   Forecast                  (Y million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990         1991      1992      1993
Traffic ('000 tons)                 73,627  81,829  91,136  99,400  95,888  99,378  103,000  105,163  107,371    109,626
Revenue
Loading/unloading                 225.04  316.44  335.71  339-62  400.15  441.78   487.82   520.51   555.55            592.63
Storage                            48.68   65.85   76.67   64.44   91.34  100.84   111.35   118.81   126.81            135.27
Other                              90.78  130.18  150.34  190.70  179.42  198.08   218.73   233.38   249.09            265.72
Marketing                          50.47   54.51   60.41   55.15   71.77   79.23    87.49    93.35    99.64            106.29
Subtotal                       414.97  566.98  623.13  649.91  742.68  819.93   905.39   966.05 1.031.09   1.099.91
\         peata  taxes
oaZ*dI?87.nl.ad1.g                  6.75   10.17   10.84   10.91   12.96   14.31    15.81    16.86    18.00             19.20
Storage                              1.46    3.53    4.12    3.45    4.93    5.45         6.01     6.42      6.85        7.30
Other                               3.09    5.11    5.49    6.-1    7.75    8.56          9.45    10.08    10.76        11.48
Marketing                           0.85    1.08    1.33    1.42    1.55    1.71          1.89     2.02      2.15        2.30
Total operating tax             12.15   19.89   21.78   21.99   27.19   30.03    33.16    35.38    37.76             40.28
Met sales
Loading/unloading                 218.29  306.27  324.87  328.71  387.19  427.47   472.01   503.65   537.55            573.43
Storage                            47.22   62.32   72.55   60.99   86.41   95.39   105.34   112.39   119.96            127.97
Other                              87.69  125.07  144.85  184.49  171.67  189.52   209.28   223.30   238.33            254.24
Marketing                          49.62   53.43   59.08   53.73   70.22   77.52    85.60    91.33    97.49            103.99
Total net sales                402.82  547.09  601.35  627.92  715.49  789.90   872.23   930.67   993.33   1,059.63
d             o Loadl78/l°ding        83.71   99.87  121.29  135.37  153.94  172.86   193.13   209.41   226.41            244.02
Storage                            11.11   12.02   16.14   18.51   19.5;   21.61    23.86    25.46    27.17             28.99
Other                              31.31   44.87   62.15   81.92   90.94   99.63   109.14   116.18   123.66            131.51
Marketing                          42.67   45.60   51.90   48.06   61.98   68.43    75.56    80.62    86.05             91.79
total operating costS          168.80  202.36  251.48  283.86  326.43  362.53   401.69   431.67   463.29            496.31
2 4rPatIn ProfIt
Lodiin8i/unloading                134.58  206.40  203.58  193.25  233.25  254.61   278.88   294.24   311.14            329.41
Storage                            36.11   50.30   56.41   42.46   66.84   73.78    81.48    86.93    92.79             98.98
Other                              56.38   80.20   82.70  102.51   80.73   89.89   100.14   107.12   114.67            122.73
Narketing                           6.95    7.83    7.18    5.63    8.24    9.09    10.04    10.71    11.44             12.20
Total operattag profit         234.02  344.73  349.87  343.85  389.06  427.37   470.54   499.00   530.04            563.32
Non-operating income                   0.56    0.77    0.51    0.60    0.65    0.72         0.80     0.85      0.91        0.97
Non-operating expenses                14.99   17.94   23.55   37.27   28.05   30.97    34.20    36.49    38.95            41.55
Other Income                          0.00    0.41    1.26          -    1.52    1.84       2.37      3.19     4.49        6.60
Profit before taxes                 219.59  327.97  328.09  307.18  363.18  398.95   439.51   466.55   496.49            529.34
Income tax                        120.77  180.38   51.55   51.55   51.55   51.55    51.55    51.55    51-.55            51.55
Adjustment taxes                   54.90   81.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00
Other payment to state             21.00   21.00   21.00   21.00   21.00   21.00    21.00    21.00    21.00             21.00
Net profit after taxes              22.92   44.60  255.54  234.63  290.63  326.41   366.96   394.00   423.94            456.79
Operating ratio                     41.9    37.0    41.8   45.2   4-546 45.9             46.1      46.4      45.6        46.8
Return on assets ecployed               -    44.7    42.3    38.1    34.7    29.8         27.0     24.4      22.6        21.3



CHINA
SHANGHAI RARBOR BUREAU
Balance Sheet (at December 31)
Actual                                  Forecast                                     (Y million)
1984       1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990        1991       1992        1993
Assets
Fixed assets - at cost               986.67  1,084.95  1,132.06  1,279.80  1,631.96  1,984.12  2,336.26  2,691.26  3,046.26   3,401.26
less depreciation                  258.27    272.12    292.58    314.61    352.68    392.29    438.28    490.69    549.53            614.79
Subtotal                          728.40    812.83    839.48    965.19  1,279.28  1,591.83  1,.97.98  2,200.57  2,496.73   2,786.47
Current assets
Inventory                           29.47      43.82      86.85      57.49     77.36      86.13      95.67    102.92    110.57       118.58
Receivables                        334.27      30.70      43.18    100.41      51.99      57.40      63.38      67.62      72.18      76.99
Cash                               127.82    139.11    191.42    143.48    114.51    160.46    246.00    311.67    355.18            431.62
Subtotal                          191.56    213.72    321.45    301.38    243.86    303.99    405.05    482.21    537.93            627.19
Special fund assets                   57.20      77.72    198.10    365.81    301.51    363.73    434.26    510.40    589.76           675.89
Total assets                      977.16  1.104.27  1,359.03  1,632.38  1,824.65  2,259.55  2.737.29  3,193.18  3,624.42   4,089.55
Liabilities and Equlty
State funds-contributed              721.23    778.16    777.72    849.68    849.68    849.68    849.68    849.68    849.68            849.68
Internal funds for port development  0.00         0.00       0.00      30.74    167.83    431.96    728.45  1,046.31  1,375.89   1,746.55
L/T loans - IBRD                        7.17     34.67      61.76      84.77      83.93    166.09    248.25    288.41    272.74         257.07
Current liabilities                  101.22    114.63    187.50    219.48    232.07    258.40    287.02    308.75    331.72             355.73
Special funds                        147.54    176.81    332.05    447.71    491.14    553.42    623.89    700.03    794.39            880.52
Total liabilities and Equity    977.16  1,104.27  1,359.03  1,632.38  1,824.65  2,259.55  2,737.29  3,193.18  3,624.42   4,089.55
Debt: capital (1)
current ratio
Sources and Application of Funds
Sources
Net profit                            22.92      44.60    255.54    234.63    290.63    326.41    366.96    394.00    423.94            456.79
Depreciation                           12.60     13.85      20.46      22.03      38.07     39.61      45.99      52.41      58.84       65.26
State contribution                    72.35      56.93      (0.44)      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Borrowing - IBRD                      18.84      27.50      27.09      23.01      0.00      83.00      83.00      41.00       0.00        0.00
Total sources                     126.71    142.88    302.65    279.67    328.70    449.02    495.95    487.41    482.78            522.05
.lplications
Capital expenditure                   86.33      98.28      47.11    147.74    352.16    352.16    352.14    355.00    355.00           355.00
Special fund expenditure             130.00      35.85    220.68    183.98        45.81     62.22      70.53      76.14      79.36       86.13
Loan repayment - IBRD                  72.35     56.93      (0.44)      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Change w/capital                     (37.48)    (2.54)   (17.45)    (4.11)   (41.14)   (12.15)   (13.10)   (10.24)   (10.76)    (11.19)
Total applications                178.85    131.59    250.34    327.61    357.67    403.07    410.41    421.74    439.27            445.61
Net funds flow                          (52.14)    11.29      52.31    (47.94)   (28.97)    45.95        85.54      65.67      43.51       76.44
Opening balance                       179.96    127.82    139.11    191.42    143.48    114.51    160.46    246.00    311.67            355.18
Closing balance                      127.82    139.11    191.42    143.48    114.51    160.46    246.00    311.67    355.18             431.62



- 86 -
----------------
, I              I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                        I
I~ ~~~~~~~ I         I
+1t~~______                          I
X~~~~I I,I~II



_ 87 -
CHINA
MICAL ORGANIZATION OF DISTRICT
Director Of
Harbour Bureau
Director Of Distict
& General Manager
Deputy Director            Deput Director               Deputy Director             D"D
of Technology    I  of Operations       ~of M                    [nDeputytDrector
of Tehnf    J           ofCw fos& Administration                           [      of Logistics
1         ~~~Container                                              Hoin
Warldhop                    Terminal                                                                     L       udIIo
Machiney                        Ik
Teams                      Terminal                     Planning     |Soe
Faclitty                   Grl                         Personnel                     Health
'eslgn &            ~~~~Traffic                                            Educational
_ gneerin_                   Control                     Enterprlse    lc
Warehouie                                              Security. Waer.
Operation                   Accuntng                            Etc
l  Management |
SeAces
World Bank - 41635:2



MAP SECTION
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



131'                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .Iw ZU,
Changsh.                       0Chonmim,ng                                            Booshon Steel Mill
31 Y30                                                    31'30-                             Booshon
JIA NG.S 1J
Kunshon0              n    aoshan°      ,/
l                         J                               wel9.cqinj        t               N        TI DISTRICT NO 9
Ara of Mp MaJ                                   GENpP,, CApG
oingpu  Shangho                                                           AND CONTAINERS
0          .        .                                Wusong
S HA tO // f A/   5111                                      .   h      sGENERAL CARGO
-   Nanhut                                               DNGERU   AG
Mhang                0                                                   AND CONTAINERS
,>      >      ~~~~~Sangiigng                      31tl0-               1' -         N jb
\'  .             ~             -      0 Fengx,on                                - -                                               Gaoqiao
) Jinshn.
Z H E i IA N G
Future TenmnolI
County Boundaries
__      2lfic0                1214a3'                                                                  t
C AL.    D Ihr _me
DISTRICT NO. 5                  DISTRICT NO. 3        .
GENERAl CARGO    I       GENERAL CARGO
INT'L  PASSENGERS      IPASSENGER TERMINAL
DISTRICT NO. 
GRAIN, COAL
LI Y-K    /   ';D-NJf RS,-  _    I,  \  ,GENERAL CARGO
Miinhnt                   N.
P ENGER TERA,_NALS                              I DISTRICT NO  1
DISTRICT NO  12                   SALT RUBER
lGENE   CARGOGEERL CRG
7    CONSTRUCTION
J  MATERIALS COAL  ~~~~.COA
Hangqiao
Intern,Wione I-      o                 tW          
DIST,GENERICT NARGO.  .                                        NO 41
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT PROJECT
Proposed Projects*
i  <  r -- n Existing Port Terminals
Roads
Railroads
To Hongzhou                                                                        Built-up Areas
[   / MoNGollA  )     .       <            l l         Guangong                                                  Rivers and Creeks
>    L      --                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.tE'M PEOCtE'S i 
i  REP OF KOREA    |                                                                  National Copital
Sn5,,R EP OF                                                                                          Province Boundaries
KOREA JAPA.                                                           - .        Internotional Boundaries
'See IBRD 20747 for detail
0         2        4         6         8        10
KILOMETERS
! 1-    .  '                                        T o rO Minhong                                        '- > =
Ft                .O I                       -Ks ONG. u.K.    _ .-.  r.OA  a zI
KA       O N A        M           Development Zone T
NAM             PA
MAY 1988



Wvig bultdivs to be -,Nd
CHINA
190
0      100              3
SHANGHAI PORT                                                                                                                                                           METERS
,'4-
GUANGANG TERMINAL                                                                                                                                          Rp
LAYOUT
"c,om"I[x
190   2O   3
METERS
12
71
'GAII
GA.1
IC,
r3
\%
MINSHENG TERMII'
ZHUJIAMEN TERMINAL LAYOLIT
LAYOUT
I?D         290         300
0
METERS
BAOSHAN TERMINAL LAYC
FUMOE DEVELOPMENT'
ARE.
0    100   200
METERS
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                                                 Cd t,
'EA                                                                                                            -------      - - - - - - -
B-h-
-O
0
Q..q-
1IE1
OWKE,
Shanghai -
IL
-.1 OF
-W        JOAN                                                                                        ITION
P,.p..d P,.j.&
B.ilt-.p A-
V
OL    5I       p                  -- Li
`ILOs



