Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&A/ 30026-G,-c~Hf
Report No. 7297-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
NINGBO AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
NINGBO PORT
November 16, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the. official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1988)
Currency name       =   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency unit       =   Yuan (Y)
US$1.00             =   Y 3.7O
US$0.27             =   Y 1.00
US$270,270          =   Y 1,000,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decemtor 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                  British/Chinese
1 meter (m)      2             3.281 feet
1 square meter (s2)     =      10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )             35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)        =      0.621 mile
=      0.5396 nautical mile
1 ton-km                =      0.621 ton-mile
1 ton                   =      2,204 pounds
1 hectare (ha)          =      2.469 acres
-14.993 mu
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAPRC      - Audit Administration of the People's Republic
of China
ADT        -  Average Daily Traffic
cif        -  Cost, insurance'and freight
COSCO      -  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
CNTIC      -  China National Technical Import Corporation
dwt        -  Dead weight tons
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Return
FYP        -  Five Year Plan
FY         -  Fiscal Year
GOC        -  Government of China
LRMC       -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MLW        -  Mean Low Water
MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
MR         -  Ministry of Railways
NM         -  Ningbo Municipality
NPA        - Ningbo Port Authority
NPV        -  Net Present Value
nrt        -  Net registered ton
PBC           People's Bank of China
SPC        -  State Planning Commission
teu        -  Twenty-foot equivalent unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
NINGBO AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
NINCBO PORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  People's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:             Ningbo Port Authority (NPA) and Shanghai Harbor
Bureau (SHB)
Amount:                     $76.4 million equivalent:  $30.0 million for Ningbo;
and $46.4 million for Shanghai.
Terms:                     Twenty years, inciuding five years of grace, at the
standard variable izterest rate.
Relending Terms:           Out of the proceeds of the loan,$30 million would be
onlent by the Government to NPA under a subsidiary
loan agreement with a 20-year term, including 5
years of grace, at an interest rate of 5X p.a.  The
foreign exchange risk between the dollar and RMB and
commitment fees would be borne by NPA.
Project Objectives:        The principal objective of the project is to assist
the Government in its efforts to improve operations,
relieve congestion and increase the handling
capacity in the ports subsector. The project would
provide for infrastructure development at key ports
in China, as well as technical assistance and train-
ing to strengthen the ports' managements and improve
their operating capabilities and to address long-
term aspects of port development.
Project Descrietion:       The proposed project includes developments at Ningbo
(Ningbo Port)            port which consist of:  (a) construction of one
container berth and two general purpose berths
capable of being converted to container berths as
and when needed, together with the necessary
infrastructure including two causeways, yards,
railways, roadways, water supply, sewerage and power
supply eystems; (b) provision of the required
loading/unloading equipment, some harbor operation
equipment, boats and computers; and (c) provision of
the technical assistance needed to implement an
action plan to improve port operations; update the
master plan; carry out a port optimization study;
and train port personnel.
Riski:                     The project has no significant risks since all
components involve proven technology that has been
in extended use in China or in other parts of the
world.
This document has anrstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



Estimated Project Costs:                   Local           Foreign        Total
(Ningbo Port)                           ---      - (US$ million) ----------
Civil works                                15.7             23.4            39.1
Equipment                                   1.4             20.2           21.6
Training                                    0.5              0.4             0.9
Technizal assistance                        3.0              1.7             4.7
Subtotal                              20.6              45.7           66.3
Contingencies
Physical                                  2.1              4.6            6.7
Price                                     0.8              1.9            2.7
Total Project Cost                      23.5             52.2           75.7
Financing Plan (Ningbo Port):
Bank lan                                 -               30.0           30.0
NPA/Government                           23.5             22.2           45.7
Total                                  23.5             52.2           75.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank PY                  1989   1990   1991       1992      1993
-------- (US-millionT -----------
Annual                         5       9      8         5         3
Cumulative                     5      14     22        27        30
Economic Rate of Return (Ningbo Port): 26X
MEs    IBRD 20284
IBRD 20932



- iii 
CHINA
NINGBO, XIAMEN AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
NINGBO PORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................        1
| A* Traffic*..*...................................                                I
C. Land Transport Systems........................................    2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s............         3
II.   THE PORTS SUBSECTOR      .............      ...........*.***         4
A. Port Traffic............................................          4
B.  Organization and Management .......................o ......      5
C.  Operations and Maintenanceo......e.e. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .  6
D.  Investment Priorities and Technology....................         7
F. The Role of the Bank....................................          9
C.  Experience in Past Lending..............................        10
III.  NINGBO PORT ........................................ 1O
A.  Regional Transport Network...............................       11
B. Existing Facilities ..OfoOOO.000000.............                ........................ 12
C* Port Traffic .........e..........................o....s....o...o....e  13
D. Port Operations .............e eoooooose.ooo.o.o..              .............. 13
E.  Port Organization and Management............... o......         14
F.  Planning, Blidgeting, Accounting and Auditing************       14
This report was written by Ismail Mobarek, George Tharakan, Hank Yen and Nils
Birgander, who appraised the project in March 1988. Keith Thomas assisted
with the financial analysis.



- iv -
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT             ...........................                    15
A.  Project Obee                   c    t    i    v     e    s         15
B.  Project Description......................... ............          15
C.  Cost Estimates...t        ie...                                    17
D.  Financing Plal.....an...                                  .        19
E. Implementation ..                                        00   19
F.  Procurement*m...t                                                  20
C. Disbursements ......                                                21
H.  Ecology and Environment. ....       ..... . ..... *....*.. . .     21
r.  Reporting and Project Completion Report po           rt...         21
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION...U.................                  ....o..      22
A.  Break-Bulk and Container Traffic.a ff....c..0.0....000             22
B.  Impact on Operations...         ..... ............6o ................  23
C.  Costs and B eie                       f     i     t     s          23
D.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysislysis.......            25
E .  Project Risk sk                                      .            26
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSISN................                                    26
A   Past Results...           ..............                 .         26
B.  Present Financial Positions.....                                   27
C.  Future Financial Performance........................               28
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS................           29
ANNEXES
1.   Documents in the Project File
2.   Training Program
3.   Training and Technical Assistance:  Schedule and Estimated Cost
4.   Terms of Reference:  Updating the Master Plan for the Port of Ningbo
5.   Terms of Reference:  Port Development Optimization Study
6.   Environmental Cond'tions in the Port
7.   Port Operations, Maint4nance and Environmental Improvement Action Plan
8.   Semi-Annual Progress Reports



TABLES
3.1   Economic and Demographic Data for the Hinterland
3.2   Existing and Proposed Berths
3.3   Port Traffic and Forecasts, 1981-2000
3.4   Shipping Statistics, 1986
4.1   Project Cost Summary
4.2   Project Cost Estimates (US$)
4.3   Project Cost Estimates (RMB)
4.4   List of Cargo Handling Equipment
4.5   Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
5.1   Traffic Projections Used in the Economic Analysis
5.2   Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
5.3   Project Economic Cost Estimates
5.4   Ship Time Asialysis Without and With Proposed Berths
5.5   Loading/Unloading Cost Savings
5.6   Container Sea Transport Costs and Savings
5.7   Economic Benefits Summary
5.8   Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.1   NPA:  Income Statements
6.2   NPA:  Funds Flow Statements,, 1983-94
6.3   NPA:  Balance Sheets, 1983-94
6.4   Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
CHARTS
A.    Organization Chart of NPA
B.    Implementation Schedule
C.    Procurement Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 20932
IBRD 20284



CHINA
NINCBO, XIAMEN AND SHANGHAI PORTS PROJECT
NINGBO PORT 1/
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1       Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. The
rapid growth of China's economy in recent years has stimulated an increasing
demand for the shipment of commodities of all sorts, and for passenger travel
as well. Efforts to reduce waste within the transport system (for example, by
eliminating cross-hauling of the same commodity, increasing the prccessing of
raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity of road snd
waterway utilization) are certainly desirable, and are being pursued. More
fundamentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation
shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's capacity, by
increasing the productivity of existing facilities wherever possible, and by
building new facilities where necessary.
A. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1986 by all modes
reached 1,383 billion ton-km, representing an 8Z increase over 1985 and an
average annual growth rate since 1952 of almost 9%, consistently higher than
the growth of domestic product. By the year 2000, domestic freight traffic
could be in the range of 3,000 billion ton-km. The modal split has moved
toward a more balanced use of modes, with the railways' dominant share of 822
ia 1952 reduced to 63% by 1986.
1.3       Pa_senge. traffic reached 459 billion passenger-km (p-km) in 1986,
up 72 over 1985 and representing an average annual growth ra.ce of 11 since
1978 and almost 92 since 1952.  This illustrates the increasing demand for
travel as income grows.  It is likely that this growth would have been even
more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity of the
transport sector, particularly the railways, to offer more pass;nger services.
Railways are the major passenger carrier, handling 562 of the traffic in
1986. Despite the rapid growth of passenger traffic in recent years, the
mobility of the Chinese people is still much lower than that of people in
countries with comparable income levels. By the turn of the century,
passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion p-km per year.
1/   The Ningbo Port Project is a component of a proposed project (Ningbo and
Shanghai Ports Project), the other component of which is for Shanghai
port. The Ningbo component is referred to in the text of this report as
the Project.



- 2 -
B. Investment
1.4       Over the -period 1953-85, some Y 154 billion, or 14% of all new
investments under central government corn:rol, went to transport. In
comparison with other countries, annual levels of transport investment appear
to have been on the low side, a factor contributing to transport now being a
bottleneck to economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of
coal had accumulated in Shanxi Province for lack of transport, and seme of
this stockpiled coal was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a
recent policy of curtailing production to match available transport, the
volume of coal stockpiled in Shanxi has again begun increasing. Rural areas
are short of transport, beth for agriculture and for other rural
enterprises. In the ports, lack of proper handling facilities is hampering
trade in bulk commodities such as fertilizers, cement and grain. In the
coming decades, a much Larger investment effort will be needed in transport if
these bottlenecks are to be overcome.
C. Land Transport Systems
1.5       The railway system, in 1986, consisted of some 52,000 route-km, of
which about 10,600 km are double or multiple-track and t,430 km are
electrified. The network is served by 12,270 locomotives, 314,540 freight
cars and 22,140 passenger coaches. At present, 61Z of tractive power is still
steam, 33% diesel and 61 electric. Freight traffic density averages 16.7 mil-
lion net ton-km per route-km which is the second highest freight density in
the world after the Soviet Union, and nearly twice that of the United
States. Freight traffic reached 877 billion t-km in 1986. Growth averaged
5.6% p.a. since 1978, and reached 7.8% in 1986. Three-quarters of all freight
traffic involves ten commodities including coal, timber, iron and steel, grain
and construction materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.9 million pas-
senger-km per route-km is now the world's highest. In 1986 1.1 billion
passengers were carried. The average annual increase since 1978 has been
101. Despite some possible rationalization in the transport of raw materials
and heavy industrial outputs, there i: no question but that the transport
demand for the major commodities will continue to grow rapidly. Thus, although
its share of the total is expected to decrease, rail traffic will continue to
grow, requiring massive investments in line capacity, motive power and rolling
stock well into the  2_-ure.
1.6       The highway system comprised about 962,800 km in 1986, of which
about 204,000 km were asphalt paved, about 758,800 km, gravel and sand paved.
Despite impressive expansion of the road network since 1949, when only e)ome
80,000 km of motorable roads existed, the roads in China today are inadequate
because: (a) pavement strength and quality are poor; (b) there are many
thousand kilometers of extremely rough macadam-surfaced roads carrying in
excess of 300 average daily traffic (ADT); (c) congestion is severe near
cities, due to the mixing of slow and fast moving traffic; and (d) there are
gaps of about 4,000 km in major national roads linking large cities and
provincial capitals. The road network and road transport in China today can
therefore only be characterized as underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however,
is well organized and currently absorbs much of the attention and resources of
the provincial and other local road authorities. Except in western China, the



highway network is still very much a system of feeder roads to the railways.
Nevertheless, motor traffic has reportedly grown at a very high overall annual
average of 152 on the national highways since 1978.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.7       The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. Coal
transportation is a particularly serious case because of its significance for
energy supply and hence for industrial growth. At present, trans')ort
represents a greater constraint on the supply of energy than does coal mine
development. China also needs to substantially expand its port and waterway
facilities to relieve the growing constraint to external trade caused by
inadequate berth capacity and container handling capability. There is need
for dramatically expanded road transport, to serve a multiplicity of needs,
including access to and from porLs. Increasing specialization and the rapid
growth of light manufactures have created an urgent demand for better road
transport and integrated intermodal (IIM) services. Road transport also will
be called upon to meet a growing share of the demand for passenger
transportation from an increasingly mobile population.
1.8       China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (7th FYP, 1986-90) acknowledges all
these sectoral needs. By the end of the Plan period, freight traffic is
projected to be 45X higher than in 1985, and passenger traffic 6CZ higher,
with a greater share of the increase falling on road transport. To meet these
needs, substantial investments are envisioned, especially in new rail lines,
double-tracking and electrification of existing lines, new highways, and more
berths at deep-water potts. The Plan also aims to secure efficiency gains in
transportation from operational improvements; these include the development of
integrated intermodal transportation networks, in particular for coal
transportation and for import/export trade, and technological improvements
such as container-handling facilities and intermodal transport terminals. To
facilitate these developments, the Plan envisions significant institutional
changes in the sector, including an extension of the policy of separating the
functions of government from those of operating enterprises and delegating
greater authority to the latter (recently begun in the ports subsector,
paras. 2.4-6). Continuing adjustment of prices for transportation services is
expected to assist the funding of investments in the sector from internally
generated resources,
1.9       The Bank subscribes to the Government's objectives for development
of the transport sector, and is supporting its initiatives with both financial
and technical assistance. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2540-CHA,
2678/Cr. 1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signalling
eq.,Apment; a fourth Railway Project, approved by the Executive Directors on
June ;3, 1988, provides for strategic studies tor technological modernization,
as well as expansion of line capacities and manufacturing facilities. Four
highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit 1594-CHA, mnd Loan 2811/Credit 1792 and two
additional projects approved by the Execut.4e Ulrectors on June 9, 1988)
involve the construction or improvement ao  b.th national and rural roads.
Port-related activities are described in paras 2.21-2.22.  Besides these



- 4 -
subsector-specific operations, the Bank recently has begun to assist che
Government in conducting strategic studies and implementing projects of a
wider nature. For example, a review of the utilization of water transport was
completed in 1987 a comprehensive transportation study for Guangdong Province
is in progress, and a provincial transport sector project is being prepared
for Jiangsu Province which includes highway and inland waterrJay
improvements. A study of coal transportation is planned for FY89-90 to
complement the recent'y completed study of coal pricing and an ongoing study
of coal utilization.
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
2.1       China has 15 major deep-water ports; six of these (Shanghai, Dalian,
Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Huangpu and Tianjin) handle over 80% of the total
traffic. Shanghai, with 102 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the
world. In 1987, it handled 128 million tons of cargo and more than 12 million
pessengers. Ningbo Port, which is close to Shanghai, is one of China's few
natural deep-water ports and is the only deep-water port on China's mid-
eastern seaboard. There are also many minor ports along China's extensive
coastline and 110,000 kms of navigable waterways.
A. Port Traffic
2.2       Compared to other developing countries, China's port  .caffic is low
in rs:lation to the size of its economy. However, it has been growing rapidly
since the economy was opened to foreign trade: between 1977 and 1986 traffic
at the 15 major ports more than doubled, to 344 million tons. Tonnages of
domestic and foreign cargoes are increasing about equally but foreign traffic
is growing at a faster rate.  Foreign trade is expected to cnntirue growing in
step with the economy as a whole; the Sev2nth Five-Year Plan envisions total
port traffi^ reaching 500 million tons by 1990, which will be more than 50%
higher than the volume in 1985. About one third of total traffic is coal
which moves mainly from northern coal loading ports for distribution through
ports on the south and east coasts. Bottlenecks in coal transport are seen as
a major constraint to continued rapid economic growth. Other bulk and neo-
bulk cargoes also feature prominently in water-borne traffic. These include
iron ore, grain, fertilizer, construction materials, timber and cement.
General cargo usually makes up 10-20Z of the traffic at the major ports.
2.3       Cargo un  :zation has only just been introduced in China, and the
potential for growtn in unitized cargo movements using containers and pallets
is very large. In 1986, total port container traffic was 620,000 teu (twenty-
foot-equivalent units). In the first eight months of 1987, total
containerized cargo amounted to 3.3 million tons; this represented a 21%
increase over the same period in 1986. There are now 21 ports that handle
containers and 13 specialized container berths with a total throughput
capacity of over 1 million teu.



B. Organization and Management
2.4       One of the most important challenges facing the management of
China's ports is how to adapt the ports to the changing circumstances brought
about by the economic reforms. While the reforms were initiated in China in
1979, the port sub-sector was not affected by them until ;984, when the
Ministry of Communications (HOC) started the process of port decentraliza-
tion. Three features of the reforms in the port-sector will bet self-
financing of port operations; investments funded by internal cash generation;
and increasing competition among ports for cargo. Before the reforms, MOC set
tariffs, allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major investments,
covered any deficits, and received most of the surpluses generated by the
ports. Now only a portion of the total cargo is allocated, tariffs for
unallocated cargo are allowed to be set competitively within a narLow range,
and profits are retained by the ports and are subject to taxes. The tax
arrangements, however, tend to be ad hoc (usually fixed, lump-sum payments),
and are apparently based on the needs of individual ports to retain
surpluses. In the future, the Government plans to reduce progressively
controlled allocation of traffic, reform tariffs and taxation policies, and
phase o--t grant financing of investments.
2.5       The first port to be decentralized was Tianjin under a "Pilot System
Reform" introduced in 1984. Under this trrangement the primary leadership of
the port was tranferred from HOC to the local government. This has meant that
the port received a great degree of autonomy in management, investment
planning and control over its finances. As pa?; of the decentralization
arrangement, Tianjin port was also exempted from paying any profits tax up to
the year 1990. In 1986, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian were also
decentralized with somewhat modified provisions regarding taxes and grant
financing of investments. They are required to pay a fixed lump sum tax,
require MOC approval of large investments, and will receive some grant
financing through 1990. Huangpu port was similarly decentralized, though
specific provisions were again slightly different. All of the remaining ports
under HOC control are to be decentralized by the end of 1988.
2.6       The main objectives of this program of decentralization are to
develop the capability and initiative of the ports' local managements, and to
increase co-ordination between port development and the development plans of
the region served by a port. Further, it is expected that the need to be
financially self-sufficient and to compete for cargo will encourage efficiency
in the ports sub-sector. Recent coments by Chinese leaders have expressed
satisfaction with the program in general, and while it is still too early to
evaluate the different models adopted, it appears that future policy wili tend
to be more even handed and uniform in its treatment of various ports. Key
elements of that policy will relate to taxation, tariffs and the financing of
investments, and in order to develop efficient policies, there is a need to
improve the iriormation available on port operations, costs and finances. In
support of the government's initiatives in this area, the Bank is assisting
HOC in conducting a number of studies including research on alternative
organizational forms employed in other countries and development of port
costing systems (para. 2.20).



C. Operations and Maintenance
2.7       Most major ports in China operate around the clock with a three-
shift system, but operations are increasingly hampered by congestion inside
the port areas. One major factor contributing to congestion is over-aged and
outmoded equipment; another is an excessive reliance on breakbulk cargo
handling methods which have been replaced in most major ports of the world by
various forms of cargo unitization (containers, pallets, etc.). Another
factor is a lack of adequate hinterland transport capacity at most of China's
major ports. In addition, the tariff structure is distorted (paras. 2.15-
2.20) and fails to provide incentives for efficient utilization of existing
facilities. In particular, the current port tariff does not encourage effi-
cient use of often limited port storage facilities, and the use of more effi-
cient unitized cargo handling techniques.
2.8       Port congestion peaked in 1985 when average ship delays for foreign
trade vessels were as high as 11 days. This improved somewhat in 1986 as a
result of government restrictions on imports, but port congestion is beginning
to increase again with average waiting times in excess of 4-5 days in many of
the major ports. These expensive ship delays can be traced to a number of
deficiencies in addition to the lack of an adequate number of berths. Poor
documentation procedures and inadequate intormation systems in the ports often
lead to delays caused by documents not being available in time, and/or the
port not having the right equipment available when a ship is ready to start
loading/discharging cargo.
2.9       There is also a need to rationalize cargo movements.  In many of the
southern and eastern ports, a large proportion of the traffic involves ship-
to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be avoided by direct
movements between smaller pov-ts through the use of modern sea-going barges
capable of operating on both ;oastal routes and inland waterways. MOC has
begun efforts to rationalize traffic flows, and as part of the proposed Ningbo
Port Project, a study of cargo and shipping movements in the mid-eastern
region will be undertaken.
2.10      Efforts are under way to improve the productivity of port
operations. Recently, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian have each retained
consultants to review their operations, identify weaknesses and recommend
improvements. At the ports of Ningbo, Xiamen and Shanghai, the Bank has
similarly mounted major reviews of operations and maintenance, and has agreed
with these ports on action plans to achieve specified performance targets
within a specified time frame. The problems with productivity in China's
ports, however, have less to do with poor operational practices, and are more
related to the lack of adequate specialized facilities. As a result bulk
cargoes are often being handled inefficiently at break-bulk facilities.
Container handling capacity is well below the potential for contLinerized
cargo, and little attention has been given to achieving productivity improve-
ments through cargo unitization. There is a clear need to improve the
availability of specialized bulk handling facilities and to increase the level
of cargo unitization for break-bulk cargoes.



-7-
2.11      Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth
productivity levels for general cargo often being as low as 50% of that
achievable with unitized cargo handling. Whereas in foreign trade some
progress has beer. made through containerization, in the domestic trade little
has been achieved to date. Palletization of break-bulk cargo and through
movement of pallets are feasible and cost-effective means for increasing
unitization of domestic break-bulk cargo, and savings would result both from
improved productivity and from reductions in cargo damage and loss. The
problems to be overcome however are both technological and institutional, with
the latter being perhaps the more critical. MOC has initiated efforts to
introduce through pallet concepts with a pilot scheme to be implemented
between Cuangdong Province and Hainan Island. Lessons learned there,
especia'ly concerning tne organization of through transport movements, will
benefit not only the introduction of through pallets in the domestic trades,
but also the through movement of containers in foreign trade. It must, how-
ever, be emphasized that many of the initiatives needed are beyond the power
of the ports: for instance the need for tariff reform (para.2.18), and the
coordination of other entities, such as freight forwarders, involved in the
through movement of cargo.
2.12      Inadequate rail and road links in a number of the ports hinder the
smooth flow of cargo through the ports, cause congestion in port storage
facilities, and increase costs to shippers. The proper interfacing of
different transportation modes is an aspect of port development which is now
receiving the urgent attention of MOC; however, only road connections are
within HOC's own jurisdiction, while railways are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Railways (MR).  MR is itself facing a serious shortage of
capacity, and the coordination of its own priority projects with those of MOC
is important.
2.13      Each major port has its own maintenance works and port equipment is
kept serviceable, although much of the equipment suffers frequent breakdowns
because of age. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation at the
estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Some of the
dredging may be excessive and could be reduced through hydrographic work to
provide a better understanding of estuarine flows.
D. Investment Priorities and Technology
2.14      In the 7th FYP, Government proposes to invest over Y 10 billion in
the port subsector. Major investments include 120 deep-water berths and 80
smaller ones, which together with other improvements would increase deep-water
harbor capacity to 500 million tons by 1990, more than 50% above that in
1985. One of the Government's priorities for the 7th FYP is to update tech-
nology. For ports, this will involve in particular: (a) palletization and
containerization of break-bulk cargo; (b) specialized handling equipment for
bulk cargo, the majority of which is now mixed with general cargo handling,
resulting in low efficiency; and (c) computerization of documentation flow and
mAnagement information.



- 8 -
E. Tariffs
2.15      The structure and level of port tariffs are determined jointly by
the MOC, MOF and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure was set
up in 1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade vessels) on the basis of
a somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to the different port services.  The
structure also reflects all the distortions inherent in the prices cf the dif-
ferent factor inputs. As a first step in rationalizing tariffs, the HOC has
agreed to undertake a port costing study with the assistance of the Bank
(para. 2.20).
2.16      There are two tariffs in China's ports, one for foreign trade and
another, lower one, for domestic trade. In foreign trade, it is understood
that foreign ships pay the published harbor dues and charges while Chinese
ships pay lower rates. About 80% of all Chinese cargo is carried in vessels
owned or operated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), which is
controlled directly by MOC. In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO are
little more than a transfer payment between two parts of MOC. Tariff rates
could be set for efficiency objectives, but instead they seem to reflect the
relative financial strengths of COSCO and the ports and their different
investment requirements. By contrast, rates for foreign vessels seem to be
set on the basis of what the market will bear. A 40% increase was effected in
February 1985, but there was no increase in the lower rates charged for
domestic vessels.
2.17      There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship waiting time, but these charges are paid
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been sign-
ing despatch agreements with ship operators guaranteeing a certain turn around
time, with demurrage charges payable by  q' port if the time is exceeded or
premiums payable by the ship if it is handled faster. Usually the premiums
far exceed the demurrage charges.
2.18      Tariff reform is necessary both to assure the future financial
health of the ports and to ensure that port tariffs provide incentives for
efficient utilization of port assets. In many instances the present tariff
structure is inefficient on both counts, For instance, the relative prices
for handling break-bulk cargo, palletized cargo and container cargo do not
reflect costs and actually discourage shippers from the introduction of more
efficient unitized cargo handling technology. Also, relatively low port
storage charges encourage shippers to over-utilize port storage facilities
thereby causing congestion in the ports. Therefore, in approaching port
tariff reform it is important to focus not only on the level of tariffs but
also on the structure.
2.19      Existing tax agreements between the ports and the Ministry of
Finance are due to expire in 1990, and future tax and tariff policies are
presently under review. In order to establish new tax and tariff policies
which will ensure both the financial health of the ports and the efficient
utilization of port facilities, there is an immediate need to improve the
information available on port operations and finances. In a number of areas,



_9 _                                                  I
the information systems now in place are inadequate. Ports have an
insufficient awareness of the cost of providing specific services and the
adequacy of depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover future
liabilities.  Further, in view of the elimination of grant financing and the
large investments planned for China's ports (to accommodate increased trade
flows and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), future
financial liabilities of the ports are likely to increase rapidly. For the
above reasons, it is now especially important for the government and port
managers to pay special attention to costing port operations, managing their
finances, and assuring the long term viability of investments.
2.20      To address the need for an accurate and uniform system of costing at
the ports, the Bank has undertaken discussions with MOC on developing a
managment information system. Terms of reference for developing a Port
Costing and Management Information System (PCMIS) were discussed and agreed
with MOC, which will be responsible for system development (Annex 5). This
effort would be funded by a grant from the Japanese Government. After the
system has been developed under MOC's auspices, it will be tried on a pilot
basis at selected ports before adoption at all major ports (see para. 4.4).
F.  The Role of the Bank
2.21      The Bank has supported, and will continue to support, the
Government's objective of expanding capacity and improving productivity in the
ports. The first lending operation in the subsector (Three Ports Projects,
Ln. 2207-CHA) financed additional container handling capacity in Shanghai,
Huangpu and Tianjin and a coal terminal at lluangpu. The second (Tianjin Port
Project, Ln. 2689-CHA) is financing the construction of eleven additional
berths at Tianjin for timber, construction materials and general cargo.  The
third, (Huangpu Port Project Ln. 2877-CHA/Cr. 1845-CHA), is financing the
construction of five additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu port for
coal, iron ore, bulk fertilizer and general cargo.  The fourth, (Dalian Port
Project Ln. 2907-CHA/Cr. 1875-CHA), is financing construction of a new
terminal at Dayao Bay for container and break-bulk cargo.
2.22      Earlier Bank projects supported management systems improvements with
components addressing computer development, technical studies, training, and
containerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also been
instrumental in developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation of
investment projects and in updating various aspects of port operations. A
study component in the present project (para. 4.6) will help determine the
most economic pattern of development for the various ports in mid-eastern
China, including, in particular, Shanghai and Ningbo ports. A companion
project for Shanghai Port will extend support in assessing alternative
institutional models for port organization (para. 2.4) through a review and
evaluation of port organization and management in other countries, to be
undertaken by the Shanghai Maritime Institute in collaboration with the
University of London.



- 10 -
C. Experience in Past Lending
2.23      Construction of the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA) is complete,
one year later than envisaged at appraisal. There has been a considerable
foreign exchange cost saving under the project as a result of bids being lower
than expected, and $55 million of the original loan of $124 million has been
cancelled.  The project is problem free.  The Tianjin Port Project (Loan 2689-
CHA $130 million) was approved in Apri; 1986. Implementation is on schedule.
Loan Agreements on the Huangpu Port Project and the Dalian Port Project have
been signed on June 22, 1988 and July 15, 1988 respectively, and implementa-
tion is on schedule.
2.24      A number of studies in the port and shipping sub-sectors have been
initiated under previous Bank projects. These include a containerization
study which was completed by the Comprehensive Transport Research Institute in
1985. Recent investments in container facilities have benefited from the
insights provided by this effort. Studies included under ongoing port
projects include an "Intermodal Cargo Distribution Study" as part of the
Huangpu Port Project (in the south) and a similar effort to be undertaken in
the Dalian Port Project (in north China).
III. NINGBO PORT
3.1       The larger hinterland of Ningbo Port comprises six provinces (Anhui,
Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Zhejiang) and the city of Shanghai.  The six2
provinces and Shanghai City together comprise a land area of over 900,000 km2,
which includes the whole of what are referred to as East China (Anhui,
Jiangsu, Zhejiang provinces and Shanghai City) and Central China (Hubei, Hunan
and Jiangxi provinces). Whereas the land area of this hinterland constitutes
only 10% of China, its population of approximately 300 million people is
almost a quarter of that for the whole country. In 1986, the gross value of
industrial and agricultural output (GVIAO) of this hinterland was RHB 564.8
billion or 38% of national GVIAO. Industrial output accounted for RMB 430.4
billion, and agricultural output was RMB 134.8 billion. Total value of
foreign exports in 1985 was US$7.3 billion, and accounted for 26.7% of
national exports. Table 3.1 presents key economic and demographic data for
the larger hinterland of the port..
3.2       Presently, the hinterland of Ningbo Port is considerably smaller
than the larger hinterland described above. Due to constraints in the
hinterland transport network, most of the cargo handled at the port is for
Zhejiang Province south of Hangzhou. The major exception to this is iron ore
transshipped through Ningbo for the Baoshan Steel Works in Shanghai and other
steel mills located along the Yangtze River. In the future, as Ningbo's deep
water facilities begin to play a larger role in the region, it is expected
that the port's hinterland will be gradually extended to the larger
hinterland.  The port optimization study (para. 4.6) included in this project
is intended to identify specific opportunities for in expanded role for the
port.



- 11 -
A. Regional Transport Network
3.3       The transport network serving the port of Ningbo is shown in IBRD
Map 20932. The port is served by the Xiaoyung Railway, three Class II
highways and inland waterways. Xiaoyung Railway connects all port facilities
through Ningbe City to Hangzhou, and presently is single track with design
capacity of 4.8 million tons/year. Through Hangzhou the railway connects with
the Hangzhou-Shanghai railway (present capacity Shanghai-Hangzhou is 12
million twns) and to the Zhegan Railway which serves the Zhejiang-Jiangxi rail
corridor. Of the three Class II highways leading to the port, two connect
Ningbo City with the port. The third highway directly accesses the provincial
road network.
3.4       The rai' connection from Ningbo to the hinterland (Xiaoyung Railway)
is already capacity constrained. During the 7th FYP the capacity is being
increased from the existing 4.8 million tons to 13 million tons (by the early
1990s) through investments of the order of Y 130 million. In the 8th FYP this
line will be double tracked and capacity will then increase to 30 million
tons. The line from Hangzbou to Shanghai is currently a single track with
design capacity of 12 million tons, and is also capacity constrained. Under
the 7th FYP the Shanghai-Hangzhou line is being double tracked to increase
capacity to 26 million tons by 1990. Hence, by the mid-1990s the rail
capacity serving Ningbo Port, in particular the link between the port and the
greater Shanghai area, will be more than three times presently available
capacity.
3.5       The highway network serving the port is being improved under the 7th
FYP through three projects, all to be completed by 1989-90. The first project
is reconstruction of the Class II Highway from Hangzhou to Ningbo, which will
increase the design capacity from less than 3,000 vpd at present to 4,000 vpd
by 1990. The second project is a 1,035 m long tunnel under the Yungjiang
river, which will shorten the road distance between the Beilun terminal and
Ningbo city by about 20 km. The other highway improvement undertaken in the
7th FYP, improves the highway connecting Ningbo to Fuzhou to the south (in
Fujian Province). For the 8th FYP, a four lane expressway connecting Ningbo-
Hangzhou-Shanghai-Nanjing has been proposed. This will be a major investment
of the order of Y 7.5 billion. Feasibility studies for some sections of this
expressway have been completed, and Zhejiang Province would like the Bank's
assiscance in completing feasibility studies for the remaining sections which
are all located in Zhejiang Province.
3.6       Ningbo is situated on the Yungjiang River which is connected by
inland waterway to Hangzhou through the Hangyung Canal. This canal is
presently restricted to vessels under 40 tons, however, thare are plans to
upgrade it to allow vessels of 100-500 tons and to increase annual transport
capacity to 6 million tons. From Hangzhou, across the Qiantangjiang river,
the Hangyung connects with the Grand Canal which links with the Yangtze River
system, and is navigable (upto the border of Jiangsu and Shandong provinces)
by 500 to 2,000 ton barges. Further, Ningbo Port is connected via coastal
shipping to the Shanghai region, to the Yangtze River, and to Hangzhou across
Hangzhou Bay. In general all of these waterways are limited to vessels with
draughts of between 2 and 3 m.



- 12 -
3.7       A direct transport link to the greater Shanghai area using a roll-
on/roll-off ferry is under preparation and would be funded by Ningbo
Municipality. Such a link would reduce the transport distance for road
vehicles between Ningbo and Shanghai from around 450 km to 160 km. Future
development of Ningbo port as a deep-wacer container terminal serving the
greater Shanghai area will be erhanced after implementation of such a direct
transport link for vehicles carrying cargo to and from Shanghai.
B. Existing Fac-.lities
3.8       Three districts, Ningbo, Zhenhai and Beilun, mrke up the Port of
Ningbo. Of these, Ningbo District is the oldest and is located close to
Ningbo City on the Yungjiang River. Zhenhai District is located 21.5 km
downstream from Ningbo City near the mouth of the Yungjiang River where it
enters Hangzhou Bay. Beilun District, the site for the proposed project, is
37 km from Ningbo City and is located on Hangzhou Bay (see Map IBRD 20932).
3.9       Ningbo District consists of 16 berths of which two can berth vessels
of 5,000 dwt, five are for vessels of 3,000 dwt, another five are for vessels
between 500 to 1,000 dwt, and the remaining four berths are suitable for
vessels under 500 dwt. Total design throughput capacity is 1.47 million tons
per year. Throughput capacity for vessels over 500 dwt is 1.3 million tons
(this excludes capacity of the four small berths). In 1986, Ningbo District
handled 1.64 million tons:  0.9 million tons loaded and 0.74 million tons
discharged.
3.10      Zhenhai District consists of eight berths for handling cargo, of
which four can accommodate vessels up to 10,000 dwt, one berth is for vessels
up to 5,000 dwt, and three berths are for vessels up to 3,000 dwt. In
addition there are two small berths for harbor service craft. Total design
throughput capacity of these eight berths is 4.3 miLlion tons. In 1986,
Zhenhai District handled 1.93 million tons of cargo: 0.3 million tons loaded,
and 1.63 million tons discharged.
3.11      Beilun District consists of three bulk cargo berths of which one can
accommodate 100,000 dwt vessels, and two are for vessels of up to 25,000
dwt. In addition, there is a floating bagging facility for bulk vessels of up
to 25,000 dwt. The three berths have a total design capacity of 20 million
tons of ore per year. The floating terminal can bag 200,000 tons of bulk
cargo per year. In 1986, Beilun District handled 7.21 million tons of bulk
cargo: 3.31 million tons loaded and 3.9 million tons discharged.
3.12      The Floating Oil Terminal is a converted 220,000 dwt tanker anchored
off Beilun District, to serve as a reception facility for oil imports. Its
annual throughput capacity is 4 million tons, aind in 1986 it handled 3.31
million tons of cargo. Details of berth capacities are provided in Table 3.2.
3.13      Cargo Handling Equipment.  Ningbo District general cargo berths are
served by three 5-ton portal cranes, and seven 4-ton tower cranes. At Beilun
District, the iron ore bertns are equipped with two grab-type gantry ship
unloaders each with a capacity of 28 tons, and two ship loaders. Iron ore
handling capacity at Beilun is for 10 million tons discharged and 10 million



- 13 -
tons loaded per year. Zhenhai District is equipped with two ship loaders for
coal capable of handling 0.7 million tons, and six 10-ton portal cranes for
general cargo and bulk cargo operations.
C. Port Traffic
3.14      In 1987 Ningbo Port handled 19.3 million tons of cargo, up from the
1986 figure of 18.0 million tons. Excluding crude oil and petroleum products,
the largest single commodity is domestic coal which arrives from northeast
China to be transhipped to small coastal vessels for delivery to coastal areas
in Zhejiang Province, and for local consumption in the Ningbo City area. The
next large cargo flow is imported iron ore which is shipped by coastal vessels
up the Changjiang River to steel mills in Wuhan, Nanjing and Maanshan, and to
the Baoshan Steel Mill near Shanghai. Cnemical fertilizer and grain arrive in
bulk and are bagged and loaded on coastal vessels for local distribution. The
remaining commodities are handled as general cargo. Of the 2.88 million tons
of gevezal cargo handled in the port in 1987, 2.8 million tons was handled as
break-bulk cargo. Container traffic amounted to 5,300 teu, which represented
a container penetration rate of 16Z of foreign general cargo traffic. Table
3.3 presents details of existing and projected cargo flows through the port.
3.15      Ningbo Port handled 1,188 ship visits in 1986.  Of these, 96 were
foreign flag, 134 were national flag foreign-trade ships, ar.d C58 were
domestic trade vessels. The average ship size for foreign-flag vessels was
50,380 dwt, reflecting use of foreign-flag tramp vessels for iron ore and
other bulk cargo. National flag vessels in foreign traLe had an average ship
size of 15,640 dwt which were mostly general cargo liner vessels. Domestic
trade vessels had an average size of about 7,900 dvt. Among break-bulk
cargoes, larger vessels were employed for timber and iron and steel, with an
average size of around 13,500 dwt. Remaining general cargo movements were
carried out in smaller vessels ranging from 10,000 dwt to 500 dwt, with an
average size of 2,700 dwt. Details are provided in Table 3.4.
D. Port Operations
3.16      Productivity in overall port operations for break-bulk cargo ranged
from 58.7 tons/ship-hour in port for iron and steel to 11.9 tons/ship-hour in
port for "other" geueral cargo (Table 3.4). Equivalent figures for berth
operations were 138.6 tons/ship-hour at berth for iron and steel to 16.6
tons/ship-hour at berth for "other" general cargo. The low productivity
levels for "other" general cargo reflects lower productivity in handling
smaller domestic trade vessels. However, it should be entirely feasible to
improve berth productivity to around 50 tons/ship-hour at berth for the
"other" general cargo category. An action plan to improve port operations,
(para. 4.8) has been agreed with the port, and is to be implemented as an
integral part of this project. Details of the action plan, and the agreed
productivity targets are presented in Annex 7.
3.17      Ningbo Port suffered no significant congestion in 1986.  Waiting
time to service time ratios are well below 0.50 for almost all categories of
cargo. The exceptions are national flag foreign-trade vessels (waiting time
ratio 0.5) and non-metallic ores (waiting time ratio 0.83); these two



- 14 -
categories together constitute less than 10% of total cargo volume. In
general the waiting time ratios correspond to berth utilization rates below
702, and ship delays simply reflect normal delays to be expected in any random
arrival process. However, projected incres !s in traffic througn the year
2000 would cause substantial congestion in 'ie future. Cargo delays were
reasonable, and there appears not to be any congestion in the port's storage
facilities. The table below provides berth utilization and cargo dwell time
data.
NINGBO PORT - BERTH UTILIZATION AND
CARGO DWELL TIME - 1986
Berth Utilization:  Beilun District                           68.7Z
Zhenhai District                         59.8Z
Ningbo District                          85.8Z
Average Dwell Time for General Cargo                        15 days
E. Port Organization and Management
3.18      The port of Ningbo is presently administered by ihe "Ningbo Port
Authority" (NPA), a unit under the dual leadership of Ningbo Municipality (NM)
and the Ministry of Communications (MOC). Under the current program of
decentralization, the administration of NPA was transferred to the City of
Ningbo in December 1987. Only in the area of long-term development planning
will MOC and State Planning Commission (SPC) approval continue to be required.
UPA is considered an independent economic and legal entity under a charter
issued by Ningbo Municipality on May 18, 1988. The charter is acceptable to
the Bank.
3.19      Organization of the port is divided into three divisions:
administration, technical and operating. These three divisions report to the
Deputy Director of the port. The Deputy Director reports to the Director who
is also a Vice Mayor of Ningbo City. The organization chart is attached as
Chart A.
F. Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing
3.20      The long-term plan for Ningbo Port is developed by the port and
submitted to HOC and SPC for approval. A port development master plan has
been prepared by NPA, and this is to be updated (as part of this project, see
para. 4.5 and Annex 4) in view of the increasingly larger role the port is
being called upon to play in the region. NPA prepares an annual budget which
will in future be approved by Ningbo City.
3.21      NPA operates an accrual-based accounting system and follows
accounting procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Its chart
of accounts and the form of its financial statements (income statement and
balance sheet) are as prescribed by MOC for the ports under its control.
Consolidated statements are prepared annually for NPA and its subordinate



-15-
enterprises, and with the addition of a funds flow statement these will be
acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of financial reporting.
3.22      Besides tbe internal audit procedures applied by MOC to the ports
and by the ports to their subordinate enterproses, external Ludit of NPA is
now carried out by the Audit Administration of China (AAPRC).  AAPRC carries
out the audit of most Bank projects in China. At negotiations, assurances
will be sought from NPA that it will submit its audited financial statements
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each financial year.
NPA will keep the accounts of the project, and will provide the Bank with
audited accounts of project expenditures not later than six months after the
end of the financial year.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1       This project will directly contribute to China's overall plan to
remove port bottlenecks by constructing additional deep-water berths at key
ports (see para. 2.8). It will increase Ningbo port's efficiency in the
handling of containers and general cargo by constructing specialized berths
and providing them with modern equipment. The project will also contribute
to: (a) improvements in the port's efficiency through rehabilitation of
existing facilities particularly at Beilun terminal; (b) longer term
efficiency improvements by providing training of both operational and
managerial staff; and (c) optimizing port development through a study to
determine the potential of Ningbo port's deepwater facilities in the
distribution of cargo moving through China's east coast ports.  The latter
study may lead to proposals for future investment projects. Importantly, the
project will allow the Bank to contribute to optimizing the utilization of
port facilities in eastern China, and this could have a significant impact on
the port subsector.
B. Project Description
4.2       The p.roject will consist of the following:
(a)  construction of a jetty about 750.0 m long and 45 m wide for one
container berth and two general purpose berths with 13.5 m depth
alongside, and two 14.Om wide causeways connecting the jetty to the
land yard (see Map No. 20284). These betths will require:
(i) pavement of the necessary yards and roadways, and construction
of railway connections, sheds, buildings, water supply and
sewerage systems;
(ii) procurement of equipment to operate the facilities, including
container cranes, mobile cranes, forklifts, vessels, tugboats,
vehicles and compucers;



- 16 -
(b) rehabilitation of existing facilities, particularly at Beilun
terminal;
(c)  training of both operational and managerial staff;
(d) updating Ningbo Port's Master Plan, including review of the effects
of port expansion on adjacent commercial activities, residential
areas and transport infrastructure;
(e) preparation of a port optimization study to best exploit the deep-
water potential at Ningbo port through transhipment of cargo using
large vessels;
(f) improvement of the environment monitoring system in the port area;
and
(g) implementation of an action plan to improve port operations and
maintenance.
4.3       Berth Construction.  The new facilities will be constructed at
Beilun Terminal about 37 kms from Ningbo City. The jetty and causeways will
be constructed on prestressed concrete piles with a cast-in-place reinforced
concrete deck. This design was chosen for minimum interference with the
current and siltation regimes. The land yard will be constructed on reclaimed
land behind a revetment to protect the land from wave overtopping. A nearby
mountain will be used as the quarry for reclamation material. Water supply,
sewerage and power supply will be provided from the mains leading to Beilun
terminal; these have enough capacity for present needs and for the new project
as well. One container freight station for trucks is planned.
4.4       Training.  In addition to the operational training required for the
new container handling equipment, which will be provided by the suppliers, NPA
will train the other personnel required for the project and also to upgrade
the port personnel (Annex 2). On-the-job training in project supervision will
be provided by foreign consultants who will also assist in the supervision.
Terms of reference (TOR) for construction supervision were discussed and
agreed during negotiations. Foreign consultants will also be needed to
provide training and implement the Port Costing and Management Information
System, guidelines for which are to be prepared by MOC with the assistance of
the Bank (para. 2.20). At negotiations, an understanding was reached with NPA
that it will implement the above mentioned training program in accordance with
the program agreed with the Bank (Annex 2).
4.5       Port Master Plan.  In March 1987, NPA completed and issued the
port's master plan for the period 1986-2000. NPA will update the port's
master plan according to the TOR discussed and agreed during appraisal (Annex
4).  In particular, the master plan will be updated to reflect the results of
the port optimization study (see below) to be carried out under this project.
The master plan will be reviewed and updated by consultants recruited accord-
ing to the Bank's guidelines during July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from NPA that it will update the port's
master plan as agreed.



- 17 -
4.6       Port Optimization Study.  In order to explore the potential of the
deep water facilities at Beilun terminal, NPA will carry out a study to assess
the economies of transhipping various cargo types to neighboring ports. This
study will be carried out c cording to TOR discussed and agreed with the Bank
(Annex 5). During negotiations assurances were obtained from NPA that iF will
carry out the port optimization study according to the agreed TOR from Ma ch
1, 1989 to August 1, 1989.
4.7       Environment Monitoring.  One uf the areas that has high priority is
environment protection and, as indicated in Annex 6, comprehensive measures
have been taken to ensure that port activities have minimum adverse impact on
the environment. An environment monitoring unit was established in the port
and is responsible for monitoring and reporting any environmental hazards or
breach of regulations. Additional equipment and training are needed for this
unit to improve the effectiveness of the monitoring process. Funds for that
purpose are included in the proposed project. During negotiations an
understanding with NPA was reached that NPA will prepare in consultation with
the Bank the list of additional equipment needed, an improved monitoring
scheme and the required training.
4.8       Action Plan.  An action plan to improve port operations and
maintenance was discussed and agreed with NPA. The action plan concentrates
on:  improving the efficiency of port operations by using more advanced
techniques; improving preventive maintenance by periodic inspection and better
;         records; and improving the environment by taking certain measures in the port
i          (Annex 7).  During .iegotiations understanding was reached with SPA that it
.-       3will implement the action plan and reach the productivity targets agreed for
the years 1990 and 1995.
C.  Cost Estimates
4.9       Cost Estimates.  The total projezt cost is estimated at Y 293 mil-
lion or US$76 million equivalent, with a direct and indirect foreign exchange
component of about Y 202 million or US$52 million equivalent. Details of
project cost estimates are presented in Tables 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, and are
sum*narized below.



- 18 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(3.7 RMB = 1.0 US$; July 1, 1988 prices)
z     Z of
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign  Total foreign total
----(RMB 'mln) -----   ------(US$ 'mln)
Civil works              58.2    86.7  144.9   15.7    23.4   39.1   60.0  51.1
Equipment                 5.3    74.7   80.0    1.4    20.2   21.6   93.5  28.2
Subtotal            63.5   161.4  224.9   17.1    43.6   60.7   71.8  79.3
Technical assistance
and training           12.9     7.8   20.7    3.5      2.1    5.6   40.6   8.4
Total Base Cost /a       76.4   169.2  245.6   20.6    45.7   66.3   68.8  87.7
Physical contingencies   7.6    16.9   24.5    2.1        4.6    6.7   68.6   8.7
Price contingencies       6.7    16.4   23.1    0.8       1.9    2.7   70.3   3.6
Crand Total              90.7   202.5  293.2   23.5    52.2   75.7   68.8 100.0
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
4.10      Cost estimates for civil works including design and supervision are
based on detailed engineering and on unit prices for similar ongoing works in
China. Equipment costs are based on costs of similar equipment recently
purchased in China and other Bank financed projects. Estimates are in July
1988 prices and include physical and price contingencies. They are based on
designs done by the Third Design Institute and were reviewed by consultants
financed by the United States Trade and Development Program (TDP). Physical
contingencies of 102 have been added to all civil works and equipment. Price
contingencies for cost estimates in US$ assume an annual increase of 3.0X from
1988 through 1990 and 4.0% for 1991. In RMB, price contingencies assume an
annual increase of 7.0% for 1988 and 1989 and 6.5% for 1990 and 1991. The
resulting direct and indirect foreign exchange requirement (para 4.9) amounts
to about 65% of the total project cost. The foreign exchange component of
Bank financed civil works is based on construction by foreign contractors.
About 180 man-months is estimated for technical assistance requirements. The
rest of the technical assistance will be used for training purposes.



- 19 -
D. Financing Plan
4.11      Financing of the project will be provided as follows:
(US$ Million)
Source of Finance                IBRD       NPA/Government       Total
Civil Works                       13.0           34.7           47.7
Equipment                         15.5            6.5           22.0
Training and Technical Assist.   15              4.5            6.0
Total                           30.0           45.7           75.7
The Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China and will be used
to finance the foreign exchange cost of the civil works, procurement of
equipment awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), and the
costs of technical assistance and training. IPA will finance the renaaining
local costs. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that GOC would cnlend the
proceeds to NPA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  .n accord-
ance with its established policy, the terms will be those currently prescribed
for enterprises in the ports subsector, 5Z over 20 years with a grace period
of five years. NPA will bear the foreign exchange risks. Signature of a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
E. Implementation
4.12      The project will be implemented by NPA under the overall supervision
of the MOC Capital Construction Department. Assistance is provided by the
Third Design Institute, foreign consultants and China National Technical
Import Corporation (CNTIC) as appropriate for project implementation,
incliding supervision of construction.
4.13      In order to operate the new terminal at Beilun and improve opera-
tions of the existing facilities, NPA intends to train some 3,621 management
and administrative staff, stevedores, machine operators and maintenance
personnel by 1990 (Annex 2). NPA has prepared a recruitment and training plan
which includes training to be provided by equipment manufacturers. The train-
ing plan covers the operational needs until 1995.
4.14      Land needed for the project will be reclaimed after building a dyke
to prevent overtopping by waves. The fill material will be brought from a
nearby mountain. Model tests were carried out at the Nanjing Hydraulic
Institute to arrive at the jetty alignment that will cause minimum
interference with the currents and the siltation pattern in the area. No
dredging will be required for this project besides the regular annual
maintenance dredging undertaken at present.



- 20 -
4.15      Designs have been completed by the Third Design Institute in
Shanghai, and foreign consultants have reviewed them and assisted in prepara-
tion of the bidding documents. Prequalification of contractors is complete,
the call for tenders for the works contracts has been advertised and evalua-
tion of bids would take place from November 1988 to January 1989. A supervi-
sion team has been established by NPA assisted by foreign consultants selected
according to the Bank's guidelines and with terms of reference reviewed and
agreed with the Bank. Construction will start in February 1989.
4.16      Civil works and equipment installation are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1992. Project closing date would be December 31, 1993.
Construction, procurement and installation schedules are shown in Charts B
and C. These schedules were confirmed during negotiations.
F. Procurement
4.17      Procurement would be carried out according to the following table:
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project element               ICB          LCB         Other         Total Cost
Civil Works                  22.0         25.7            -             47.7
(13.0)       (0.0)                         (13.0)
Equipment                    21.0           -            1.0            22.0
(14.5)                     (1.0)           (15.5)
Technical assistance
and training                 -                        6.0              6.0
(1.5)           (1.5)
Total                   43.0         25.7          7.0             75.7
(27.5)       (0.0)         (2.5)           (30.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
One works contract (US$22.0 million) will be awarded after ICB for jetty and
causeway construction. Prequalification of contractors will be carried out
for this ICB contract and qualifying domestic contractors will receive a
preference in the bid evaluation of 7.5% of the total contract cost. The
remaining civil works, for reclamation, pavement, buildings, railway connec-
tion, water supply and sewerage and land acquisition, will be carried out by
contractors chosen through local competitive bidding (LCB) and will be
financed by local funds (US*25.7 million). Equipment will be procured mainly
through ICB. Bids offering domestically manufactured goods will receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15X of the CIF price or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Some small items to be agreed with the Bank and amounting



- 21 -
to not more than US$200,000 per contract, and aggregating to not more than
US$1,800,000, would be procured under contracts awarded after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers
under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts in excess of US$200,000
will be awarded through ICB and will be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation and proposed contract awards. Consultants for the
technical assistance and training components will be recruited in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
G.  Disbursements
4.18      Disbursement from the proceeds of the loan will cover:  (a) 100% of
the foreign costs of equipment or 100Z of the local ex-factory costs, and 75%
of other items procured locally; (b) 85% of total costs of the civil works
procured under ICB; and (c) 100% of the costs of technical assistance and
training. Disbursement will be made against full documentation except for
expenditure relating to training and contracts for goods and services, each
valued at less than $200,000 equivalent, which will be disbursed against
statements of expenditure. Supporting documents for the statements of
expenditure will be kept in the offices of NPA and will be available for
inspection by Bank supervision missions. On the basis of the implementation
schedules shown in Charts B and C, a schedule of estimated quarterly
disbursements has been prepared (Table 4.5). This schedule is based on the
assumption that the proposed loan will become effective by January 1989 and
the loan closing date will be December 31, 1993. It follows the implementa-
tion schedule and disbursement profiles of similar port projects in China and
in other countries. A special account will be set up to enable the NPA to
handle small disbursements; the authorized allocation would be $2.5 million,
approximating four months' estimated expenditures.
H. Ecology and Environment
4.19      The project will not affect the existing ecology of the port of
Ningbo. Alignments of the jetties were chosen to minimize interference with
the siltation and current regimes. No adverse effects are expected on the
environment (see Annex 6 for details). Nonetheless, the project will provide
additional equipment and training which is needed to improve environmental
monitoring of port operations.
I. Reporting and Project Completion Report
A.20      The NPA will send to the Bank a semi-annual progress report.  A
draft outline for the progress report is presented in Annex 8. During
negotiations agreement will be reached on the outline of the progress report
and the exact timing for its forwarding to the Bank. Upon completion of the
project, the COC and the NPA will prepare a project completion report and send
it to the Bank for review and approval.



- 22 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.1       Under the proposed project, the port plans to construct three
additional berths in Beilun District: two multi-purpose berths with an annual
throughput capacity of 650,000 tons each and one container berth with annual
throughout capacity of 600,000 tons. The proposed multi-purpose berths are
designed to accommodate 35,000 dwt vessels, and the container berth will
accommodate a third generation container ship with a capacity of 2,300 teu.
5.2       At present there are 13 general cargo berths which can accommodate
vessels of between 500 dwt and 10,000 dwt. The maximum berth length is 180 m
with a maximum water depth of 9.5 meters. There is no specialized container
berth, and all container operations are carried out at one of the general
cargo berths using ship's gear. Presently, two berths are under construction
in Zhenhai District which will accommodate 10,000 dwt vessels, and one berth
is under construction in Beilun District which will accommodate vessels of up
to 25,000 dwt. These berths are expected to be operational by 1990. Total
throughput capacity for break-bulk cargo, which at present stands at about 2.5
million tons, will increase to around 4 million tons when these berths become
operational.
A. Break-Bulk and Container Traffic
5.3       Detailed traffic forecasts and estimates of container cargo are
provided in Table 3.3 for the years 1990, 1995 and 2000. Overall traffic is
projected to grow at an average rate of 11.4% between 1987 and the year
2000. This high growth rate is primarily due to projected high growth in dry
bulk cargoes--coal, iron ore, and non-metallic ores. General cargo traffic is
projected to grow at an annual average rate of approximately 8.52 from around
2.9 million tons in 1987 to 7.2 million tons in the year 2000. Of the 7.2
million tons of general cargo, 4.8 million tons is estimated to be contain-
erizable. In order to forecast container traffic, a steady growth in
containerization is assumed, reaching a level of 50% for foreign and 20% for
domestic cargo by the year 2000. A high and low container forecast is made
based on whether or not domestic movements are containerized. The economic
analysis is based on the low forecast for container traffic. Details on the
traffic forecasts used in the economic analysis are in Table 5.1. These
forecasts assume needed improvements in the hinterland transport
infrastructure (paras. 3.3 -3.7), including the availability of a direct roll-
on/roll-off ferry transport link to the greater Shanghai area (para. 3.7),
which the Government is considering on an urgent basis.



- 23 -
NINGBO GENERAL CARGO TRAFFIC FORECAST
1990       1995        2000
Total General Cargo (000's tons)                     4,597       5,642       7,202
High Containerization:  Container  (000's teu)          45         102         212
Break-bulk (000's tons)    4,215        4,788      5,439
Low Containerization:   Container  (000's teu)           31         69         125
Break-bulk (000's tons)    4,332        5,070      6,159
B. Impact on Operations
5.4       By the early 1990s, it is projected that without the proposed
project, general cargo ships visiting Ningbo Port will, on average, encounter
waiting time delays on average, of 2-3 days. Lightering would be resorteKi to
for between 5-10% of ships even though this would entail much higher cargo
handling costs and increased ship time in port. Container operations, too,
will be affected by a shortage of berth capacity in the 1990s, with delays of
2-3 days by 1995.
5.5       With the project, it is estimated that the total time spent in port
by general cargo ships will be around 60% lower in 1995 than the levels
projected without the project. The corresponding figure for container vessels
is 90X. This reduction in ship time results in the most important benefit
accruing from the project--savings in ship and cargo time in port.
5.6       Operational parameters assumed for general cargo and container
operations in the port are presented in Tables 5.2(a) and (b) respectively.
These parameters include the number of berths, cranes, productivity and
utilization ratios, average ship and parcel sizes and the average value of
cargo per ton. The tables present these parameters for both the existing
condition (without the project) and future conditions once the project has
been implemented.
C. Costs and Benefits
Project Costs
5.7       For this analysis, all inputs and outputs have been evaluated in
constant July 1988 economic prices. Financial cost estimates were converted
to economic costs by shadow pricing major cost components and by applying
aggregate conversion factors estimated in previous Bank studies. Details are
provided in Tables 5.3(a)-(e). Price contingencies, taxes and duties are
excluded. For traded goods, cif prices of imports and fob prices of exports
were used in estimating the cost of material and equipment, with due
adjustment for the cost of inland transportatioa. The official exchange rate



- 24 -
as of July 1988 was used to convert foreign currencies to Renminbi. Conver-
sion factors for various cost categories have been estimated as follows:
(a) for major items such as wharf construction, and other large civil
works, by separately shadow pricing each cost component (see
Table 5.3(d);
(b) for equipment a conversion factor of 1.4 is used based on results of
recent Bank studies (Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in
China, AS3CO, April 1988); and
(c) for other items by applying aggregate conversion factors estimated
in previous Bank studies for port projects in China.
The overall conversion factor for the project is 1.2. The factors derived for
the various cost items have been applied to the table of annual project
expenditures to obtain the stream of project economic costs.
Project Benefits
5.8       Quantifiable benefits attributable to the proposed project are ship
time savings, cargo time savings, cargo-handling cost savings, and transport
cost savings. The first three benefits depend on reductions in ship time in
the port as a result of implementing the project. Tables 5.4(a) and (b)
present the ship time analysis with and without the project. Savings in
transport cost result primarily from savings in the sea transport costs of
container cargo; the savings here stem from the use of larger vessels and
faster vessel turnaround in port.
5.9       Ship Time Savings.  These include both the reduction in ship time
spent waiting for a berth and at the berth due to improved cargo handling.
Estimates of ship waiting time with and without the project were calculated in
Table 5.4. Ship costs in pott are based on the ship cost model developed by
the Bank, updated to reflect recent world market prices. The cost of ship
time in port for an average vessel, used to compute economic benefits is given
in Table 5.2 for different types and sizes of vessel.
5.10      Cargo Time Savings.  Savings in ship time apply also to cargo:  the
benefit is in interest savings on cargo value, i.e., cargo inventory costs
saved as a result of the reduction in ship port days. For domestic cargo, the
marginal source of working capital would be loans from PBC at 6.5-7.5%
interest. For foreign cargo, higher foreign exchange working capital would
mean more foreign borrowing and it is assumed that this would be at China's
marginal cost of capital of 12%. Roughly two-thirds of all cargo passing
through Ningbo is domestic trade cargo. Interest savings have therefore been
calculated assuming an average rate of interest of 9.5% p.a.
5.11      Cargo-handling Cost Savings.  Handling costs estimated by NPA for
the existing as well as for the proposed new berths are given in Table 5.2.
Small savings are expected from handling cargo over the new berths. However,
without the project, the only way to handle traffic in excess of berth
capacity would be through more costly lightering; otherwise ship time in port



- 25 -
would be extended, which would prove to be yet more costly. NPA estimates
lightering costs to be 3 times normal handling costs. Detailed estimates of
handling cost savings are in Tables 5.5(a) and (b). Lightering has been
assumed for cargo tonnage in excess of berth capacity at 95% occupancy.
Savings in handling costs have been converted to economic benefits by shadow
pricing the main cost components of normal handling and of lightering.
Conversion factors of 1.05 for berth handling and 1.1 for lightering are used
here. These factors were estimated in a previous Bank study for the Tianjin
port project.
5.12      Transport Cost Savings.  Implementation oF this project will provide
shipping lines with a modern container handling facility at Ningbo Port for
the first time. Previously containers had to be handled using ordinary cranes
or ships gear. With the introduction of modern container handling equipment,
shipping lines will find it economical to introduce larger more expensive
container vessels since the port will be able to turn these vessels around
efficiently. Introduction of such vessels will result in lower unit sea
transportation costs for containers.  These costs are computed for a number of
different voyage patterns and vessel sizes in Table 5.6. Future savings could
range anywhere from US$2/teu to US$62/teu, depending on factors such as the
average length of voyages, and port turnaround times. Based on the analysis
carried out and a conservative assessment of likely future conditions, a
savings of US$ 7/teu has been assumed to calculate economic benefits stemming
from transport cost savings.
5.13      Total project benefits by year for the four items discussed above
are presented in Table 5.7.  The majority of project benefits are in ship time
savings. These would accrue first to ship owners and could be passed on to
cargo owners. As a majority of the ships calling at Ningbo are either
Chinese-owned (COSCO) or operated, we assume 90% of the project benefits
accrue to China.
D. Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
5.14      Tables 5.8(a)-(c) set out the economic rate of return (ERR) and net
present value (NPV) calculations.  Cost data are taken from Table 5.3 and
total benefits from Table 5.7. The "base case" rate of return is 26%. The
sensitivity of the economic returns and present value of the project to
variations in costs and benefits are summarized as follows:
ERR       NPV (@ 12% Discount Rate)
Base case                                  26.7                  302.7
15% increase in cost                       23.0                  247.7
15% reduction in benefits                  22.4                  202.3
15% increase in cost combined
with 15% reduction in benefits           18.9                  147.4
1-year project delay                       21.5                  221.9



- 26 -
As is evident, the project is very robust. The uncertainty relates to growth
in container traffic, and the project design has been specifically adapted to
accoamodate this uncertainty. Of the three berths only one is to be initially
equipped to handle containers, the other two will be constructed as multi-
purpose berths which can be converted to container op-rations when needed.
Considering the proximity of the high concentration of economic activity in
Shanghai (see also para. 5.15 below) and the rapid economic growth underway in
China, it is entirely possible that container traffic will grow faster than
projected. Also, the incremental cost of providing the container facility is
small in relation to the potential benefits from introduction of efficient
cargo handling technology.
E. Project Risks
5.15          The majority of the components to be financed under this project are
robust from an economic standpoint. Investments in general cargo facilities
have a high rate of return, and the traffic forecast is subject to a low
degree of risk in view of the strong growth experienced recently in general
cargo traffic. The only significant risk attaches to the forecast for
container traffic. Potentially, Ningbo port could attract substantial flows
of deep sea container traffic destined for the greater Shanghai area. The
project design hedges very well the possibility that container traffic will
exceed the forecast; by providing for conversion of the multi-purpose berths
to container operations. The downside risk of container traffic not
materializing is primarily a function of the ability of the port to attract
container shipping services and container cargo. This in turn largely depends
on the availability of good hinterland transport connections to the greater
Shanghai area. Zhejiang province and Ningbo municipality have undertaken a
number of initiatives in this area (see paras. 3.3 and 3.7). Also, the port
optimization study included in this project (para. 4.6) is intended to
identify opportunities for expanding the role of Ningbo port in the region,
and will minimize the risk entailed in the traffic forecast.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Results
6.1      NPA's financial results for 1984-1987 are at Table 6.1; the salient
points are sumarized below:
1984      1985       1986      1987
Net revenue (Y million) /a                31.4     47.3       59.0      79.6
Operating profit (Y million)              10.8     17.0       21.7      25.1
Net profit after taxes (Y million)         2.8      4.5        7.6      16.8
Operating ratio                             65       64         63        68
Return on assets /b employed (X)           5.0      4.0        5.0       5.0
/a Excluding taxes.
rb At historic cost.



- 27 -
6.2       Within the overall growth of traffic there was a significant shift
in mix in favor of domestic cargoes, particularly coal, up to 1986. This
change in mix accounted for a decline in average revenue per ton of cargo
handled.  However, unit handling costs also declined, and as a result NPA's
operating ratio remained almost constant at 63-65, a satisfactory level, and
operating profits grew in proportion to revenues. In 1987 imported ore
increased notably, raising average revenue, but unit operating costs rose more
steeply, partly as a result of depreciation charges on the Zhenhai terminal
and partly through increased labor costs. Return on assets employed, at 4-5%,
was depressed by the inclusion in the rate base of Zhenhai, which is
substantially underutilized and generates no profit.
6.3       NPA's net profits grew faster than operating profits as a result of
changes in  its tax basis.  Prior to 1985, NPA paid the standard 55% income
tax on profits, plus a supplementary adjustment tax of 25%, and a levy (for
the national energy and tiransport funds) of a further 15% of profit after
income tax.  In 1985 the assessment was changed to a flat payment of V 8
million in lieu of income tax, plus the levy (now computed at 15% of 45% of
*         pretax profit).  Adjustment tax was cancelled.  In 1987 the payment in lieu of
income tax was reduced to V 5.27 million.
B.  Present Financial Position
6.4       At December 31, 1987 NPA's financial condition was sound.  All past
capital expenditures having been funded by government grants, the equity of
the enterprise was exactly represented by net fixed assets.  Current assets
substantially exceeded current liabilities, with three quarters of the total
in cash or equivalent.  The salient points of the balance sheet are as
follows:
Y million
Fixed assets (net)                                          536
Current assets                                               88
Special fund assets                                          36
660
Equity                                                      536
Current liabilities                                          21
Special funds                                               103
660



- 28 -
C. Future Financial Performance
6.5       Financial projections, based on NPA's traffic forecasts and assuming
present 'eveO of unit revenues and costs, indicate a strong growth in after-
tax profits - and a gradually improving return on assets. Under the present
regulatiors, NPA must apply its income tax savings (i.e. 55% of its pretax
profit, less the payment in lieu) to a fund for port development. This fund
can be utilized to finance port alteration or new const-uction, or as a
sinking fund to amortize loans taken fue these purposes. The remainder of the
profits are to be transferred to the special funds for production development,
workers' welfare and bonuses as before.
6.6       In planning its fin&ncing through the 7th FYP and into the 8th FYP,
NPA has not relied on its internal port development fund. Instead, it
forecasts capital expenditure as being fully funded by a mixture of government
grants, IBRD and local loan funds, as follows:
1988-1994
Y million    _
Total capital expenditure                   390.3        100
Financed by:
Government grants                         168.1        43
IBRD loan                                 125.8        32
Local loans                                96.4        25
6.7       This arrangement would leave only the amortization of local and
(from 1992) IBRD loans to be met from the port development fund, a charge
which would be well within the capability of cash flow; debt service is
covered not less than 5 times throughout the period. As a result, the
forecasts show cash balances building up rapidly within NPA, reaching Y 400 m
(over four timss the present level) by 1994. Clearly this scenario will be
subject to some revisions as time passes; but it indicates that there is no
cause for concern as to the availability of adequate funds to assure comple-
tion of the project in a timely manner. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from NPA that it will ccntinue to conduct its financial affairs
so as to cover all its costs of operation (including depreciation) from
operating revenue, and to meet from internally generated funds all its
financial obligations including debt service, -emittances to the State and
allocation to special funds.
2/   This also assumes a continuation of the current tax regime described in
para. b.z although officially this is confirmed only until the end of
the 7th VYP in 1990.



- 29 -
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(a) from NPA, that it will:
(i)    submit to the Bank its audited financial statements and project
accounts not later than 6 months after the end of each
financial year (para. 3.22);
(ii)    carry out the updating of the port master plan on the basis of
terms of reference agreed with the Bank and complete it by June
30, 1990 (para. 4.5);
(iii)    carry out a port optimizatian study on the basis of terms of
reference agreed with the Bank and complete it by August 1,
1989 (para. 4.6); and
(iv)    conduct its financial affairs so as to cover all its costs of
operation (including depreciation) from operating revenue, and
to meet from internally generated funds all its financial
obligations including debt service, remittances to the state
and allocations to special funds (para. 6.7).
(b) from Government, that it will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan
to NPA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.11).
7.2       At negotiations, understanding was reached with NPP that it will:
(i)    carry out the training in accordance with the program agreed
with the Bank (para. 4.4);
(ii)    carry out the improved environmental monitoring scheme with the
additional equipment procured under this project and carry out
the training required for it (para. 4.7);
(iii)    implement the agreed upon action plan to improve port
operations and maintenance and reach the specified productivity
targets by 1990 and subsequently 1995 (para. 4.8).
7.3       Approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council, and
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the government and NPA, would
be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
7.4       Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
providing financing of US$30 million for NPA out of a Bank loan of US$76.4
million to the People's Republic ot China for a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



-30 -                                  ANNEX
Page 1
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.   Feasibility study, Beilun 2nd phc'se development, NPA, 1987
2.   Preliminary Engineering, Beilun 2nd phase development, NPA, 1988
3. Eramination of options in the evaluating report on the environmental
effects of the 2nd phase project of Beilun Port, NPA, 1988.
4.   Numerical calculation on tWo dimensional tidal current and analysis of
erosion and siltation in Beilun harbor, Nanjing Hydraulic Institute, 1987
5.   The equipment quantity and main technical data for container and multi-
purpose berths of the 2nd phase project of Beilun Harbor, Third Design
Institute, March 1988.
6.   Port Master Plan, NPA 1987 (in Chinese).



ANNEX 2
- 31 -                             Page I
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Training Program
1.        By the end of 1986 the total number of staff in NPA was 6,338.
Management constitutes about 20% of the staff (1,260), while workers
constitute the rest with skilled workers about 30% of the total (about
1,890). Management staff and skilled workers are usually university, college
or technical school graduates and are distributed to the various ports by
MOC. The port is responsible for training, through its own school (KPA owns
one middle technical school, and one adult middle school), through the local
University (Ningbo University), and or by training trips to other ports in
China and abroad.
2.        By 1990 the staff of NPA will be increased by 3,821 which includes
the staff required for operating the new project (about 1,005 persons) and in
addition other staff needed to improve port operations, as follows:
Increase over 1986       NPA Total in 1990
Direct production                         2,617                    6,364
Engineering Technicians                     373                      637
Management                                  374                    1,055
Security                                     51                      125
Servicemen                                  406                    1,021
Others                                        -                      957
Totals                                    3,821                   10,159
3.        Training for the new project will be carried out through trips
abroad for management personnel; by equipment suppliers and other ports in
China for equipment operators; by on-the-job training for stevedores; and by
the national and local training schools for the auxiliary services. Training
at foreign ports will also be arranged for various staff categories and in
particular for management personnel. Total training outside China is
estimated at 108 man-months distributed as follows:



- 32 -                                Page 2
Management             17 persons, 1 month each, 17 m/m
Technicians            5 persons, 3 months each, 15 m/m
Equipment operators   6 persons, 6 months each, 36 m/m
Maintenince            10 persons, 4 months each, 40 m/m
4.        Training for the proposed project will be carried out according to
the following schedule:
Staff category and number
Direct       Engineering
Year    Total   Production   Technicians   Mangement    Security   Servicemen   Others
1989      304       200             30            30           10          34           -
1990      441       250             50            50           30          61           -
1991      260       150             20            20           10          60           -
Total   1,005       600            100           100           50          155           -



- 33~ -ANNEX 3
CHINA
NINCBO PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Schedule and Estimated Costs
Date                     Cost US$'000                  U
Start    Complete        Local   Foreign   Total
Construction supervision    03/01/89    12/3i191           300    1,000    1,300
Training
Local training               01/01/89    12/31/91          500        -       500
Training abroad              01/01/89    12/31/91            -      400       400
Studies
Updating master plan         07/01/89    06/30/90          400      400       800
Port optimization            03/01/89    08/31/89          200      200       400
Environmental monitoring    05/01/89    05/01/90           100      100       200
Operation action plan        05/01/89    05/01/90          100        -       100
Crand total                                        1,600    2,100    3,700



- 34-                            ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
UPDATINC THE MASTERPLAN FOR THE PORT OF NINGBO
Terms of Reference
1. Introduction
Ningbo Port, one of 14 coastal ports in China, is the largest in
Zhejiang province. It is not only an important seaport of China serving the
Shanghai Economic Zone, but it also acts as a cargo transshipment port for the
six provinces along the Yangtze river including the city of Shanghai.
Moreover as the only natural deep water port in the mid-eastern region, it can
accommodate much larger vessels and could play a much larger role as a
regional transshipment center. Whether or not the port's role will expand in
the future, and the scale and timing of such axpansion, will depend on a
numbe-r of factors. Transport connections between the port and the larger
hinterland, including Shanghai, will need to be improved to allow efficient
access to/from the port. Also, introduction of efficient cargo handling
technologieis, such as containers, pallets, etc., and through transport
arrangements will be needed for Ningbo to realize its full potential as a
deep-water facility. The uncertainty which attaches to these developments
will be a key consideration in the port's master planning efforts.
The cargo throughput in 1986 reached 18 million tons of which 73X
was for the domestic trades. Eighty-four percent of total traffic was
concentrated in three bulk items, namely, ores (43%), coal (27%) and crude oil
(14%). Most of the remaining traffic is general cargo, including about 5,000
teu of containerized traffic. There is currently excess capacity in the bulk
cargo berths; however the break-bulk cargo berths are performing at or above
design capacity. The design capacity of the 13 general cargo berths which can
handle vessels larger than 500 dwt, is stated to be around 2.5 million tons
per annum, whereas in 1987 these berths handled approximately 2.9 million tons
of cargo. Break-bulk traffic at Ningbo Port is projected to increase to 5.6
million tons by the year 1995, and to 7.2 million tons by the year 2000.
Container traffic is projected to grow at an even faster rate; to around
68,000 teu by 1995 and to over 125,000 teu by the year 2000.
Presently there are three main operating districts in the Port
(Ningbo, Zhenhai and Beilun). The rapid economic growth experienced in the
People's Republic of China in recent years and the continued growth of traffic
in the port - particularly for general cargo and container cargo, will lead to
port congestion by the early to mid-1990's.  This congestion will create
direct and indirect costs to the economy. It is therefore necessary to both
optimize the utilization of existing facilities and to expand the facilities
of the Port. As a planning frame the Master Plan of Ningbo Port must be
updated to reflect the recent increases in demand for the port's services.



35 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2
2. Description of the Project/Objective
Ningbo Port Authority (NPA) has developed (March 1987) a plan for
the port with special regard to construction of new port facilities. This
plan, of which the proposed project is a part, is intended to provide a
flexible basis from which the port can respond quickly and economically to
future changes in the level and nature of the demands placed upon it.
It is necessary to update these plans, paying attention to long-
term-development to the year 2005, for the following reasons:
.
-    the layout of existing facilities and operation may not be able to
meet the traffic demand, both in general cargo and container cargo,              I
in the future-particularly if Ningbo e;erges as a major deep water
transshipment center;
-    it is the aim of NPA to undertake all possible improvements in the
existing port area before engaging in major investments for new port
facilities and it is therefore important to identify and quantify
feasible improvements in the short- and medium-term and, based on
these findings, update the plans for long-term development of the
port; and
-    since a major constraint in the port's future development is the
bottleneck in inland transport, the upgrading of inland transport
connections must be incorporated in and influence the contents of
the port master plan.
Further, it is the overall objective of the project to establish not
only an updated masterplan for the Port of Ningbo--on the basis of a sound
long-term traffic forecast, which includes optimization of existing facilities
and subsequently future expansion of the port's facilities--but also to
enhance the planning capabilities of the port itself so that it can
periodically update the masterplan. Efforts to update the masterplan should
be coordinated closely witi' the related Port Optimization Study, which will
focus on the potential for greater reliance of deep-draught vessels, and on
delineation of the economic hinterland of the Port of Ningbo.
3. Scope of Work
3.1 Traffic Forecast
It is necessary to review the existing traffic forecast for the Port
of Ningbo, and to collect requisite data, to prepare a detailed forecast for
the years up to 1995. Detailed forecasts must be produced for each main
commodity group (e.g. oil, coal, iron-ore, non-metallic ore, chemicals, salt,
grain, timber, sojabean, corn, wheat, conventional general cargo, containers
and ro/ro cargo), separated into incoming and outgoing traffic for each of the
five years. A further indication of the trend of each major commodity/class
shall be given to the years 2000 and 2005.



- 36 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
Special attention has to be paid to the trend towards unitization
(containers, through pallets) and possible implementation of ro/ro-services in
the future as this will affect the layout of a masterplan considerably.
Investigations also have to be undertaken as to the likely developments both
in kind and size of ships calling at the Port of Ningbo in the future, in co-
ordination with the Port Optimisation Study.
As far as the modal split in landside transportation of cargos is
concerned, investigations of future infrastructural investment plans must take
into consideration the relative roles in long-distance and short-distance
transport of rail, water and truck movements.
3.2 Optimization of Exiscing Port Facilities
To optimize existing port facilities, it is ne. .sary to consider
appropriate allocations of the different traffics among the existing
facilities with a view to specialization, to review landuse, suitability of
the layout of present facilities, to analyze the operational methods and
available equipment and make recommendations for any improvements to existing
facilities and handling techniques. These analyses should cover, among
others:
(a)  operational investigations with regard to ship's pre-planning,
ship's operation, stowage methods and procedures;
(b) operational documentation flows and the use of computers;
(c) evaluations of the adequacy of port equipment and cargo handling
gear;
(d) allocation of traffics among port areas in order to establish
specialized terminals which will allow operational improvements and
increased productivity;
(e) development of sound operational capacity assessments;
(f) analysis of tariffs and their impact on operational efficiency (e.g.
free storage time, incentives for unitization of cargo);
(g) assessments of workshop facilities, installations and maintenance
and repair performance;
(h) investigations concerning rehabilitation/relocation of existing port
facilities;
(i) hinterland connections (rail/road) to the port and recommendations
for improvements including impacts on urban traffic in the city of
Ningbo and onward connections to a broader hinterland including
Hangzhou and Shanghai;
(j) investigations concerning possible locations for future intermodal
freigF;. terminals as cargo distribution centers outside of the port



- 37 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 4
area and identification of the effect of such terminals on the
situation in the port; and
(k) improvements in the availability of rolling stock and other
equipment for inl3nd transport (as far as it affects the port's
performance).
Special attention should be paid to the magnitude of likely increases in
container traffic at Ningbo (containerized cargo in 1986 was approximately
40,000 tons; the estimate for 1990 is 680,000 ton).
All recommended measures for improving existing facilities should be
identified, quantified with regard to expected increases in throughput, timed
according to priorities regarding short- and medium-term implementation, and
evaluated with regard to the costs and benefits involved. These measures
should be segregated into the following categories:
(a) measures without physical investments
(b)  measures requirirg minor investments
(c) measures requiring large investments
Any changes in the design or proposed rehabilitation of existing
port facilities must be specified in preliminary designs. Preliminary costs
must be provided for the proposals to + 15X accuracy. These costs should be
calculated on the basis of estimated quantities and unit prices applicable for
work of a similar nature in the People's Republic of China. Cost estimates
shall be made up of required expenditures in local and foreign currencies,
which are to be given separately.
3.3 Port Expansion
On the basis of newly developed traffic forecasts, the relative
uncertainties attached to future growth projections and the recommended
measures for improving existing port facilities, future port expansion needs
must be evaluated. This may lead to an updating of the planned "Beilun
district" which, is designed at present for bulk cargo, containers and
conventional general cargo. Also alternative locations for port expansion,
other than the Beilun area, should be analyzed with regard to their
feasibility, taking into account future industrial development plans of Ningbo
and the surrounding provinces, hinterland transport connections, and draught
limitations within the bay.
These investigations must include any necessary subsoil investiga-
tions, topographical surveys, hydrological investigations and any other
measures in order to guarantee the preparation of reliable preliminary
designs. Special attention should be paid to investigations of the hinterland
connections in order to clearly identify any restrictions for road- and rail-
access. Furthermore, the plans shall give indications of possible locations
for any intermodal freight stations outside of the port area for storage,
consolidation and distribution of cargo.



-38 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
All preliminary designs have to be set up and the drawings must show
the principal dimension plans of all major structures and typical cross-
sections, indicating major features of the proposed design and shall
specifically include, where appropriate, the road and rail systems proposed
for immediate access through the city. The preliminary cost estimates shall
be worked out on the same basis as indicated under item 3.2 of these Terms of
Reference. The proposals for any new port facilities shall also include:
-    number and kind of necessary handling equipment and related workshop
facilities
-    organizational recommendations for new terminals
-    operational systems and procedures
-    sound operational capacity calculations
3.4 Economic and Financial Evaluation
An economic evaluation of development schemes must be carried out to
determine the optimum scope and timing of investments. The economic
evaluation should include a comparison of economic benefits and costs over the
life of each project alternative. The feasibility study will be based on a
determination of the estimated minimum long run marginal costs of constructing
and operating the proposed facilities and will include the determination of
the net present values and economic rate of return. For this purpose
permanent installations hall be considered to have a life of 20 years. The
sensitivity of the net present values and economic rate of return to changes,
within a feasible range, in the values of key variables shall be tested.
Benefits should include estimates of savings in transport costs - ttributable
to possible project alternatives, e.g. reductions in sea transport costs,
cargo handling costs, delays and inland transportation ccasts. Other benefits
to be considered shall include reduction in port maintenance and equipment
operating costs and, where appropriate, increases in the value of industrial
and agricultural output.
Furthermore, an analysis of future costs and revenues is to be made,
and the financial rate of return on each of these investments is to be
assessed. The financial analysis will include estimates of annual capital,
maintenance and operating costs and of the costs for cargo handling, storage,
vessel berthing and other pot* operations. Forecasts are to be prepared in
the form of pro-forma cash flow and income statements and annual balance
sheets up to 1995 and finally the financial rate of return on net fixed assets
and the operating ratios for the port as a whole are to be calculated.
3.5 Environmental Protection
In consultation with the Ningbo Environmental Protection Department,
the following environmental concerns should be addressed in the port's master
plan:
(a) impact of port expansion on wetland and other natural resources;
(b) impact of port development on urban land-use and traffic conditions;



- 39 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 6
(c)  pollution of city water supply intakes as a result of port activity
and ship discharges; and
(d)  effects ou  hxarbor dredging and spoils A4sposal on marine life.
The master plan should indicate mitigatory measures to eliminate or minimize
any of these consequences of port development.
3.6 Master plan
Based upon all the considerations previously described in this
section a complete master plan must be produced which includes:
(a) sound traffic forecasts, reflecting a range of potential outcomes;
(b) the optimum use of existing facilities (including allowances for
uncertainties);
(c)  improvements in organizational and operational methods in the port;
(d) proposed changes in existing facilities with layouts and cost
estimates;
(e) proposed additional investments in the port, their location, design
and capacities;
(f) proposals for improved land access;
(g) the economic and financial evaluation, including benefit-cost
analyses:
(h) timing of the proposed work; and
(i) environmental protection measures incorporated in the master plan.
4. Sources for Important Data
For the updating of the master plan th* following data have to be
made available:
(a) economic development plans of Ningbo and related regions;
(b) statistics on past and present traffic through the port;
(c) any existing traffic forecasts;
(d) drawings of existing port facilities, previous studies and all
relevant technical data;
(e) cost data on recent construction projects;



- 40 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 7
(f)  topographical, hydrographical, hydrological and subsoil information
of the Ningbo port area and the entire region;
(g) plans and studies with regard to the Beilun district ard other
extension projects;
(h) charts of Ningbo Port; and
(i) all studies/data on urban transport and hinterland traffic/cargo
distribution.
5.  Experts' Team
For the updating of the port master plan for Ningbo, the following
experts should to be nominated:
(a)  1 Project Manager/Port Planner
(b)  1 Civil Engineer
(c)  1 Mechanical Engineer
(d)  1 Structural Engineer
(e) 1 Transport Planner
(f) 2 Port Operation Experts
(g)  1 Organization/Documentation Expert
(h) 1 Transport Economist
(i) 1 Financial Economist
(j) 1 Environmental Engineer.
The work does not necessarily require all experts throughout the
project period, but the experts shall be assigned according to the needs at
various stages of the project.
6. Time Schedule
It is estimated that the updating of the master plan for Ningbo can
be performed within approximately 10 calendar-months, based on the fact that
substantial data and transcripts of many investigations are already
available.
As an estimate, about 55 man-months in total should be sufficient,
with a possible allocation as follows:



-41 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 8
-    Project Manager/Port Planner                       10 m/m
-    Civil Engineer                            =         2 m/m
-    Mechanical Engineer                                 3 m/m
-    Structural Engineer                       =         2 m/m
:  -    Transport Planner                      =         5 m/m
-    2 Operation Experts                       =        13 m/m
-    Organization/Doc. Expert                  =         3 m/m
-    Transport Economist                       =        10 m/m
-    Financial Economist                       =         2 m/m
-    Environmental Engineer                    =5 rm/m
These allocations are estimates only and could be adapted to requirements
arising during the execution of the project.



- 42 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Port Development Optimization Study
Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.        Beilun Terminal at Ningbo Port is the best natural deepwater
terminal on China's mid-Eastern seaboard, it is relatively free of siltation
problems, and is well protected from the sea. For these reasons, the Port of
Ningbo presents definite advantages for the development of a deepwater
facility for large ocean-going vessels which will enable substantial economies
of scale in ocean transport. The projected large increases in traffic through
the ports in mid-Eastern China, make it especially important that the natural
advantages of Ningbo Port be exploited to the fullest extent possible.
2.        By the year 2000, the four ports of Shanghai, Ningbo, Nantong and
Zhanjiagang are projected to require a total capacity to deal with 240 million
tons of cargo.  Presently, these four ports, together handle around 160 mil-
lion tons of cargo, of which Shanghai alone processed 128 million tons in
1987. The economic hinterland of these ports comprises the six provinces of
Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Anhui, Hubei and Hunan and Shanghai
Municipality. Whereas in the past, the majority of cargo handled by the
region's ports has been for a small hinterland surrounding these ports, all
nearby the city of Shanghai, faster economic growth in the provinces indicates
that in the future, cargo movements through these ports will serve a much more
dispersed demand for port services.
3.        The potential, therefore, exists for Ningbo Port to expand its role
in the region's transport system by serving two functions: (a) as a deep-
water transshipment facility for the region's ports, thereby allowing scale
economies in ocean transport through use of larger ships on long-haul ocean
routes; and (b) by increasing its share of Northern Zhejiang cargo, thereby
relieving some of the congestion in the Port of Shanghai and its hinterland
connections.  The former will require identification of those cargo flows to
the region's ports which could benefit from transshipment at Ningbo; while the
latter will require assessment of needed improvements in the hinterland
connections between Ningbo and Northern Zhejiang.
B. The Study Objectives
4.        The study will formulate and evaluate investment options and
institutional development measures needed to:
(a) exploit the deepwater facilities at Ningbo to obtain scale economies
in the ocean transport of cargo destined for other regional ports,
including Yangtze River ports, by transshiping between large and
small vessels at Ningbo Port;



- 43 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) increase the capacity of Ningbo Port, and its hinterland transport
connections, to optimall' serve Northern ZheJiang Province; and
(c) effect necessary institutional changes, if any, to ensure that
Ningbo Port reaches its full potential.
The res2l1s of the study will provide inputs to both Ningbo Port's master plan
and to the region's transport development plan, in order to assure consistency
between regional development planning, regional transport planning, and the
port's development under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-95) and subsequently.
C.   Scope of Work
5.        The study will:
(a)  identify present and potential cargos (for the broad mid-eastern
region) which could benefit substantially from movement in large
vessels over long distances, assume these will move via Ningbo Port
as a transshipment center, and:
si) quantify the respective traffics for Ningbo and the other
leading ports of the mid-eastern region;
(ii) estimate long-run marginal costs (LRMC) for handlitig the
different types of traffic at Ningbo Port; and
(iii) estimate the net economic benefits to China from such
developments.
(b)  identify any institutional or other barriers which presently or
potentially would inhibit such developments and recommend
appropriate measures. (Possible examples of such barriers would
include insufficient incentives to existing shipping companies,
restrictions on entry of new carriers, prohibitive investment costs
in new types of vessels or equipment, customs procedures, etc.); and
(c)  For northern Zhejiang Province, delineate the regions served most
economically by Ningbo and Shanghai Ports, respectively, through an
examination of the existing transport system, capacity constraints,
and the LRMC for additional transport capacity in this region, and
based on this analysis estimate what traffic would more economically
be diverted to Ningbo Port in the future.
A more detailed work outline is shown in Attachment 1.
D.   Project Organization and Staffing
6.        While the project staff will liaise closely with Ningbo Port and the
Shanghai Economic Zone Planning Office (SEZPO) in Shanghai, the Project
Manager will report direct to the Mayor of Ningbo Municipality.



- 44 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        The projeic will be staffed as below:
-    1 Project Manager/Transportation Planner
-    I Maritime and Inland Waterway Specialist
-    1 Land Transportation Specialist
-    2 Transportation Economists
-    1 Storage Operation Expert
-    1 Documentation and Data Analysis Expert
-    1 Financial Economist
At least one member of the project staff will be proficient in transportation
systems modelling, and at least one in modern integrated intermodal
transportation management. It is estimated that the study will require a
total of at least 45 man-months.
8.        The study team will be provided, in addition, with the following:
(a) two automobiles with drivers;
(b) four IBM-type micro-computers with necessary software; and
(c) offices adequate to house 10 professionals and their support staff.
All of the equipment provided will become the property of Ningbo Port
Authority upon completion of the project.
E.   Reporting
9.        Reports will be prepared in English as well as Chinese as follows:
Inception Report: Within two months of initiation of work.
Quarterly Progress Reports: Every three months, commencing in the
third month from initiation of work.
Draft Final Report: Within 10 months from initiation of work.
Final Report:  Within one month from receipt of comments from Ningbo
Municipality, SEZPO and the World Bank.



Attachment .
Page 1
CHINA
NINCBO PORT PROJECT
Detailed Work Outline
Phase 1                 Data Collection and Diagnostic Studies           3 Months
1.1 Review of existing studies and plans for all regional ports:
A.   Identify existing conditions
B.   Review future plans
C.   Document relevant studies
1.2  Collect and update data for all regional ports:
A.   Collect existing data concerning cargos, facilities, shipping
services, and documents control/freight forwarding services
B.   Update the data as needed
1.3 Develop the modal split:
A.   Establish existing conditions for hinterland transportation
B.   Establish existing coastal shipping operation
C.   Establish planned short- and long-range improvement
1.4 Prepare detailed diagnostic report
1.5 Define model options, considering key issues to be decided, data
requirements, availabilities and assumptions: (Note: the simplest model
adequate to resolve the key issues is preferred; only modest resources
are provided for model development; emphasis will be placed on testing of
alternatives rather than elaborate model development).
1.6 Develop and test model
1.7 Define the institutional arrangements:
A.   Existing institutional arrangements with respect to:
(i) the supply of shipping services by different companies,
their existing and planned fleet characteristics, and the
effect thereon of governmental regulatory policies and
market forces; and



- 46 -                         Attachment 1
Page 2
(ii)  facilitation of the intermodal interface, customs, freight
forwarding, insurance, etc., as it would affect load
centering potentials for Ningbo.
B.   Plan for institutional arrangements to implement the product of this
study.
Phase 2          Delineation and Evaluatioca of Alternatives             3 Months
2.1  Develop forecast 1990, 1995, 2000, 2005 and 2010, considering:
A.   Type of cargo and how it is carried (container, break-bulk, dry
bulk, etc.);
B.   Origin and destination distribution;
C.   Inland transport capacity (Rail, Inland Waterway, Road, Others);
D.   Plans for the region's ports, such as Shanghai, Zhangjiagang,
Nantong, Zhenjiang, Nanjing, Hangzhou, and Ningbo; and
E.   Economic growth in the hinterland.
2.2 Develop alternative plans
2.3  Develop initial cost for each alternative plan and carry out an economic
evaluation including the long-run marginal costs.
2.4 Evaluate the alternatives and adopt final plan and evaluate the financial
requirements (and capacity) to implement the final plan.
2.5 Formulate institutional development/reform measures needed to assure the
success of proposed development plans.
2.6 Evaluate cost recovery
Phase 3                      Implementation Plan                    6 Months
3.1  Finalize short- and long-range plans
3.2 Establish time table for completion
3.3 Develop cost of plan
3.4 Develop action plan
3.5 Detail implementation plan for the short range
3.6 Develop monitoring plan



- 47 -                             ANNEX 6
Page I
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Environmental Conditions in the Port
1.        An evaluation report was prepared by "the Zhejiang Scientific
Research Institute for Environmental Protection" for assessing the effects of
the proposed project on the environment. The report was completed in March
1987 and was discussed by MOC and all relevant authorities in March 1988. The
evaluation report covered the effect of the proposed project on: atmosphere,
noise, solid waste, soil pollution, offshore aquatic plants and animals and
inshore fishing. Emphasis was laid on oil pollution and effects on aquatic
plants and animals, and coal loading and discharging from other terminals in
the port. The report concluded that the project would have no adverse effects
provided the proper environmental protection measures were taken and
continuous monitoring of the environment is carried out.
2.        The environmental protection law was passed by the Government in
1985. Thus, Central Government as well as Provincial and Municipal
Governments established specialized bureaus for enforcing the environmental
protection regulations and to monitor the environment. The law specifies that
for any investment of RMB 100 million or more there should be an environmental
protection office in the investing unit to monitor the environment. IPA thus
established the Environmental Protection Unit (EPU), now comprising 11 experts
and is responsible for: (a) site monitoring, including laboratory analysis;
(b) Leasurements and sampling of air quality, dust, poisonous fumes, noise,
effluents, sea water and any pollution resulting from ships (mainly big
ships).
3.        Specialized boats collect garbage and oily wastes from the ships.
Water %pray trucks are continuously used for dust minimization. Complete sets
of warier spray systems are used for the bulk berths at Zhenhai and Beilun
term-.nals. At Zhenhai, for the liquid chemical berth, RMB 2.3 million were
sper. to transport wastes to special treatment sites. Sewage in Zhenhai
terminal is treated before releasing in the river. NPA has equipment to
combat small amounts of oil spills in the water. The only hazardous area is
the coal berths in Ningbo terminal. This berth is in the middle of the city
and there are no pollution control devices. NPA plans to stop coal operations
at this berth in two to three years and move all coal operations to the
Zhenhai terminal. Meanwhile temporary measures will be taken for dust
suppression such as covering of trucks and some mobile spray units. The
existing terminal will be converted mainly into a passenger terminal which can
also handle some containers.
4.        Land that will be used as a container storage yard has an area of 80
hectares (800,000 m2) of which 50 hectares (500,000 mi) is farm land and the
rest is wasteland. This land was bought from the Municipal Government for RMB
99,000 per hectare (RMB 16600 per MU). In addition, farmers have been
compensated at the equivalent of farm output value for six years which
amounted to RMB 5000 per farmer. Agreement for the land was signed with the
Municipal Government on March 25, 1988.



- 48 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Some fishermen used tc fish, against the regulations, in the 13.0 km
stretch of Beilun District (present and future). Even though the fishing was
against regulations, the Government paid a compensation to the fishermen
equivalent to the estimated output value for six years of about RMB 60,000 or
about RMB 10,000 per year, which is an indication of the small size of
fisheries in the area.
6.        According to the Municipal Government, no wild life habitats exist
on the land that is going to be used for the project. Most of the habitats
are on close-by mountains. Maisanwan, which is about 30 kmF east of Beilun,
contain all the wetlands in the area and is a zone protected as a marine
habitat.  The World Bank has given a loan of $1.0 million to finance
establishment of a fishing farm in Shanshan, opposite to Maisanwan.
7.        No dredging, capital or maintenance, is needed in Beilun terminal.
However, some dredging is needed at Zhenhai terminal to keep the estuary open
for ship traffic. According to Municipal Government records, dredged material
did not have any toxins.  Waste water from the port and factories are treated
before dumping in the river. However, it is very difficult to control the
peasants' actions except through fines wlich seem to have very little
effect. Educational programs are being iLanned to counteract this problem.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Port Operations, Maintenance and Environmental Improvement Action Plan
The Port and the Bank have, subject to future negotiations, agreed
on the following Action Plan:
A.   Operational Improvements
1.        Handling technology for bulk grain operation is not up to standard
and the Port agreed to review this operation to reach better utilization of
berths, cranes and workers in order to be able to handle the recent large
increases in bulk grain cargo.
2.        Improvements are possible in timber handling through use of more
advanced techniques. This will require some investigations of alternative
techniques, and also testing of equipment to satisfy safety concerns. The
Port agreed to carry out these measures and if they are satisfactory, to
implement the improved system.
3.        The warehouse at berth No. 9 in Zhenhai district has a poor
utilization factor. The Port is going to improve this by introducing measures
to increase the stowing coefficient.
4.        At Zhenhai district berth operations are hindered by cargo stored on
the apron. The Port will see to it that no cargo is stored on the apron in
future.
5.        Containers are handled at Zhenhai district without any specialized
container handling equipiment. Thus, containers have to be stuffed/unstuffed
within reach of the ships gear. This causes a lot of problems and the Port
agreed to move all container operation to Beilun district as soon as possible.
6.        Unitization of bagged cargo is an improvement that, if it is
accomplished, will increase berth capacity and utilization of equipment. Up
to now the transporting equipment in the storage yards are too small to
increase the size of cargo handled. The Port will consider replacing this
equipment with higher capacity equipment when it is time to replace the
existing equipment. This will allow an increase in average cargo sling
weight, which is necessary for unitization.
7.        Containers are handled in the old Ningbo Port District with great
difficulty due to narrow roads and crowded storage yards and roads. Handling
equipment is improper and the containers occupy large areas. The Port agreed
to move all container handling from this area to Beilun as soon as possible.
This will help reduce cargo congestion in the district.



-50-                                  ANNEX 7
Page 2
B. Maintenance Improvements
8.        Periodic inspections and maintenance of civil works facilities will
be carried out by NPA as indicated below, starting in January 1989:
Each six months:    quay walls (above water), drainage, lighting,
pavements and crane tracks
Each 12 months:      quay walls (underwater), buildings, sewerage,
navigation channel, electrical distribution system,
settlement at a number of fixed points, and
transformers.
Each 24 months:      floating pontoons
9.        Some workshops, in Beilun District have to be better equipped.  The
cargo handiing equipment in the district is sophisticated and requires good
maintenance tools. This will be even more important when Phase II comes into
operation. The Port will equip these workshops better during the
implementation of Phase II.
10.       In order to keep better records on the status of each piece of
equipment, the Port will establish an equipment cost control system. The data
required already exist, but are not collected and used for this type of
control.  This control system will serve two objectives:
-    to enable management to replace equipment that have become too
costly to maintain; and
-    to enable management to see if maintenance is executed according to
the schedule set up.
11.       The Port will jestablish a system for faul: statistics monitoring for
all equipment. Again, data already exist but are not used for this type of
analysis. Fault statistics control will serve two objectives:
-    decide where to put in effort for redesign of equipment subject to
frequent breakdowns; and
-    to encourage manufacturers to redesign when new equipment is being
purchased.
C.   Environmental Improvements
12.       At present, bulk grain handling does not cause any severe dust
pollution due to its being a very simple and slow operation. In the future
when bulk grain traffic increases this will become a more serious problem and
the Port must pay attention to this.
13.       The environment in many workshops must be improved to eliminate
risks of injuries to personnel. The Port agreed to improve the environment by



- 51 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 3
-    improving ventilation in welding and engine repair workshops;
-    see to it that the floors are better cleaned and kept free from oil;
and
-    improving lighting in workshops where work is done after dark.
14.       The coal handling in Ningbo Port District causes environmental
problems as it is situated in an old urban area with people living and working
less than 50 meters away from the storage yard. As the area is old, there is
no treatment of the run-off water resulting from rain and the sprinkling
system. The water drains through the coal piles onto the roads around the
yard and into the river. There are plans to move the coal from this area to
Zhenhai, but this will take some years. Some measures are planned but they
are insufficient. For example: truck-wheels will be cleaned when leaving the
area and traffic will only be allowed in one direction in order not to stir up
too much dust. If coal handling is to remain for an extended time in this
area, more comprehensive measures are needed which the NPA will consider, for
example:
-    treatment of waste water;
-    evacuation of people in surrounding areas; and
-    covering of the truck loads with tarpaulins.
15.       It was agreed that starting date for the action plan will be not
later than January 1989 and that most of the items will be completed before
the end of 1990.
16.       The following monitoring indicators were agreed upon as targets for
performance improvements.
(a) Maintenance: the following standards/targets were agreed with the
port.
(i)    Availability of the equipment in the Port was reported to be
85Z; and this is a good figure by Chinese standards. It was
agreed to try maintain this figure.
(ii)    Utilization of equipment is to a great extent dependent on the
old handling equipment in Ningbo Port District. Hence, it was
agreed to divide the Port in two sectors with different
utilization targets as follows:
Ningbo Port District                     1990 - 25X, 1995 - 30X
Beilun and Zhenhai Districts             1990 - 40%, 1955 - 55%
(iii)    Average maintenance and repair cost as percentage of purchase
price, not to exceed: 1990-10Z, 1995 - 8%
(b) Operations: The following operational performance/productivity
targets were agreed with the port



- 52 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 4
(i)    Annual Berth Throughput Targets (1,000 tons)
Exis,ting   1990      1995
Beilun District
Berth No. 1, ore discharging                        5,801    7,650    10,000
Berth No. 2, ore loading                            2,203    3,325      5,000
Berth No. 3, ore loading                            2,354    3,325      5,000
Berth No. 4, general cargo                             51      400        500
Berth No. 5, containers (proposed)                      -        -        720
Berth No. 6, multipurpose (proposed)                    -        -        590
Berth No. 7, multipurpose (proposed)                    -        -        590
Zhenhai District
Berth No. 1, coal loading                             216      500        700
Berth No. 2, coal discharging                       1,768    1,800      2,000
Berth No. 3, coal discharging                           -      660      1,000
Berth No. 4, general cargo                              -       100       400
Berth No. 5, general cargo                             88      300        500
Berth No. 6, general cargo                             95      200        400
Berth No. 7, general cargo                              8        50       200
Berth No. 8, general cargo                             38       100       200
Berth No. 9, general cargo                            161      250        400
Berth No. 16, liquid chemicals                         15       100       200
Ningbo District
7 general cargo berths (5,000 dwt)                  1,138    1,400      1,400
5 general cargo berths (1,000 dwt)                    245      250        250
(ii)    Average Berth Time of Vessels Loading, Whole Port (Days)
Commodity                                           Existing   1990       1995
Coal                                                    0.8       0.7       0.6
Metal ores                                              1.9       1.8       1.6
Steel                                                   2.5       2.0       1.5
Cement                                                  1.8       1.5       1.0
Non-metallic ore                                        5.4       4.8       3.0
Bagged fertilizer                                       5.8       5.0       4.0
Bulk grain                                              4.9       4.0       3.0
Cenc,ral cargo                                          3.3       3.0       2.0



- 53 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 5
(iii)    Average Berth Time of Vessels lischarging, Whole Port (Days)
Commodity                                           Existing   1990       1995
Coal                                                    2.8       2.2       2.0
Metal ore                                               8.3       7.0       5.0
Iron and steel                                          7.8       7.0       6.0
Cement                                                  8.4       8.0       6.0
Timber                                                 12.1      11.5     10.09
Nonmetallic ore                                         5.8       5.0       4.0
Bulk fertilizer                                         3.3       3.1       3.0
Bulk grain                                              3.4       3.0       2.0/a
General cargo                                           4.8       4.0       3.0
/a   This figure is based on present handling technology.  If a special grain
berth is completed in 1995 this figure should be 1.0.
The above mentioned performance rates are based on present ship sizes.



- 54 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
1.        The purpose of these reports is to provide information on
significant events which occurred during the reporting period, together with
an evaluation of progress achieved and the prospects of future progress. To
this end, the information contained in the reports should cover at least the
following aspects of the project:
(a) physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b) a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of
the reporting period with the original forecast of progress at that
date;
(c) actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules, except that any such changes which would require prior
consultation with the Bank should be reported immediately and
subsequently included in the next report;
(d)  other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost; and
(e) the expected dates of completion of the principal physical elements
of the project.
2.        Construction progress should be reported on all the main physical
components of the project as follows:
A.   Preparatory work
B.   Civil works
-    Wharf and causeways
-    Reclamation
-    Pavement
-    Utilities, railways, and roadways
-    Power supply
-    Telecommunications
C.   Supervision of construction
3.        Progress on procurement of the port and cargo handling equipment
should be mentioned with partLicular reference to the:



- 55 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 2
D.   Equipment
-    Procurement
-    Installation
-    Testing and operation
E.   Supervision of construction
-    Consultants activities and effectiveness
F.   Any issues and problems arising including:
-    Any proposed modifications which has to be reported to the Bank
immediately for review and approval and not -iait for the semi-
annual report.
-    Any issues that need to be addressed.
G.   Project expenditures, disbursements and its comparison with
estimated, and reasons if there is any deviation.
Part B of Project
Progress on tne institutiofl building ite    including
A.   Updating of the port master plan
B.   Training
C.   Port Optimization Study
D.   Improvement of managerial, financial and operation control
All these should include disbursements carried out during the
reporting period and cumulative through the previous reporting periods.
E.   Port traffic that is actually handled during the reporting period,
disaggregated by commodity so that the appraisal estimates and
forecasts can be checked and updated.
Text of the Report
The text of the report should describe the work performed on each
major item during the reporting period, following the headiLlgs given above.
Where appropriate the text should include explanations of and comments the
following.
(a) Actual or expected material deviations from the original (or
amended) plan/design or impLementation scheduLe.
(b) Actual or expe Led difficulties or delays, any measures taken or
planned to correct them, and he probable effects on the
implementation schedule.



- 56 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c)  Expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the
project or the project as a whole.
(d) Actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment.
Reasons for such delays should be given, and their possible effects
on the implementation schedule should be estimated.
(e) Numbers in the work force including the Construction Management
Bureau, consultants and contractors.
(f) Any actual or expected event or condition which may affect the cost
of the project.
(g) Any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.
Drawings
Drawings showing the plan and sections of the wharf and causeways
should be included.  Construction progress should be indicated on the drawings
by color or other markings.
Implementation Schedule
A bar chart should show separately scheduled and actual orotress on
each of the principal features. Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams, which may
present a more comprehensive picture of the schedule and progress than the
chart, may be used if necessary.



57 -                                                       Table 3.1 (a)
CHIIU
Ningbo Port Projett
Economic Statistics For the Hinterland
Shanghai
Unit    city   Jiangsu Zhejiang Anhui Jiangxi Hubei Hunan    Total
It"                              - --- ------------------- --1985 - -- -------- -------------
Area                 '000 SKN    6.19  108.00   100.00 139.00 167.00 187.00 210.00   917.19
Population            lillion   12.17   62.13    40.30  51.56  34.60  49.31  56.22   306.29
6YIAOs                Dil. RS1  89.40  132.30    72.40  47.50  29.60  66.00  51.30   498.50
Of whichs Industry           92.50   96.20    44.60  24.50  16.40  43.30  28.90   326.30
Agriculture         6.90   46.10    27.90  23.00  13.20 22.70  22.50   162.20
Iain Output
Power generation     Oil. kwh   25.62   23.45    13.20  13.50   9.30  22.10  14.80   120.97
Coal                 Oil. ton      -    24.94     1.51  29.05  19.39   8.86  29.45   113.19
Steel                Nil. ton    5.70    0.99     0.54   1.94   0.77   5.15   1.09    16.19
Cemnt                Nil. ton    2.19   11.17     8.00   5.53   3.54   7.36   7.62    45.41
Chemical fertilizer  Nil. ton    0.16    1.22     0.52   0.76   0.19   0.89   O..5      4.68
Brain                Nil. ton    2.14   31.27    16.21  21.68  15.34  22.16  25.14   133.94
Cotton               Nil. ton    0.05    0.49     0.09   0.17   0.06   0.49   0.10      1.43
Ites                             ----1996-------------
Area                  000 SKN    6.19  109.00   100.00 139.00 167.00 187.00 210.00   917.19
Population            Million   12.32   62.70    40.70  52.17  35.09  49.89  56.96   309.83
6VIAO:                Oil. RN1  98.60  156.90    86.60  54.60  33.90  75.50  59.20   565.20
Of whith: Industry           95.20  123.50    67.40  32.40  21.40  53.60  36.90   430.40
Agriculture         3.40   33.30    19.20  22.20  12.50  21.90  22.30   134.80
Main Output
Power generation     Bil. kwh   26.76   26.38    14.92  15.27   9.27  23.37  15.20   131.07
Coal                 Nil. ton    -      21.93     1.48  30.20  19.63   8.35  30.53   111.02
Steel                Nil. ton    8.01    1.14     0.46   2.02   0.92   5.43   1.03    19.01
Cement               Nil. ton    2.27   13.29     9.98   6.80   4.00   9.37   9.67    53.38
Chemical fertilizer  Nil. ton    0.24    1.22     0.60   0.76   0.24   0.92   1.03      5.01
Grain                Nil. ton    2.37   33.40    16.05  23.72  14.54  23.05  26.32   139.45
Cotton               Nil. ton    0.02    0.40     0.08   0.16   0.06   0.44   0.08      1.24
Sources:  1. Statistical Yearbook of China 1985, State Statiatical Bureau, Deijing, China;
p.30, 57, 188, 354, 356, 359.
2. Statistical Yearbook of China 1996, State Statiatical Bureau, Beijing, China;
p.47, 93, 192, 308-310.
3. Statistical Yearbook of China 1997, State Statiatical Bureau, Beijing, China;
p. 47, 91, 172, 293-296.



-  58 -                                                        Table 3.1 (b)
CHINA
Ningbo Port Projet
Economic Statistics For the Hinterland
Shaughai
city   Jiangsu Ihejiang Anhui Jiangxi Hubei  Hunan    Total
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - -  - - - -----    - -
Item                             -arth Rates IO), 1994 to 1985  --                         --
Population                        1.00    0.69     0.93  (4.57)  1.14   1.13   1.10      0.00
6VIAD:                           12.70   31.80    39.77  39.87  33.63  23.07  28.25    20.15
Of which: Industry           10.84   26.75    33.61  32.43  35.31  20.51  25.54    22.99
Agriculture        42.56   42.42    50.92  40.77  31.61  29.25  31.89    39.97
Wain Output
Pover generation                 4.40   11.61    13.70  15.49  15.60  11.96   6.96    10.35
Coal                                -    21.66     1.34   5.41   3.36  19.25   3.41      9.62
Steel                            3.83   16.47      9.00   2.11  29.33  13.44  11.22      8.98
Ceent                            (7.59)  13.63    28.21  34.55  16.45  19.52  12.56    17.73
Chesical fertilizer             111.11)  (7.58)    0.00   1.33 (20.03)  1.15  (1.04)   (3.31)
Grain                           (15.08)  (6.66)    2.34   2.99  (0.971 (2.09)      -    20.63
Cotton                          154.55) 426.15)     -   122.73)(14.29)(19.67)      -   (13.96)
Ite                              ----------Growth Rates  1), 1985 to 1996-----------
Population                        1.23    0.92     0.99   1.19   1.42   1.18   1.32      1.16
6VIAG:                           10.29   18.52    19.61  14.95  14.53  14.39  15.40    15.70
Of which: Industry            15.39   43.27    51.12  32.24  30.49  23.79  28.12    31.90
Agriculture       (50.72) (27.77)  (30.94) (3.49) 15.30) (3.52) (0.99)  116.89)
lain Output
Power generation                 4.45   12.49    12.27  13.11  11.69   5.75   2.70       8.35
Coal                                -   (12.47)   (1.99)  3.96  (3.87) (5.76)  3.67    (1.92)
Steel                           40.53   15.15   (14.81)  4.12  19.48   5.44  (5.50)   17.49
Cement                            3.65   18.90    24.75  22.97  12.99  13.72  13.78    17.55
Chemical fertilizer             50.00    0.00    15.39   0.00  26.32   4.55   9.42       7.05
Grain                            10.75    6.81    40.99)  9.41  (5.22)  4.02   4.69      4.11
Cotton                          (60.00) (16.67)    0.00  (5.88)  0.00 (10.20)(20.00)  113.29)
Sources:  1. Statistical Yearbook of China 1985, State Statiatical Bureau, Beijing, China;
p.30, 57, 18, 354, 356, 359.
2. Statistical Yearbook of China 1986, State Statiatical Bureau, Beijing, China;
p.47, 93, 182, 308-310.
3. Statistical Yearbook of China 1997, State Statiatical Bureau, Beijing, China;
p. 47, 91, 172, 293-296.



Table 3.2
- 59 -
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Existing and Proposed Berths, 1986 /a
Total                        Desin capacity
facil-           Floating           Floating
ities   Berths  terminals  Berth  terninal  Remarks
---- (number) --- ---  - ('000 tons) -
Existing
Beilun district            4        3         1      20,000      200   1:100,000 dwt, 2:25,000
dwt, and 1:floating
bagging facility for
bulk
Floating oil terminal      1        -         1           -   4,000   1:220,000 dwt oil tanker
used as oil reception
facility
Zhenhai district           8        8        -        4,300        -   4:10,000 dwt, 1:5,000 dwt
liquid chemicals and
3:3,000 dwt, also 2
service craft berths
Ningbo district           12       12        -        1,300        -   2:5,000 dwt, 5:3,000 dwt
also 5 small berths
Proposed
Beilun - Multipurpose      2        2        -        1,300        -   2:35,000 dwt
Container         1       1         -          600       -   1:2,300 TEU
Total                  28       26        2
Of Which
Liquid bulk                2        -         1         200   4,000   1:220,000 dwt tanker,
1:5,000 dwt liquid
chemicals berth
Dry bulk                   4        5         1   2,720,000      200
Break-bulk                20       22        -        6,900        -
Container                  1        1        -          600        -
/a  Only berths which can accommodate vessels larger than 500 dwt have been included.



(A
Toblo 3.3
cm
NW nu
N" fraffst
,.W to)
............ ...... .                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
- -------------
2ow ------
la bt fdal 1. kt total 1. Id TOW to bt Total to lot Total to lait Total it Odt tota 1. Owt Sold
... . ........... ------ - ------ - -------- - ---- ......... ............... . .
cw               Fornin                             0.4.                                         It                     0      a      4      6      a       0      1      6       0      0      0       0      0
owdit                              ..46                 M.                  1,214  3,130  t.M    4,115a  3,3%   I.ISSAI S.Zaki lf,laf  2,VA 1O.Ol 14,"s  2,416 16,4SO 20,w    2.566 25,110
Idol              R.O.   .a.   711    0.4.    No.   "i          ct.   sse. I'M    3.13111, 1, TN   4.4FA  3416  1.46  SAU   11,50   2.30  16.01, 14,00   2.416 16,466 20,550   464, 23,110
of dicht WA                                                                 1,113                 4'"Go                 3,241                1,914                 II,")                16,0?
No Sit
U." oil          fwoif-                             11.41.               1I.S.                1.022     GO  I.960  119"       54  11111  1.10       02.wo  I'm            0I'm           2'M    42.001 2.000
kmtic                              ..A.                                     3.00   3.966    471  4.436  2,331    20   ZAP   4.00    330  4.40   5.10          00  5.901) 3.100    VA  5.10
total             0.4.  II.A. 1,23A     LL     S.S, 1,111    *.S.   2.4. 4.071  4,1110  2.111  6.4211 2,411 1,411  3,1111 4,0511 2,150  6,900  5.100  2,NG  I."O  5.10   2,000  Y."O
of dicipt VA                                                                1'w                   I'M                    111%
Vok On           Fwt.t.                                                   .4.                 1.141  2.00          2160   316M        63.6541 6.50          06.50  14,350        0 14,VA 20.454        0 20.434
kmtic                              P.S.                 6.4.                  6"        S1,140  1,14-         1$,It  3,117        06,400  6.06          0 is,"o, 10,90        0 14,30  14,30
Idal              n.a.   S.A.   253    -.8.   I.&.   G?   ..S.   P.S. 1,64   2,644  1,740  3,711111 3,663  1,120  6.M   6,5"   6.440 II.lo, 14,550 lo,"o 25,4U  20,430 14,foo 34.1"
of dicb, WA                                                                 1.6"                  I'M                   6'IM                 11,616               13.617                11,30
Iras Md Itni  Fwnp                                                                              IV     Ito           210    122       0    122    2u        0    226    M        0    20      367      0    sil
Oomtic                             si.a.                                      226      n     150    20      32      17    tN      94    Sit    257    122    M       321    156    262    418
letal                    .4.   125    b.s.     .a.   133   II.O.   9.11.  40       MO    150    456    174       V     262    Sn      161    40    410    20       An     $23    262    Ml
Of dick. WA                                                                   3"                                          M                     439                  $117                  on
Convettim        Fwtiifi                                                                          0                     0      0      0      0       4      0      6      0       0      0      0      0       1
admials       Wmtle                              M.                    ..8.                 213      50    140    I"       56    IN     214     65    I"      2"      13    M       Sit   1,6    30      "b
Total             O.L       41.41.  176   41.6,   S.A.   ltt    &L       ca.  21$    so    140    I"      36    in      214     6$    to     2"       13    233    $11    106    xp    406
of Mcks VA                                                                     56                   In                     IS                   164                  219                   301
CeWIA            formo                              6.4.                  M.                     II     10             it      6      0      6      16      0     16     20      0      20     26             26
amuse                              M.A.                                       W        10     10     of      6      0      46     16    10?    123      20    136    156      26    174    200
lotal                    ..4.    84    G.a.    ..a.   52    S.A.  11.41.  126       20      70            12     40     52      32    107    139      40    136    177     52    114    VA
Of diett on                                                                    51                    69                    v                     64                   05                   III
yIOW             Fwnp                               ".4.                                       210    ISZ            152    229       0    229    163       0    103    234      0    234    2"        0    2"
ountit                             ..4,                                       102      6      40     M      12    121    In       10     91    loy      Is    114    131      17    M      ir,
Tatal             B.S.   a.m.   47    8.8.   ..I.   213    M.   .G.   I ,    160           00    240    241    III    sa      III     9?    M      241    124    Ut    $I&    158    411
Of oich. In                                                                   3d                    202                   330                  $69                   759                 1,046
salwailit        F0,11"                             6.4.                  S.A.                   59            39     31       0     51     51      0    120    120             J20    120           2.0    200
Issentic                           A.M.                 0.4.                   40     40       3     43     54       7     61    "       $0    120  1.090      30  1,120  2,220      0.  2.3*
1061              ii.a.    J.    97    A.S.    M.a.   131    ..A.    ..a.           0       43     83     54     58    III      GO    ISO    240  Sit"      130  1,20   2,220    M     2.50O
Oscar in                                                                     93                    77                  109                                         251                   345
C"O'cal          Fwap                               0.4.                                        M      ISO            130    238      0    n1l   222        0    2n     M        0    M       361      0    $61
fwttiizws   kmtic                                6.4.                                       421      10    20     210      II    Ab    M        17    341    3W       22    435    457      28    5M     WS
N.A.   131   a.&.  a.&.   649        .a.    *.a.   710   10      NO    300    Mb    Ub    bn         239    $41   $79    305    433    139    389    $35    "S
0, sibiell. In                                                                70'                   ab                    5a                   919                 1,291                 1.131
SaIt             iwtlfm                                                                                                0       0      0      .      6              0      Is                                  Is
kmt-c                              0.4.                                       lis     go      b     too     V      U      1,09   l3t     35    III    III      45    M      nb       3?    M
1041              Ml   .6.    $0    ..a.    .a.    32    a.s.    a.&.   SAO        0       20    100     87     22    109    139      $3    114    117      45    M      no      St    293
of Ss,ch, in                                                                   25                    $6                    36                   62                    03                   114
Goal.            'Wei"                              O.#.                  ..O.                    0            so     30       0     47     47      4      57     51.   0       73      11      0     ts     93
amuse                              *.O.                 ".4.                  237    130    120    ZO    2"        I"     393    246    Ul    474    314    291   40        "t    $11    In
total             ..e.    ..a.   110    a.&.          212    a.#.    ..a.   237    OS,   130    M        20     236    440    246    M       530    $14    M       616    401   44   "S
of dick, In                                                                   193                   269                   411                   Yoe                  946                 1,302
aws              Fwtip                              D.A.                  S.A.                  163    140    130    270    132    14i   2U       6M      an   1.270    '77,    790  1,50     M    1,006  j,"l
Downtic                            11.1h.               O.A.                  608    2%      SIG    No    315    on       935    600    750  I.W       710    M    lluo    "I  1.00   1. "I
14tal             R.a.  a.&.   3"       *.S.          467    ..S.    ..s.   M      4341,  700  1-130    467    761  I'M    I'M    1,370  2,620  1,50   I'm    3,120  1.166  2.016  3,982
Of sh.cbs on                                                                  50                    100                   on                 1.601                 2,134                 2,943
total       Forest,,                           ..11.                O.A.                3,172  2,111  2,010  4,610  4,439  1.310  5,1129  ?.M    3,291 1 1,4016 16,10   2.183 11.122 22.406  3,301 23,187
Gomtsc                             0. 4.                S.A.                ?.M    I,4U   $,M   13,W    6,564  6,174 13,440 i3,09 10,q43 24,612 21,761 16.401 9,162 Z9,03 20,423 50,42
Tdal              O.S.        3,40      *.a.    *.a. 41,111   a.4.    a.a.10,401, [0,314  1,313 0.937 11,421 111,21A 19,271 21.61a 14,20  33,926 31,906 19,30  V.291 52,299 21,92& 76.225
04 oh"b, W,                                                                 7.M                  14,112                1314011              26.900                33,920                49,450
(stimted kf kii                                                      3,704  S. 434  3.53 O."?  7,446  5,113 12.U2 15,327  6.902 24,429 30,170 13,578 43.749 45,143 17,200 61.123
Ettiould Uqwd bit                                                    4.071 4,450  2.3311 6,420  3,411  1,411 3.021 4,050  1,W    6,90   SION  2,900  ?.M    SJOQ  2.00   I."Q
MIAMI# bwd Ewle
Fatils                                                       &V     $02    IX     6U      Sol    141    644    .0"     e2b  1,411  SIM       1%   2.60   1,60   I,v*   1,651
Amatic                                                     1.916   30   1,310  1.910    663  1,511  2,20       030  1,16111 2,fll  1,S44  2,216  3.30   1.11?  2,6211 4,M
fatal                                                   2.623  14"   1,460  2,550  1,166  SIM    2,M         10   2,4*   4,$97  2,636  3,06  S,G42  $,Saa, 3,036  1,202
of .61cht
S. Cotawildle cup
fmip                                                         10     160    300    132    In      340    M       677  1,327    170    W     1.6n     M    1.101 2.M
9=91C                                                        M      M    1.4n     50   1.237  1.11110   In   1,461 2.;40  l.t2b  1.697  2.1121 1,438  2,163  3.603
fatal                                                     450    rh   1,170    479    M      1,410  1,212  I.W   3,60   1,581 2,199  3,719  2,014  2.08  4,026
-- ---  -- -- -- -- .-" -- '-;I -- -  -- -- --.
Cotaiw ponritto (l)- Said"                                         In  St%  in  in  in  ta   M   2n  M                                     M   M M   M M
kentic                                                                             a       31           lot    101            201    M
fit. LOW111 COMWW    11041c- 11.0                                                                            314    M       30     312    412    04    119    994  1.763
LI                                 21     19     40      26     21     33    130    135    M       270    302    572    492    531 I.04IS
IdA  catum    traffic- 9,0                                                                                 209    254,   439    431    Ub  1,024    933  1, Ili 2.116
L                                      2t     n      40      26     27     33    IU      162    318    324    362    6b      M      GAS  1,251
6. Estiosted Tdsl arskok Soft$ Troffic- lbtb                         1.00   i.441  2,310  1.10   SIG"   2.135  $.M    2.353  4,332  2,366  2,704  5,070  2,074  3.M    6,159
- La                                                                     t.935  2.=    4,213  2JI1 2.54  4,M    2,597  240   5.411
- ------------
Swcm lbooo h't Adkority. OK. bm staff.



CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Shipping Statistics, 1986
Type,of shlpping
Foreign trade                              Cargo groupings
Foreign    National  Domestic    Iron &              Nonmetal-
Data item                          Units        flag         flag      trade      steel    Timber  lic ores   Grain   Other
No. of ship visits                number               96       134         958        25       14        14       54       187
Average ship size                   dwt            50,380    15,640       7,890   13,525   13,250    5,890    2,545    2,720
Average parcel slze                 tons           37,326     6,896       8,905    9,528    9,359    3,522    1,472    1,080
Total cargo handled                 tons       3,583,310   924,043  8,530,841  238,206  131,033   49,317   79,493  201,978
Average tons/ship-hour in
port                        tons/ship-hour        175.8      43.8       166.6     58.7      32.3    26.56      15.4      11.9
Average tons/ship-hour at
berth                       tons/ship-hour        317.1      69.3       195.6    138.6      46.1     40.1      17.1      16.6
Average ship-in-port time        days/ship            8.8       6.6         2.2       6.8     12.1       5.5      4.0       3.8
Average ship waiting time        days/ship            2.4       2.2         0.5       1.3      1.3       2.5      0.9       0.8
Ratio waiting/service time           -               0.38      0.50        0.29     0.24      0.12      0.83     0.29      0.27
a.



62-                                        Table 4.1
IIIISI PONT PAWECT
Projtct Co"t bary
(July 1, 1988 price)
!  --_     -              ----Tototal----------   Loan  LOAn 1 of
Local  Foreign    Total  Loal  Foreign    Total   WSS  total bisl
----IRN3 000)----   ------tUOSJ             ------   .000     cost
A. Civil artks:
I brinn  structures                          15,540   43,993   59,533   4,200   11,890  16,090   11,f0A    17.91
2 ReCIation                                   9,606   9,600   19,212    2,596   2,596   5,192         0    0.00
3 Soil trestent                               2,105   2,165   4,330       S85      585   1,170        0    0.00
4 Cobsaication pipn                              37       37      74       10       10       20       0    0.00
5 Open ditchn for yard drainage                 796      796   1,592      215      215      430       0    0.00
6 RaIlma                                      1,406   1,400   2,812       380      380      700       0    0.00
7 Roads                                       1,350   1,350   2,700       365      30      7n0        0    0.00
8 Storage yard pavenst                        2,035    2,035   4,070      S5O      550   1,100        0    0.00
9 Cable ditche                                  14      148     296       40       40       80       0    0.00
10 Light tSr 4oundation                           56       56     112       15       15       30       0    0.00
11 Auillaty civil Wots                        11,804   11,804  23,608    3,190   3,190   6,380         0    0.00
12 Mater supply and seeage                       518      518   1,036      140      140      280       0    0.00
13 Heating and ventilation                       240      240     480       65       65      130       0    0.00
14 Environental protection and grming            281      281     562       76       76      152       0    0.00
15 Compmnets outsido port                      2,146   2,146   4,292       580      580   1,160        0    0.00
16 Ten rary motrs and land acuisitimn         10,101   10,101   20,202    2,730   2,7n0   5,460        0    0.00
Subtotal- Civil othrs             58,229   86,682  144,911   15,737   23,427   39,164   11,890   17.91
S. Equipentt
17 Cargo handling equipment                    1,421   48,063  49,484      384  12,990   13,374   10,640    16.03
18 Rachinary repair equSpent                      37      148     185       10       40      50        0    0.00
19  arwking boats and vehicles                     0   4,958   4,958         0   1,340   1,340    1,050      1.58
20 Powr aupply                                 1,776   1,776   3,552       480      480      900       0    0.00
21 Computer                                        0   3,737    3,737        0    1,010   1,010    1,010     1.52
22 Cotunmcation and navigation                 1,628      925   2,553      440      250      690     200    0.30
23 Other cargo aQuipunt and fatilitin              0   8,288   8,288         0   2,240    2,240      800    1.21
Suototal                           4,82   07,89    72,757    1,314  18,350   19,664   13,700   20.64
Spare pats IIOU                               486   6,790    7,276      131   1,935    1,966    1,370    2.06
Subtotal- Equipmnt                 5,348  74,685  80,033    3,445  20,185  21,030   15,070   22.70
C. Tech. Assistance ad Trainingl
24 TraIninl                                    1,850    1,400   3,330      500      400     90      200    0.30
25 ProjKt dniga and tests                      0,993        0   t,993    1,890        0   1,890        0    0.00
20 Construction survision                      1,110   3,700   4,810       300   1,000    1,300      900    1.30
27 Port aster plas                             1,480    1,480   2,900      t00      400     800      100    0.15
28 Port optisization study                       740      ?40    1,480     200      200      400     200    0.30
29 Eavironsental arntoring                       370      370     740      100      100      200     100    0.15
30 Financial information syste                     0       0        0        0        0       0        0    0.00
31 loprovnset of operation and maintennce        370        0     370      100        0      100       0    0.00
Subtotal- T.A. & Training          12,913   7,770  20,683    3,490   2,100   5,59t    1,500    2.26
Total base cost                               70,490  169,137  245,027   20,672   45,712   66,384   28,460   42.87
Physical contingecies 1101)                       7,t49   16,914  24,503   2,067   4,571   t,638    1,000
Total                                         84,139  380,051  270,190  22,739  50,293  73,022  29,4t0
Price contingentin                                6,062   10,420  23,0K9      770   1,920   2,690       540
firad Total                                      90,f01  202,477 293,278  23,509  52,203   75,712  30,000
_ca   fw    _ca    _.  *_a  _..  aca
Notent 1. EacagW  atoes US 1.00 * fa 3.70 .
2. All figures are rounded.



- 63 _                                                         Table 4.2
CHIHft
1I4880 PMi PROJECT
Projet Cost Estiutms
tooo USSI July 1, 198 prines
..------ -- ---          -   - -- --------  .    __. _._.. _........   _.. ..__. .__. ...   -  --    __ ----   - --- -- ---- --    -  ----- ----------.....- ----------- --
IS89l99 1 ---- ----   ---ISSI1- --   --    ---------- total---------
LoCal   Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreila   total   Local   Foreiln    Total         Loan
A. Civil lorks:
I ONrine struttoern                             1,264    3,567   4,827    1,680    4,756    6,436    1,260    3,567    4,827    4,200   11,890   16,090   11,870
2 Reclaation                                    1,2S8    1,29S    2,596    1,29B    1,29S    2,596        O        0        0    2,59b    2,5S6   5,192         O
3 Soil treatment                                  585      585    1,170        0        O        O        O        Q        O      505      595    1,170        0
4ComlUicationip pp                                1t        14       20        0        0        0        0        0        0       10       10       20        O
S Open ditchs  for yard drainage                  215      215      430        O      .          0          O              0      215      215      430        0
6 Railway                                         190      190      380      190     IO      35O         0        0        0      380      380      760        0
RoNadS                                            219      219      438      146      146      N2         0        0              365      365      730        0
8 Storage yard pavement                           550      550    1,144        0        4        0        4        4        0      550      550    1,100        0
9C.ble ditthes                                     40       40       80        0        4        0        O        0        0       40       40       80        0
1b Light tower fourdation                           15       15       30        0        0        4        0        0        0       15       15       30        0
It Auuilary civil lOrjt                           63        63B    1,276    1,914    1,914    3,828      638      638    ; ;76    3,190    3,190    6,380        0
12 Nater supply and sevrae s                       140      140      280        0        0        0        0        0        0      140      14       290        O
13 Heating and Nvntilatlon                           0        0        0       52       52      104       11       13       26       65       65      130        0
14 Environmental protection and greewing             0        4        0       53       53      146       23       23       46       76       76      152        0
15 Coaonents outside port                          50S      580    1,160        0        0        0        4        0        4      5BO      5B0    1,160        0
16 Temporary WorkS ent land acquisition          2,730    2,730   5,4t0         4        0        0        O        0        0    2,730    2,730    5,460        0
Subtotal- Civil works                8,470   10,777   19,247    5,333    8,109   13,742    1,934    4,241    6,175   15,737   23,427   39,164   11,890
h. Eguipasont
17 Cargo handling  qupenmt                           0        0        0      307   14,592   10,699       77    2,598    2,675      384   12,990   13,374   10,640
18 Rachinery repair equipmont                        O        tj       4        8       32       40        2        8       14       10       40       50        0
19 lurking boats and vehicle                         0        0        0        0      804      804        0      536      536        0    1,340    1,340   I,OjO
20 Pover supply                                    240      240      480      240      240      480        0        0        0      40       480      960        0
21 Cosputer                                          0        0        0        0      808     BOQ         0      202      202        0    1,014    1,010    1,010
22 Cotamication and navigation                       0        0        0      352      200      552       so       50      13B      440      250      690      200
23 Othr cargo equipent and facilities                0        0        0        0    I,7      1,792        0      448      448        0   2,240    2,240       800
Subtotal                               240      240      480      907   14,268   15,175      167    3,842    4,009    1,314   18,350   19,664   13,700
parV  parts (101)                                24       24       48       91    1,427    1,518       17      384      401      1S:    1,835    1,966    1,370
Subtotal- Equipment                    264      264      528      98   15,695   16,695       184    4,226    4.U!:,  1,445   20,185   21,030   15,070
C. Tech. Assistance and Trainings
24 Training                                        150      120      270      200      160      360      150      120      270      500      480      SO       200
25 Protect dtsigo and tests                        567        0      567      756        4      756      567        0      567    1,8SO        0    1,890        0
26 C-struction superviston                          90      300      390      120      480      520       S0      300      359      300    1,400    1,500      900
27 Port utster plan                                120      120      240      160     1t0       320      120      120      240      400      400       tOO     100
28 Port optimization study                          60       60      120       60       80      160       60       60      120      200      200      400      200
29 Eiroanental monitoring                           30       30       60       40       40       80       30       30       60      104      100      200      1Oo
30 Financial  nfornation systee                      0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
31 lprovement of operatiun and maintenante         30        0       10       40        0       40       54        0       30      100        0      100        0
Subtotal- T.A. I Training            1,047      630    1,677    1,596      840    2,236    1,047      630    1,677    3,490    2,100    5,590    1,500
Total base cost                                  9,781   11,171   21,42    7,727   24,944   32,671    5,165    9,097   12,262   20,672   45,712   66,384   28,460
Physical contingencies (lOll                          978    1,267    2,145      773    2,494    3,267      317      910    1,226    2,067    4,571    6,638    1,000
Total                                           10,759   12,838   23,597    8,500   27,438   15,938    3,482   10,007   13,48B   22,739   50,283   73,022   29,460
Price contingencties
Annual U1)                                     3.001    3.001             3.00t   3.001              4.001    4.001
Coapounded III                                 2.26%   2.261              3.800    3.901             5.871    5.8n
Amount                                          243      20       533      323    1,043    1,366      204      587      791      770    1,920   2,690       540
Brand totel                                        11,002   13,128   24,130    8,823   29,481   37,304    3,686   10,594   14,279   23,509   52,203   75,712   30,000
gna    sam gaga   mgmasng    an..  sa-,  s_a   gg..  gags  gam    *ags  saga_
OtesH t 1. ENchaga ratdi US$ 1.00 *   . 3.70 .
2. All figures are rounded.



Table 4.3
Calm
v1im3 PSI PROJET
Projett Cat Eotiutn
00063 m.l vl to 1918 prUee)
-1    -------  -          -    --------------- - - ---1991--------- - -------TOe--------------
LKcel  Fwelp    ltel  Local  foroli     Total  Local  Foreign   Total  LKoa   Forailn   Total    Loan
A. Land 1orhos
I Raring structarn                           4,662  13,194  17,160    t,21t  17,N17  23,813   4,8t2   13,118   17,860   15,540  4t,993   59,533  43,993
2 ReIaation                                   4,6S    4,103   9,08   4,103   4,803   9,W8            0        0        0   9,b06   9,606   19,212        0
3 Soil treat tnt                             2,1W5   2,185   4,330         0        0       0         .       0       0   2,165   2,165    4,330         0
4 Communicatonr                                 31       37       74       0        0    -u          0        0        0      37       37       74       0
5 Opam ditches for yard dretee                  19     71    1,592         0        0        0       0        0        0     796      796   1,592        0
b Railasy                                      70U      103   1,408      703      703   1,406        0        0        O   1,406    1,406   2,812        0
7 Roads                                        NO       11    1,20       540      540   1,060        o        0       0    1,350    1,350   2,700        0
8 Storage yard paomst                         2,U     2,05    4,070        0        0        0       0        0        0   2,035    2,035    4,070       0
9Cable ditchn                                   140     to       29U       0        0        0       0        0        0     140      148      29t       0
10 Light tor foudatin                            58       58      112       0        0                0        0        0      56       58      112       0
It  Aulllry civil orts                         2,361   2,381    4,722   7,082   7,062   14,164   2,381    2,361   4,722   11,804   11,504  23,608         0
12 Vater snpply and suaaq                       513      513   1,03t        0        0        0       0        0        0     518      519   1,036        0
13 Heating no ventilation                         0        0        0      192     192      384      48       48      96      240      240      480       0
14 Envnromeotal protection ad rml                 0        0        0      196     198      392      85       85      170     281      281      582       0
15 Cosoantts outside port                     2,148    2,148    4,292       0        0       0        0        0       0   2,146   2,144   4,292          0
16 leporary works ad lant ecqtia tit         10,101   10,101  20,202        0        0       0        0        0       0   10,101   10,101  20,202        0
Suatotal- Citil lorks             31,341  39,7   71,2t8  19,732  31,113  50,845   7,15t  15,692  22,848   58,229  B6,t82  144,911   43,993
B. Equpeacnta
17 Cargo handling equipant                        0        0        0   1,13t  38,450  39,586       285   9,613    9,898    1,421  48,082   49,484  39,368
18 Hacbunery repair aqulpst                       0        0       0       30    I1S        148       7       30      37       37      1t8      185       0
19 lorking boats nd veiclen                       0        0       0        0   2,975   2,975         0    1,983    1,983       0   4,958   4,958    3,885
20 Pouer supply                                          0      1,778     8E8      8E8    1,776       0        0       0   1,776   1,177    3,552         0
21 Coputer                                        0        0        0       0   2,990   2,990         0      747      741       0   3,737   3,737    3,737
22 Coaunuicatim and nvitatim                      0        0        0   1,302      740   2,042      326      185      511    1,628     925   2,553      740
23 Othr cargo quipeet ad failitIes                0        0        0       0   8,830   8,630         0   1,858    I,t8         0   8,288    8,288   2,980
Subtotal                             M        W    I,778    3,3U    52,791  dt,147       618  14,216  14,834    4,882   87,895   72,7    50,690
Spara parts  (101                             e9       I9                33    5,279   5,615      82   1,422   1,483       486   6,790   7,276   5,0t9
Subtotal- Equipamet                  m        97    1,954   3,892  58,070  81,72         680   15,38   16,317    5,348   74,t85   80,033  55,759
C. TKh. Assistanceaed Iraiuwieg
24 Training                                     0W       444    9n        740      592   1,332      555      444      9W    1,850    1,480   3,330      14
25 Project dnin ad tets                       2,n8         0   2,096   2,797         0   2,797   2,098         0   2,098    8,S93        0   6,993        0
26 Constructono  wparvsis                       3n    1,110   1,443       444    1,410   1,924      33    1,110   1,443    1,110   3,700   4,810   3,330
27 Port mater pla                               444      444      m       592      592   1,184      444      444     888   1,480   1,480   2,980        370
28 Port optitaation sta                        m        m        444     298      298      592     222      222     444      740      740   1,480    714
29 Envirretal  nitoring                         IlI      III      222     148      148      296     111      III      222     370      370      70      370
30 FinuncalU infwrnlm syaste                      0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
31 lqronwut o owrtim  ad ealatue                III        0      III     14B        0      048     111        0      111     370        0     370        0
Sutotal- T.A. 8 tralutig           3,274   i,33i 8 i,i       5,105    3,108   8,273    3,874   2,331   8,205   12,913   7,770  20,883    5,550
Total baU s cat                              38,092   45,18   79,377   2,589   92,291  120,880   11,710  33,861   45,370   78,490  169,137  245,827  105,302
Pbhyscal continpecin lsl)O                        3,819   4,319   7,9      2,859   9,229  12,088    1,171   3,366   4,537    7,649   16,914   24,583    3,700
Total                                         59,611  47,5e4  17,315  31,448 101,520  132,988  12,881   37,027   49,907  84,139  l10,051  270,190  109,002
Price contgafilnes
Annul It)                                    .01;  7.661               8.502    8.S0O            6.501   6.501
Co Sounded II)                                .s5     .5               9.001   9.002            12.541  12.542
anOt                                        2,217   2,84    4,183   2,630   9,137   11,967   1,115   4,843   6,258    8,862  16,426  23,068   9,314
Srad Total                                       42,626  5,00  92,173   34,276  110,857  144,935   14,498  41,670  56,185   90,101  202,.77  293,278  118,318
_ _ea   _S _sas   flfaean   a                                                -        Ers  =w_sf
Motet 1. Eacksp rats IlC 1.00 *   33.7  .
2. All finurne ra ndi.



- 65  -                                                               Table 4.4
CHINA
NINHO6 PORT FROJECT
List of Cargo Handling Equipaent /_a
IJuly 1, 1988 prices)
------(RB  000)------    ------IUS$  000) -----
Quantity        Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Portainer                                 1           799    ?,191    9,990        216    2,484    2,700
Rubber tyred transtainer                 2            474    5,446    5,920         128    1,472    1,600
Tractor (30); Chassis (30)              60               0   15,360   15,360          0    4,151    4,151
Gantry crane ,n 10-i3)                    1              0    1,280    1,280          0      346       346
6antry crane (I 16-30)                    1              0    1,550    1.550          0      419       419
Mobile crane (0-161, 16 ton)             6              0       960       960        0       259      259
Container & log frontend loader          a              0    7,77t    7,770          0    2,100    2,100
Log loader                               3              0    1,290    1,290          0       349       349
Forklift (5 ton)                         4              0       280       280        0        76        76
Forklift (3 ton)                         6              0       216       216        0        58        58
Forklift (2.5 ton)                      10              0       320       320        0        86        86
Weigh bridge                             1              18      204       222        5        55        60
Tugboat (600 HP'                          I             0    1,400    1,400          0       378      378
Fuel tanker 1500 ton)                     I             0    1,900    1,900          0       514       514
Bus                                      6              0       432       432        0       117       117
Ambulance                                I              0        37        37        0        10        10
hinibus                                   !             0        45        45        0        12        12
Oil truck                                 I             0        54        54        0        15        15
Fire engine                              4               0      200       200        0        54        54
Tool car                                 1              0        72        72        0        19        19
Truck tI ton)                             I             0        55        55        0        15        15
Others                                    1            129        h       129       35         0        35
Total                                     1,420   48,062   49 4B2        384   12.990   13,374
t-a: NPA and Bank staff.
31-nay-98



. 66 -                             Table 4.5
CHINA
Ningbo Port Project
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule /a
Estimated           Cumulative
IBRD             Cumulative          disbursement
Years from               Fiscal Year         disbursements         profiles for
approval                and Quarter         $mil        %   port projects in China
Year 1                       FY89
1st half                  09/30/88
12/31/88                     -
2nd half                   03/3W/89           1.0      7.0
06/30/89          5.0      18.0            18.0
Year 2                       FY90
1st half                  09350789           7.0      25.0
12/31/89          9.0      32.0           32.0
2nd half                   03/31/90         11.0      40.0
06/30/90         14.0      48.0           48.0
Year 3                       FY91
1st half                  09/50790          16.0      55.0
12/31/90         18.0      63.0           63.0
2nd half                   03/31/91         20.0      70.0
06/30/91         22.0      76.0            76.0
Year 4                       FY92
1st half                   09306791         23.0      81.0
12/31/91         25.0      83.0           83.0
2nd half                   03/31/92          26.0     88.0
06/30/92         27.0      93.0            93.0
Year 5                       FY93
1st half                   09/30/92         28.0      97.0            97.0
12/31/93         30.0    100.0            100.0
/a Assumptions:  Loan effectiveness 3/l/89; construction starts 3/31/89 and
expected to be completed by 12/31/92; and loan closing date is 12/31193.



, 67                                             Table 5.1
CHIM
NINGkO PMRT PROJECt
Traffic Projections Used In The Economic Analysis /1-
('000 tons)
19B5   1986   1987         199O   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995            2000
Total port traffic                        10,404 17,957 19,271       35,926 39,441 43,300 47,536 52,196 57,291          76,225
Lesst 1_2
Coal                                     1,295  4,850  5,220        10,820 11,767 12,797 13,917 15,135 16,460         23,110
Crude oil                                4,077  6,420  4,900         6,900  7,089  7,284  7,484  7,689  7,900          7,900
Nineral ores                             1,846  3,784  5,780        12,900 14,778 16,929 19,393 22,216 25,450         34,750
Nonmetallic ores                            99    83      80           240   333    462    642    592  1,240           2,500
Other bulk cago 1_3                        200   200    200            304   319    335   352    370    38B             494
Cugo handled by the smaller berths i4    300   300    300              300   300    300   300    300   300               300
Total gneral cargo traffic              2,597  2,320  2,791          4,462  4,855  5,193  5,448  5,5U4  5,553          7,171
Less:                                                    -   --- --- -  -----
Containtrized cargo.                        13    40    53             265   309    360   420    490   572            1i043
Total Break-Bulk Traffic                   2,584  2,280  2,738         4,197  4,546  4,933  5,028  5,094  4,981          6,128
uX2  =__Z : a#=.           ==X  US=2=    2    2:#:=  =2=  332 ==3=
Total container Traffic (in '000 TED)          1      4      5            32    37      43    50      59    69             125
Notns 1. Excludes traffic handled at berths uhich are not included in the econouioc analysis.
2. These cargoes are handled through specialized berths.
3. Inbound fertilizer and grain traffic handled at the floating terminal.
4. Traffic handled by the smaller berths (under 200 dint ships).
5. All figures are rounded to nearest 1,000.
Surces:  HOC, Ningbo Port Authority and Bank staff.
Way-BB



10.00 tons    I TEU                      68                                                           Table 5.2(a)
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(General Cargo Berths)
Existing      Rehab. of     Proposed
general      existing       multi-
carugo      gen. cargo     purpose
berth         berth         berth
Berths (nunber)                                              12/1          12              2
Cranes per berth lnumberl                                     2             2              2
Average crane productivity per hour (tonsl                   25            30             55
Average wiorking hours per day (hours)                       17             17            20
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)                    950 /_2     1,020          2,200
Berth operating days per year (days)                        310           310            310
Maximum berth utilization (X)                                95            95             95
Maximum annual capacity per berth ('000 tons)               250           300            649
Ship arrivals (schedulediunscheduled)                   Unscheduled   Unscheduled   Unscheduled
Average ship size (DOli                                   4,b60         4,b0O         12.000
Average shipsent size (tons)                              3,000         3,000          9,000
Cargo value (Yuan/ton)                                    2,000         2,000          2,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                9,880         9,890         13,320
Unloading/loading cost IYuan/ton) 13                       4.38          4.39           3.90
Notes:
(i)  theoretical daily berth capacity   cranes per berth x average crane productivity per bour
x average working hours per days.
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity; theoretical daily berth capacity x ber'O operating days per year.
(iii) maimu  annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth capacity x maxisum berth utilization.
I 1: Three additional general cargo berths are expected to be completed before 1990.
12: For liwbtering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 501 of noreal berth throughput capacity.
J13: Figures in the table are costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffir exceeds 951 berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo traffic will be handled by lightering at three times the
costs for normal berth handling.
Sources: NBC, Ningbo Port Authority and Bank staff.



- 69  -                                            Table 5.2 (bl
CHINA
NIN6BO PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(Container Berth)
Existing                    Proposed
Container                   Container
berth                       berth
Berths (number)                                               I                            I
Cranes per berth (number)                                     1                            I
Average crane productivity per hour (TEUs) 1_1               12                           25
Average Norking hours per day (hours)                        16                           20
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                    192                          500
Berth operating days per year (days)                        310 /_2                      310
Normal berth utilization 'O                                  55                           55
tiaximum annual capacity per berth (G000 TEUs)               33                           85
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                   Unscheduled                 Unscheduled
Average ship size (TEUs)                                    400 /3                     1,400 /4
Average shipment size (TEUs)                                250                          400
Cargo value (Yuan/TEU)                                   20,000                       24,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)               22,570                      45,980
Unloading/loading cost (YuanlTEU) /_5                     80.00                        80.00
Notes:
(i) theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
(ii) theoretical annual berth capacity a theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating day per year.
{iii) saximu annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth capacity x maximu berth utilization.
/_1: I TEU is assued to be equivalent to 10.00 ton.
1_2: For lightering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 50X of normal berth throughput capacity.
/.3: Equivalent to 5,700 dot ship.
/14: Equivalent to 20,000 dot ship.
/_5: Figures in the table are the costs for noreal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 95X berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo traffic will be handled by lightering at three times the
costs for normal berth handling.
Sources: IOC, Ningbo Port Authority and Bank staff.



- 70 -
lil MY MECT
Ectuic ProJect Cost
1111 hrthk)
Conver-
--fincial Cut---- Sao fatt  ----Ecosic Cost----
Local  Foreig    Total -tws for Local  Fwreil         Total
-      --       ----       -   ------------     ---- - ----------U   --    ------------ L al --- ------ - --------
A. Civil Mrbri
I Nlorint structrns                           15,540  43,993  59,533      1.10   13,337   43,93   62,330
2 Rtclamation                                  9,t06   S,i0t  19,212      O.9B   9,414    9,06   19,020
3 Soil treatint                                2,165   2,165    4,330     O."    2,122    2,165   4,287
4 Communication pip',                             37      37       74     1.00       U        37       77
5 Opn dittch  for lrd drainap                    796      796    1,592    o.9       7K       796    1,504
& Railsay                                      1,406    1,406    2,312    0.97    1,364    1,406   2,770
7 Rods                                         1,350   1,350   2,700      1.02    1,377    1,350    2,727
O Storape yaird payat                          2,035    2,035   4,070     1.01    2,053   2,035   4,090
9 Cable ditch"s                                  148     14B      296     1.0     10       148      306
10 Liot tow  fodatios                             56       56      112    1.01        57       56      113
11 inillary civil wor                          11,604   11,604   23,606    1.13   13,929   11,604  25,733
12 Water Waply and wawage                        513      518    1,036     1.01      523      513    1,041
13 Ileatiag ad ventilation                       240      240      430     1.0      259      240     4S9
14 Evirounstal protectiarnead prling             231      241      562     1.00      23!      231     562
15 Cupmnts outside prt                         2,146    2,146    4,M       1.00    2,146    2,146   4,m
16 Taporwwy n'ks .d lll     acquisition        10,101   10,101   20,202    1.06   10,707   10,101   20,3
Subtotal- Civil Works              5B,229   36,462  144,911           63,559  36,182  150,241
3. Equipments
17 Crgto badling  qolpnt                        1,421  43,063  4,434       1.40    1,989  4,063   50,052
13 Nihnry repair etuipmt                          37      l4       165     1.40       52      14     200
19 working boats aed veicles                       0    4,S8    4,95        -          0   4,956    4,91B
20 Pour sly                                     1,776    1,776   3,552     1.03    1,918   1,776   3,694
21 Cowter                                          0    3,737    3,M7       -          0    3,737   3,737
22 Cotmaication ad savigatiom                   I,6       925   2,553      1.00    1,750      925   2,683
23 Othe Carop eqwipat asd facilitibs               0   3,233    3,231       -          0   9,23    3,238
sbtotl                              4,362   67,35   72,757             5,717   67,395   73,612
Spire part  (lOll                              436   6,790    7,276     1.13      573   6,790    7,363
SL_total- Eqipeat                   5,343  74,635   0,033             6,290   74,615   90,97!
C. Tbec. ssli:tance ad Training:
24 Iraulum                                      1,65u    1,490   J,30     4.0v    7.400    1,430   3,6l0
25 Project duip itld tests                      6,993       0    6,993     4.00   21,912        0  27,91i
26 CEmotrctim  sprvisios                        1,110    3,700    4,310    4.00    4,440    3,700   3,140
27 Port imster pla                              1,410    1,40    2,960     4.00   5,920    1,430   7,400
23 Put optimization study                         740      740    1,430    4.00    2,960      740    3,700
29 Eaviroatail wonitornn                          370      370     740      1.40     513      370      O
30 Finacial inforiation systos                  1,110    1,050    2,910    4.00    4,440    1,150   6,290
31 loprovemast of operatios an  sainteence        370       0      370     4.00    1,460        0    1,460
Sobtotal- T.A. 1 Training          14,023   9,620  23,443             53,130   9,620  64,750
Total bae cost                                 77,600  170,97  24,537            124,979  170,907  295,966
nysical coatisgescies 1101)                        7,760  17,099  24,959             12,4"   17,099   29,597
Total                                          65,360  IBB,O   273,446     1.19  137,477  10,066  325,563



It72. -                                                tale 5.3 (hI
IIIIU PYT 61ECT
Ecomc Project bat
ICownrel Crpg hrthsl
Cuver-
-Finaucial Cost-- SiN fct --EcoMc Cst-
Local   Freaig    Total -tort fw    cal   Foreip    Total
--tI 000)-  Local -- 000--
A. Civ3l Vorks:
I Marine structurn                             10,3W0   29,329   39,69       1.18   12,225   29,327   41,554
2 Reclasatia                                    6,404    6,404   12,309      o.9     6,276    6,404   12,610
3 Soil treatmnt                                  1,443    1,443    2,857     O.93    1,414    1,443    2,857
4 Counicatio  pipn                                  25       25       49     1.06       27       25        52
5 Op. ditcdn for yard drainap                      531      531    1,061     O.S       526       531    1,057
6 Rallay                                           937      937    1,875     0.97      909       937    1,346
7 Roads                                           900       900    1,900     1.02      915      900    1,918
8 Storap yard pavemt                             1,357    1,357    2,713     1.01    1,371    1,357    2,729
9 Cable ditchts                                     99       S       197     1.08      1m7        99      206
10 Ught tor tfoundation                              37       37       75     1.01       37       37        74
It Auillary civil oorks                          7,669    7,969   15,739      1.19    9,235    7,896   17,154
12 Nattr sopply ad severae                         345       345      691     1.01      34U      345       693
13 Noting and vuntilatimn                           160      160      320     1.08      173      160       333
14 Eoviroaatal protKctiev aed gming                 187      187      375     1.00      187      197       374
15 Co_onts autid  port                            1,431    1,431    2,561     1.00    1,431    1,431    2,062
16 Temporary wrhks a0  lad acquisitioa           6,734    6,734   13,461      1.06    7,138    6,734   13,972
Subtotal- Civil  aks               318,919   57,7E8   96,606             42.372   57,738  100,160
B. Equipment:
7 Caro handling eOast                             90   1t,181   17,171       1.40    1,386   16,191   17,567
18  ubcintry repair eWipot                          25        99      123     1.40       35       99       134
19  owking boats ad vehicles                          0    3,305    3,305      -          0    3,305    3,305
20 Powr  uly                                      1,164    1,184    2,3J8     1.06    1,279    1,184    2,463
21 Compter                                            0    2,491    2,49I      -          0    2,491    2,49i
22 Commication and navigation                     1,095      617    1,702     1.00    1,172       617    1,739
23 Otbw carp goqiput ad facilitims                    0    5,525    5,525      -          0    5,525    5,525
Subtotal                             3,284   29,402   32,65               3,872   29,402   33,274
Spare pwrts (10U                                 329    2,940    3,269     1.18      337    2,940    3,327
Subtotal- Eqepont                    3,612   32,342   35,954              4,259   32,342   36,601
C. Tech. Assistance ad Training:
24 Training                                       1,233     9S7    2,220      4.00    4,932      987    5,919
25 Pro jct desig  and tots                        4,662        0    4,662     4.00   13,64          0   18,643
26 Cotrottioe   uPorvlsion                          740    2,467    3,207     4.00    2,960    2,467    5,427
27 Port mster pis                                   987     9S7    1,973      4.00    3,948       937    4,935
23 Port optimoation study                           493      493      987     4.00    1,972      493    2,465
29 Environutal *itoring                             247      247      493     1.40      346       247      593
30 Fiancial inforoatieo  systt                      740    1,233    1,973     4.00    2,960    1,233    4,193
31 lmprova,t of operato nd saontemace               247        0      247     4.00      968         0      988
Subtotal- T.A. i Training            9,349    6,414   :5,762             36,754    6,414   43,168
Total base cost                                 51,750   96,544  148,324             93,365   96,544  179,929
Plysical coatinecies 1101)                           5,179    9,684   14,832             8,339    9,654   17,SS3
Total                                           56,956  106,19   163,156      1.21   91,724  106, 19   197,922
---------------------- ----------



- 72                                                    Table 5.3  (c)
UIIW  PT M  IIIECT
Ecaeic Projct Cot
(Cutuiur hrthl
Caner-
-F4inocial Cot--- si   fact  --Ec imouic Cst-
Local  Foroip    Total -ton  fwr LCal  Foreip    Total
-------mo           ------   -ocal   -------  - -------
h. LIIIh&sa bll
I Kaine stratern                              5,110   14,164   19,344     1.10   6,112   14,644   20,776
2  eclmtin                                     3,202    3,202   6,404     0.96    3,138   3,202    6,340
3 Soil tretatnt                                  722     722    1,444    O.S       71        m      1,430
4 Co.wicatim  pipe                                12       12      24     1.05       13       12       25
5 Open ditchs  for yard kraisa                   265     265      530    O."        262      265      527
6ailway                                          469      469     935     0.97      453      469      924
7 has                                            450     450      900     1.02      459      450      909
6 Storage yrrd paveeost                          67     6US    1,35       1.01      i15      67    1,3
9 Cale ditches                                    49      49       9      1.05       53       49      102
10 Light tower foadatim                            19      19       31     1.01       19       19       33
11 Iuuillary civil orks                         3,935    3,935   7,570     1.1    4,643    3,95    5,573
12 Meter spp;y  e  ewer                           173     573      346     1.01      175      173     341
13  esting  id vontilatia                        60       E0      160     1.00       36       so      116
14 Eavirmewstal pretoctim so  grpisg              94       94      In      1.00       9       94       in
15 Copoants utsik port                           715      715   1,430      1.00      715      715    1,430
16 Trury wkors ad la  Kcquisitim                3,367    3,367   *6,734    1.06    3,569    3,367   6,936
Subtotal- Civil Irks               19,410  20,694   48,304            21,136   23,6S4  50,060
. Equitt
17 Cuor  handling  ispnt                         431  31,132  32,313       1.40      603  31,332   32,465
1 Hahmey repair eWqpt                             12      49       61    1.40        17       49      6
19  tkin4 boats ad vehicles                        0    1,53    3,i3        -          0   1,653    1,653
20 Powr   ply                                     592      592    1,IS4    1.08      639      592   1,231
21 C    wtr                                         0    1,246    1,246     -          0   1,246    1,246
22 Coemusitatio  sad u aniqgtim                   543     306      S51     1.06      56       306      394
23  ther carWo equipst ad failitin                  0    2,763   2,763      -          0   2,763    2,763
Subtotal                            1,576   35,493  40,071             1,U45  31,493   40,336
Spare parts (101                              159   3,649    4,007     1.17      115   3,B49    4,034
Subtotal- Eqoipet                   1,736  42,342   44,078             2,030  42,342   44,372
C. TocA. hesistnce utd Training:
24 Training                                       617     493    1,110     4.00    2,41B      493   2,961
25 Project desip ad tests                       2,331       0   2,331      4.00   9,324         0   9S324
26 Custructi sqwrvision                           370    1,233    1,603    4.00    1,460   1,233   2,713
27 Port anter  I                                  493     493      99      4.00    3,972      493   2,465
26 Port optiw    an study                        247      247      494    4.00       93B      247    1,235
29 Eavironeta    nitoring                         123     123      246    1.40       172      123     295
30 Finacial irerwatil  systn                     370      617      9S7    4.00    1,480       617   2,097
31 Ieproveet of  pratie ad e intmace              123       0      123    4.00       492       0       492
Subtotal- T.I. I Treaing            4,674    3,206    7,660           55,376   3,206  21,582
Total has cost                                25,620   74,442  100,262            41,592  74,442  116,034
Phyuical coatingscin 1101)                        2,562    7,444   10,026             4,159   7,444   11,603
Total                                          20,402  31,33b  110,211     1.16  45,751   U5,36  127,637



Table 5.3 id)
- 73 -
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Calculation of Conversion Factors
For Najor Components
Financial cost    Con-     Economit cost   Weighted
-------------- version   ------------- conversion
Foreign   Local  Factor    Local    Total   factor
Narine Structures
Steel                7,866        0      -          0    7,966
Cement               3,643        0     -           0    ',643
Tiaber               1,290        0     -           0    1,290
Form                     0    4,712    1.00    4,712    4,712
Gravel                   0    7t334    1.00    7,334    7,334
Sand                     0    9,428    1.00    9,429    9,428
Labor                  225    7,957    1.34   10,52B   10,753
Equipment            2,514   13.616    1.40   19,062   21,576
Other                    0    1,04?    1.00    1,047    1,047
Total             15,540   43,993            52,111   67,649     1.19
Auxillary Civil Works
Steel                6,459        0                 0    6.459
Cement               3,489        0      -          0    3,489
Timber                 519        0      -          0      519
Sand                     0    1,615    1.00    1,615    1,615
Gravel                   0    4,225    1.00    4,225    4,225
Labor                    0    3,479    1.34    4,662    4.662
Equipment            1,336    2,485    1.40    3,479    4,815
Total             11,804   11,904    1.00   13,981   25,784      1 16
Temporary Works & Land Acquisition
Sand                     0    4.474    1.00    4,474    4,474
Gravel                   0    3,824    1.00    3,824    3,824
Labor                    0    1,371    1.34    1,837    1,837
Equipment                0      433    1.40       606      606
Cesent              10,101        0      -          0   10 101
Total             10,101   10,101            10,741   20,842     1.06
- ~~~_ --- _-    -- - - -     - - - - - - - - - -     -     - - - - - - -     -



,31
CHINA
NIN6DO PORT PRDJECT
Economic Project Cost
1 000 RNB)
- 1969                           1990                            1991-----
Local   Foretqn       Total   Local   Foreign         Total   Local   Foreign          Total   Local   Foreian         Total
Financial Cost:
6eneral Cargo berths                                     26,809   27.16b   53,975    21,310   57,780    79,090            9,839   21,251    30,090   56,958   106,;97   163,155
Container berth                                          13,3c9   20,94B    34,317    10,626    44,554   55,180           4,408    16,387    20,795    28,403    81,889   110.292
Total                                                40,178   46.114   88,292    31,936  102,334   134,270    13,247    37,638    50,895   95,3cl  190.086  273,447
Economic Cost:
General Carqo berths                                     32.521    32,955   D5,476   25,B51    70,092    95,943    10,722    25,779   36,501    69,094   129,826  197,920
Container berth                                          15,472    24,243   39,715    12.298    51,563    63,961          5,101    18,965    24,066   32,871    94.771   127,642
Total                                                47,994    57,198  105,191   38,149  121,655  159,904    15,923   44,7144    60,567   101,965  223,597  325,562
----             ------------------                                ---        ---           -       ---              - -- - --
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   _ - - _   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ - - - - - - - -I-
0
_   _   _  _  _  _  _   _ _   _           _   _  _       _     _                  _    _                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



- 7S .                                                              iil. 5,4 lab
11)0 Ot PUIECI
Ship It"  ni s. Sibt  d   th Pre              be
llewaj Certe lost)
3985  166  3417            if"    3593   3*2   no    O1S   "a                26
A.  twfFCt    1 3000 TMI/)                2,34  2,26   2,716          4,97 4,5   * 4, 2: 5,           SIM3 9   4,4      &,l
S. IThD)J1 PIWEC)
Ettstiog  sewr1 Carlo  rth
- - ------  - .-- - - -----                                  i2 .2    1   1 2  I 2 l     tj 2*2
1.    k (th(ouerI i 3                     12      2     32            1             U      U      15         15 i       3
2, fraflic I 000 tons)                 2.3,4S Z,2    2,738         4,191  4,5*  4,43  54    5,10  4,13               6,1t
3. bnuoa  thip broth days requied      3,040  2,682  3,221         4,92   5,30  5.*    1t,n95  1,993  up            7,29
4. An,tal ship brth dafs av*elslet    3.720 3        5720 3,120    4,156  4,1 4*U   t  4,411 4,o  4160               o,b
5. barth occupitrt   s *,tt)              82    72    07             1)   31   395)f l    lU4)t                        gm 1
t. Ilttit   tam   eAtUl  3attorS       0.18   0.05   0.23          0.19  *.n   9.73   9.7   9.16   9.7              9.1T
7.  asal) total Ibip port ilysi
a, kttul ship berth days           3,040  2,62  3,22           4.t0  4,439  4.419  443   4,411 4,413             4,415
b. Sbip uattins  days                54t   134  3,00S          ,1627  3,627  5.tD21 35,7  St,1   3,67            15,6
C. Ship lzohtsri q dlay                0      0      0         1,041  l61   z,57  234S  5,t#  2JM                5,50
Iota)                       3,587  2,163  4.284         1,08k  9,90*9,   13.9*lljlZf 33    319           33,13'a
C. 83iH FPRJECT
Etost..; ksra1 Cargo trths
1. Iliths (ousitler                       1       2     12                   is    36 U    6      t,    to             I1
2. Trafflic 1 O   tons,                2,384  2,280  2,7318        4,197  3975  3.17  3,9   43  SItM                 4,7
3. Annual hutp berth dayts reutfed     3,040  2,68   3,223         4,92   3,697  3.12* 3U  3  SIM   3^,              4.723
4.  onanl s*tp berth dvs *f vailable   3,720  ,720  3,720          4W   4,563  4,h *.   41.6 4.91* 4.986             *.9
5. Berth occupancy rat. 11,               82     72    P7            mt5)   44   s1    let        2      1             (t1
b. ValtanQ ties quesuin fiCtorS         v. 8   0.05   0.33          0.15   0.13  6.93  9.46   9.45   9.46            0.15
n,rnu. totm, ship pwt dovs%
A. At:al 0h1P brth dAYS           35.40  2,082  3,221          4      5,36 4>1  3t,5   3,    3,I35 S,tt         4,112
5. Ship  eaiting tays                547   134  ,0t5           S,4U7   5W      Su2    "      97 m     3          3,22
C. sihp lightmfing dey                 0      0      0         3,043      a      9      9      9 1                  0
Total                       3,517 2,816  4,264          t,    4,464  3,64  4,974  4,116 4,43               7,97
3roposml  ulti-purpase  erths
S. bettths isuehr)                                                            I      3     t      2      3              2
2. rraff,c r oo tonss)                                                      573tl  It * 3      3,46   I9            3,1
5. looue  ship berth days requtred                                          20    48   4         49    04             59I
4. bonul ship berth days available                                          Sl3   96    go   Gm    430                43
5. tertha ccspasyrate *r)                                                    It    is    IV       it    Is             95)
6. Vatis4 tie uruiot attort                                                0.1er1.32  , 9.t      49.46   9.46        6.8
7. BAsul total ship part days:
a. ktul ship berth days                                                 2U4    44   9*    40    04                16
6. Ship  Itnat     dabs                                                  34    I4    It    2   14 4N5
c. Skip litbterlnq days                                                   9      I     9r                            4
Total                                                            2m     4n    so    $1       m             991
Ibtest tl  atnul ship bgrtb days required   trellicitMrtaati3 doily cKity W srtL
(ati t     tal sbip berth days aveolaelc * Ousher of brtts o Wrth  Wretlq  es wss WW.
(IU) Berth occupincv rats I minmul shtip  erth days rired I "ml ship birt  fan amatak.
snl vating tine osu s;n factors are froe Port Developmet, iT  19t7A  pO OM   X        2of1
(v)  annual ship wblng days * aontl ship bertb reqired a wItime  tin lin  iN .
1_s lncludes nenconataiaerlize  (snip amo demsttc (41atot).
/2t Traffic sid etee  the prtctical capuaity of the s       tte btb. For the p 5t of t1   mta3     inisb it It bin
asumed that uays  tie hb (sud, c.I., ttrwuh liqhtwrins  to ane tie traffic tbrn# th  Wt 1t30 .5ti86 tim
*ot escnedmng these cerrestadfl to 95t barth ocecctutq rate.
1_3  Three addIstonal gentral carp bartbh  are epece  to be coIted befors 3498.
Srces: Ifo, fSiOO Port Buttiority and Sea stall.



-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~* 5.4 3k)
cairn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al
_76
vim
Ship 7i* bhalsis kithat Be Ilth Prepud Brths
(Centair brttl
I95   916   3967            9M   199    t992  I93   19    S995              2000
A. TRAFIC XNAND 3 000 TWO I /.1             1.3   4.0   5.3           31.8  37.1  43.2  50.4  51.8  (A .               125.2
0. VIJHOUT PIWECT
E istig Contain   r rth
-12    i_2           1 2
1. brths lnu3 rl                           I                              I      I             I   I  I 3             I
L. Traffic t3000 TEUs)                   1.3   4.0   5.3           31.8  37.1  43.2  50.4   5.8   0.6               125.2
3.inaul shipetrth days rqulred             7    21    28            I"    193   225   263   306   357                 652
4. Aul ship Wrth days available          310   330   310            310   310   310   330    310   310                330
5. krth ocupancy rate (1)                  2      7      9           54    62    73    85    3951  (95)               3953
L. Ilting tiet qp ing factors           0.00  0.00   0.00          0.47   0.70   1.18   2.80  9.20   9.20            9.20
7a .ul total ship ert dayso
a. ktul ship t rth days                7    21    28             166   19    225   23    M 295 2f                  9
t. Ship wting days                     0      0      0           71   135   206   736  2,852 2,852              2,852
c. Ship !ightering days                0      0      0            0      0      0      0     23    125            715
Total                           7    21    28            244   328    "       999 3,170 3,277            3, 82
C. IITN PlibECT
E isting Containw Brth
1 births Ia3arl                            I      I      I            I      I
2. Traffic (000 tEUI                     1.3   4.0   5.3           3138     30
3. Anu  ship bttb days reuired             7    21    28            36e    83
4. Bnul ship berth days avaitable        310   310   310            310   330
5. Berth occupancy rate It)                2      7     9            so    21
6. lasting tiUN queuing h acts          0.00   0.00  0.00          0.47   0.02
7. Abnul total stip port daysi
a. ctu5  ship trth days                7    21    28            106    63
. Ship aiting days                     0      0      0           i8      2
c. Ship lighterwg days                 0      0     0             0      0
Total                           7    21    28            244    85
Proposed Cotainer Brths
1. Brths Inuter)                                                             I      I      I      I      I              I
2. Traffic 1000 TVls)                                                       21    43    50    59    69                125
3. anal ship birth days reuired                                             84    86   301   3I1    137              250
4. Beal sbp berth days available                                           310    310   310    310   310              310
5. Brth occPaKYratt  31                                                   27    2B    33    38    44                8l
6. 1IUt1m  time queuing factwrs                                           0.02   0.11  0.15   0.21  0.29             2.06
7. bk l total ship part days:
a. Actual ship berth days n4                                                   8    03   338    37              250
b. Ship waiting days                                                     2      9     15    25    40              515
c. Ship lightering days                                                  0      0      0      0      0             0
Total                                                            86    95   336   143   177                7U5
Itets  lil  emi ship berth days rvired * trafficlthertical daily capcity per brth.
13  anmual ship brrth days available * sumer of  berths g beth epatilm  day per yr.
litil birth occupancy rate * mnaul ship berth da;; required I asAal ship  arth days available.
livl wioting te  qewing fators are froe Port  eilopont UNCtTA  1978, pag 209 nd 230.
Iv)  amMl  ship siting days * mul ship berth repired i saiting tim  qaing fKctwo.
1vil all the figures are remde.
1_1: Incldn foreip, dometic (iloat) and  pty centardnns.
Ip  Traffic wold exceed the practical capcitY Of thse brths. Fer the purpon Of the cOwmic evalUatim  it has bee
asomd that ways will he fend, e.g., tbroug  lightering, to ueD  the traffic throegh the port with waiting tims
ant macriding thoe  corroepoding to 95S berth occapa    rate.
,.3j  lb first yr throughput capcity is asaed to be 501 of demped capacity sin   the pope    wrth is to bh
ceplWted in the first half of 1991.
Swrces93lhC, rho Pert Authwrity ad as k staff.



- 77  -                                                                Table 5.5 la)
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Loadingiunloading Co%t Sayings
General Carqo Berths
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995              2000
A. Traf4ic denand l 000 tons)                                 4,546  4.833  5,028  5,094  4,991             6,128
D. berth capacity at 951 occupancy rate C000 tons)
Without project                                       3,750  3,750  3,750  3,750  3,750              3,750
With project                                          4,396  5,296  5.296  5,29b  5,296              5,296
C. Traffic handling (l000 tons)
Without project       At Berth                        3,750  3,750  3,750  3,750  3.750              3,750
Lightering                       796  1,083  1,278  1,344  1,231              2,378
Total                        4,546  4,833  5,028  5,094  4,981              b,128
With project          At Berth                        4.398  4,833  5,028  5,094  4,981              5,29b
Lightering                       148       0       0      V       0             832
Total                        4,546  4,633  5,028  5,094  4,981              6,128
D. Loadinglunloading costs (Yuan million) i 1
Without project       At Berth                        17.25  17.25  17.25  17.25  17.25              17.25
Lightering 1_2                 11.51  15.65  18.47  19.43  17.79              34.37
Total                        20.76  32.9o  35.72  36.69  35.04              51.62
With project          At Berth                        19.33  21.25  22.10  22.;9  21.90              23.28
Liqhtering /_2                  2.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00              11.49
Total                        21.37  21.25  22.10  22.39  21.90             34.77
E. Net loadinqnunloadinq savings tiuan millioni                1.39  11.65  13.62  14.29  13.14             16.85
Notes: i 1: The economic factor for handling cost are: (a.) At berth -  1.05 and (b.) Lightering -   1.10
/I2: Lightering costs are taken to be three times handling cost at berth.
Sources: NOC, Ningbo Part Authority and Bank staff.



- 78  -                                                      Table 5.5 lb)
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Loading/unloading Cost Savings
Container berth
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995              2000
A. traffic desand ( 000 TEUs'                                 31.1   43.4   50.4   58.8   68.o              145.4
B. Berth capacity at 951 occupancy rate i Ob TEUs,
Without project                                        57.0   57.0   57.0   57.0   57.0              57.0
hith project                                          130.4  146.8  146.8  14b.8  146.8             146.8
C. Traffic handling i()0O tons)
Without project       At Berth                         37.1   43.2   50.4   57.0   57.0              57.0
Lightering                       0.0    0.0    0.0    1.8   11.6              68.2
Total                         37.1   43.2   50.4   58.8   68.6             125.2
With project          At Berth                         37.1   43.2   50.4   58.8   69.6             125.2
Lightering                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0               0.0
Total                         37.1   43.2   50.4   58.8   68.6             125.2
D. Loading/unloading costs iluan million) t I
Without project       At Berth                         3.12   3.63   4.23   4.79   4.79              4.79
Lightering i_2                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.48   3.06             18.00
Total                         3.12   3.63   4.23   5.27   7.85             22.79
With project          At Berth                         3.12   3.63   4.23   4.94   5.76             10.52
Lightering !_2                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00              0.00
Total                         3.12   3.63   4.23   4.94   5.76             10.52
E. Net loading/unloading savings ttuan million)               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.33   2.09             12.27
_______________-- ______-----------__--___-_              ==2==  =====  =:Z=:=  C====  ==S=2            =C====
Notes: / 1: The economic factor for handling cost are: ta.) At berth -  0.00 and (b.) Lsghterinq -   0.00
it2: Lightering costs are taken to be three times handling cost at berth.
Sources: NOC, Ningbo Port Authority and Bank staff.



79                                                    Table 5.6
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Container Sea Transport Costs & Savings /_I
fUS$/TEU)
-------Vessel Sizes------    Cost
400 TEU I_2  1,400 TEU/_3   Savings
Assumed Voyage Conditions
1. Voyage Distance- 1,000 n.s.
a. No access delay at port                     103            lOt             2
b. 24 hour acress delay                        132            124            a
2. Voyage Distance- 1,600 n.n.
a. No attess delay at port                     133            127            6
b. 24 hour access delay                        161            149            12
3. Voyage Distance- 5,1bO n.e.
a. No access delay at port                     320           264            56
b. 24 hour access delay                        34M           207            62
Notes: 1/3: Based on the 'Ship Cost Nodel", Transportation Departeent, The world
Bank.
/_2: Average load factor assueed to be 6Ol and loadinqJ discharging rate
to be 150 teu/day.
1_3: Average load factor assumed to be SOX and loading/ discharging rate
to be 300 teu/day.



- 80 -                                              Table 5.7
CHINA
NINA11 PORT PROJECT
Ecoomit Bnefits Sumary
weral Cargo anJ Container Berths
fY *illion)
1991   1992  1993   1994  1995            2000
-- -  -    -   ----                           -    -   ---  -   -- --  -_- - - - - - - - -- - -       
6eneral Carlo 8erth
Ports, Loading/vnlviding svIup                  7.39  11.65  13.62  14.29  13.14          16.85
Ships port days avinp                          4.95  59.93  61.84  62.74  61.20           50.19
Cargo part days savI"s                         15.11  18.06  18.85  19.21  18.58          12.66
Less: Benefits accring to fuorpers (101          7.14   9.95   9.43   9.62   9.29           7.97
Subtotal                                  64.21  80.59  84.86  96.62 93.63           71.73
Container Berth
Parts: Lo dingimlouilg uvln                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.33   2.09          12.27
Ships port days avinp                           1.54   6.72  17.23  64.97  65.72          52.06
Cargo port days  uving                          0.32   0.77   1.98   7.52   7.69           7.00
Transport cost usvig                            0.96   1.12   1.31   1.52   1.78           3.24
Less: Benefits accruing to furelpws (101)         0.28   0.96   2.05   7.43   7.73           7.46
Subtotal                                   2.54   7.75  18.47  66.91  69.55          67.11
Total                                            66.75  99.34 103.35 153.53 153.19         139.4
Note: 1. All the fiures we rhdd.
Sources:  MOC, Ningbo Pwt bAthority and ank staff.



4
CHINA
NIN6BO PORT PROJECT
Econoemc Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analvsis
6eneral Cargo Berths
million Yuan
t20 years)
-------------Base Case---------- -          ------Case 1-------         ------Case 2                ------- -Case 3--------        -------Cse 4--------
--------Costs-------   Total    met                          Net                          Net                          Net                 Benefits   Net
Capital Waint-          Bene-   Cash        Costs Benefits  Cash         Costs benefits  Cash         Costs Benefits  Cash           Costs (Delay    Cash
Year         nvest. enance  Total   fits   Flop          1+151)          Flow                (-151)   Flow         1+152) (-152)   Flow                I year)   Flom
1989         65.48         65.48          (65.5)         75.30         (75.3)         65.49         (65.5)         75.30           (75.3)        65.48         (65.48)
1990         95.94          95.94        (95.94)        110.33        (110.3)         95.94         (95.94)       110.33          1110.3)        95.94         (95.94)
1991         36.50  13.26  49.76  64.21  14.45           57.22  64.21   6.99          49.76  54.59   4.92          57.22   54.58  (2.64)         49.76         149.76)                         1
1992                13.26  13.26  80.59  b7'.33          15.25  90.59  65.34          13.26  6B.50  55.24          15.25   69.50  53.25          13.26  84.21  50.95
1993                13.26  13.26  84.89  71.62           15.25  84.99  69.63          13.26  72.15  59.89          15.25   72.15  56.90          13.26  90.59  67.33
1994                13.26  13.26  86.62  73.36           15.25  96.62  71.37          13.26  73.63  60.37          15.25   73.63  59.38          13.26  84.5   71.62
1995                13.26  13.26  83.63  70.37           15.25  93.63  68.38          13.26  71.09  57.83          15.25   71.09  55.84          13.26  86.62  73.3e
199b                13.26  13.26  81.25  67.99           15.25  81.25  66.00          13.26  69.06  55.90          15.25   69.0b  53.81          13.2o  83.63  70.37
1997                13.26  13.26  78.97  65.61           15.25  78.97  63.62          13.26  67.04  53.78          15.25   67.04  51.79          13.26  81.25  67.99
1998                13.26  13.26  76.49  63.23           15.25  76.49  61.24          13.2b  65.02  51.7b          15.25   65.02  49.77          13.26  78.97  65.61
1999                13.26  13.26  74.11  60.85           15.25  74.11  50.96          13.26  62.99  49.73          15.25   62.99  47.74          13.26  76.49  63.23
2000                 13.26  13.26  71.73  58.47          15.25  71.73  5b.48          13.26  60.97  47.71          15.25   60.97  45.72          13.26  74.11  60.85
2001                19.89  19.89  71.73  51.84           22.97  71.73  48.86          19.99  60.97  41.09          22.87   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
2002                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51.94          22.87  71.73  48.96          19.89  60.97  41.08          22.97   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
203                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51.84           22.87  71.73  49.86          19.99  60.97  41.09          22.87   60.97  39.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
2004                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51.94          22.97  71.73  48.96          19.89  60.97  41.08          22.87   60.97  38.10          19.99  71.73  51.84
2005                19.89  19.89  71.73  51.84           22.87  71.73  48.86          19.89  60.97  41.09          22.87  b6.97  39.10           19.99  71.73  51.84
200b                 19.99  19.99  71.73  51.94          22.87  71.73  48.86          19.89  60.97  41.08          22.87   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
2007                19.89  19.89  71.73  51.84           22.97  71.73  49.8b          19.89  60.97  41.08          22.87   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
2009                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51.94          22.97  71.73  48.96          lv.89  60.97  41.09          22.97   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.94
2009                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51004          22.97  71.73  48.86          19.99  60.97  41.08          22.97   60.97  38.10          19.89  71.73  51.84
2010                 19.89  19.89  71.73  51.84          22.87  71.73  49.86          19.99  60.97  41.08          22.97   60.97  39.10          19.99  71.73  51.84
Total       197.92 331.50 529.42 1499.7  970.3          609.80 1499.7  990.9         529.42 1274.7 745.31      .     f .80 1214.73 665.93       529.42 1428.0  698.5                          0D
ERR =  30.1 2                ERR    25.4 2                ERR    24.7 2                ERR    t20.4 2                ERR =  23.1 t _



CHINA
NINBBO PORT PROJECT
Econoac Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
Container Berth
Nillion Yuan
t20 vears)
-------------Base Case----------                   Case   2-----       -      Case 2 ------Case 3as  4--------
--------Costs-------   Total    Net                          met                          Net                           Net                Benefits   Net
Capital faint-          bene-   Cash         Costs knefits  Cash          Costs Benefits  Cash         Costs Benefits  Cash          Costs (Delay    Cash
Year        invest. enante  Total   fits   Flow           MM15)           Flow               (-151)   Flow          (+151) (-15%)   Flow                I year)   Flow
1989         39.72          39.72         t39.7)         45.68           45.7)        39.72          (39.7)        45.68           (45.7)         39.72         i39.72)
1990         63.86          63.96          (63.9i        73.44          (73.4J        b3.86          163.91        73.44            73.4)         63.86        (63.86)
1991         24.07   9.55  32.62   2.54  (30.1)          37.51   2.54  (35.0)         32.62   2.16  130.5)         37.51    2.16  (35.4)          32.62         (32.6
1992                 8.55   8.55   7.75  -0.90            9.93   7.75  -2.08           8.55   b.59  -1.96           9.93    6.59  i3.24)           9.55   2.54  (6.01)
1993                 8.55   8.55  18.47   9.92            9.93  18.47   8.64           8.55  15.70   7.13           9.93   15.70   5.87            9.55   7.75  (O.B90
194                 9.55   9.55  66.91  59.36            9.93  66.91  57.09           9.55  5b.97  49.32           9.83   5b.87  47.04            9.55  19.47     92
1995                 B.55   9.55  69.55  61.00            9.83  69.55  59.72           8.55  59.12  50.57           9.93   59.12  49.29            8.55  66.91  59.36
1996                 9.55   9.55  67.17  58.62            9.93  07.17  57.34           9.55  57.09  49.54           9.83   57.09  47.26            9.55  61.55  61.00
1997                 8.55   9.55  64.79  56.24            9.83  64.79  54.96           8.55  55.07  46.52           9.83   55.07  45.24            8.55  67.17  58.62
1999                 9.55   9.55  62.41  53.86            9.93  62.41  52.59           8.55  53.05  44.50           9.93   53.05  43.22            9.55  b4.79  56.24
1999                 8.55   6.55  60.03  51.48            9.83  60.03  50.20           8.55  51.03  42.49           9.93   51.03  41.20            9.55  62.41  53.86
200W                  8.55   8.55  67.11  59.56           9.83  67.11  57.28           9.55  57.04  4B.49           9.83   57.04  47.21            8.55  60.03  51.48
2001                 12.83  12.83  67.11  54.29          14.75  67.11  52.3b          12.83  57.04  44.21           14.75   57.04  42.29          12.83  67.11  54.29
2002                 12.93  12.93  67.11  54.29          14.75  67.11  52.36          12.83  57.04  44.21           14.75   57.04  42.29          12.83  67.11  54.28
2003                 12.83  12.93  67.11  54.29          14.75  67.11  52.36          12.93  57.04  44.21           14.75   57.04  42.29          12.83  67.11  54.29
200*                 12.93  12.93  67.11  54.28          14.75  67.11  52.36           12.83  57.04  44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.93  67.11  54.28
2Q;J5                12.83  12.93  67.11  54.29          14.75  67.11  52.36           12.93  57.04  44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.93  67.11  54.29
2006                 12.83  12.83  67.11  54.28          14.75  67.11  52.36           i2.93  57.04  44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.93  67.11  54.28
.OOi                 12.63  1 .83  o.il 54.iK            14.75  o;.il 52.6            i .83  5i.v4  44.21           14.75   57.04  42.2;          12.83  o7.i1  54.28
2009                 12.83  12.83 r7.11  54.26           14.75  67.11  52.36           12.93  57,0   44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.93  67.11  54.28
2009                 12.93  12.93  67.11  54.28          14.75  67.11  52.36           12.93  57.04  44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.83  67.11  54.29
2010                 12.83  12.83  67.11  54.28          14.75  67.11  52.36           12.93  57.04  44.21          14.75   57.04  42.29          12.93  67.11  54.28
Total       127.65 213.90 341.45 1157.8 816.39          392.60 1157.8 765.23         341.45 994.12 642.1          392.6O  984.12 591.52          341.45 100.7 74.27
ERR    22.6 1                ERR    19.9 1                ERR =  19.5 ;.               ERR =   16.9 1                 ERR    19.1 1
----------- - ---------------------------------------- - -- - ------------- - ---___-- _ ------------------------------------------------------------------------  ___-- __---



4
NI [HBO PORT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return 1ERR and Sensitivity Analysis
6eneral Cargo and Container Berths
i Million Yuan
i20 years)
-------------Base Case-------------      ------Case 1--------      -------Case 2--------      --------Case 3--------      -------Case 4--------
--------Costs-------  Total   Net                       Net                         Net                       Net                Benefits  Net
Capital Maint-        8ene-  Cash        Costs Benefits Cash        Costs Benefits Cash        Costs Benefits  Cash        Costs (Delay   Cash
Year       invest. enance Total  fits  Nlow          (+Is2)         Flow               i-151)  Flow        (+152) (-152)  Flow               I year)  Now%
1999       105.20        105.20       (105.2)       120.98       (121.0)       105.20       t105.2)       120.98        (121.0)       105.20       i105.2)
1990       159.60        159.80       (159.8)       183.77       1183.9)       159.90       (159.5)       193.77        (153.9)       159.90        (159.8)                    c
1991        60.57 21.81  82.38  66.75 -15.63         94.74  66.75  '29.0)       82.39  56.74 -25.64        94.74  56.74  (38.0)        82.38        (92.4)
1992               21.B1  21.81 99.34  66.53         25.08 88.34  63.26         21.91  75.09  53.28        25.08   75.09  50.01        21.91  66.75  44.94
1993               21.01  21.91 103.35  91.54        25.08 103.35 78.27         21.81  97.65  66.04        25.08  87.85  62.77         21.81  88.34  66.53
1994               21.81  21.81 153.53 131.72        25.08 153.53 128.45        21.81 130.50 108.69        25.08  130.50 105.42        21.91 103.35 91.54
15                21.81  21.91 153.15 131.37        25.08 153.18 128.10        21.81 130.20 108.39        25.08  130.20 105.12        21.91 153.53 131.72
19S6               21.81  21.81 150.80 129.99        25.08 150.90 125.72        21.81 129.19 106.37        25.09  128.19 103.10        21.91 153.19 131.37
1997               21.81  21.91 148.42 126.61        25.08 149.42 123.34        21.81 126.16 104.35        25.08  126.16 101.OB        21.91 150.90 128.99
199                21.91  21.81 146.04 124.23        25.00 146.04 120.96        21.81 124.13 102.32        25.08  124.13 99.05         21.91 149.42 126.61
1999               21.91  21.81 143.66 121.85        25.09 143.66 119.58        21.81 122.11 100.30        25.08  122.11  97.03        21.81 146.04 124.23
2000               21.91  21.89  138.84 117.03       25.08 13B.B4 113.76        21.91 118.01  96.20        25.08  118.01  92.93        21.81 143.66 121.85
2001               32.72  32.72 138.84 106.12        37.63 139.84 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.b3  118.01  80.39        32.72 138.84 106.12
2002               32.72  32.72 139.84 106.12        37.63 138.84 101.21        32.72 113.01  85.29        37.63  118.01 80.38         32.72 138.84 10b.32
2903               32.72  32.72 tVQ.84 106.12        37.63 138.84 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  90.39        32.72 138.94 106.12
2004               32.72  32.72 138.84 106.12        37.63 138.84 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  80.38        32.72 138.84 10b.12
2005               32.72  32.72 138.84 10k.12        37.63 139.94 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  80.38        32.72 139.84 106.12
2006               32.72  32.72 138.94 106.12        37.63 138.94 101.21        32.72 118.01  95.29        37.63  118.01  90.38        32.72 138.84 106.12
2007               32.72  32.72 138.84 106.i2        37.63 138.84 101.21        32.72 119.01  95.29        37.63  118.01  80.39        32.72 138.84 106.12
2009               32.72  32.72 138.84 106.12        37.63 138.84 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  80.38        32.72 138.84 106.12
2009               32.72  32.72 138.94 106.12        37.63 139.84 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  80.38        32.72 138.94 106.12
2010               32.72  32.72 139.84 1N.12         37.63 139.94 101.21        32.72 118.01  85.29        37.63  118.01  80.38        32.72 138.94 106.12
Total      325.57 545.30 670.97 2681.3 1810.4       1001.5 2681.3 1679.8       870.97 2279.1 1409.2       1001.5 2279.07 1277.6       870.87 2542.5 1671.6 
-------                                  ------ -    -              -------   ---------  ----- -    ---------- ------                   ----
ERR: 26.7                  ERR   23.0 2               ERR: 22.4 2                ERR =  18.9 2               ERR: 21.5 t
NPV 1122) :302.67          WY i12%t :247.74           WPV (122) :202.33          IPV  122) = 147.41          NPV Q121) p221.86
-_--------------------------------------------------------------------- - _   -- _ ------------------__   ---------------------------------------------------------------



-      -                                                                          Table 141
Ilcou  Stateett
ltieu eosdlp" SI, Deceteer
,i 000,
kctuil                                                 forecast
_   _   _ --~---     ----------  -- ..    -----------  ---------------             ----- . ---------- -------
1994     1905      lU9b       198I"?    19l80         9       li7lV      1i41       992       1993       1994
.. ..... .. ..        ... .         - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - -        ...  .. .   . ..... .... . . . . . . . . .
li,fic   Vy ton
dnoie hort                      5,974  l1,404   17,952    19,390    23,815    29,250    35,920    39,441    43,309    47,53.    52,18b
|fet aotGlat,                   3,734    7,v28   14,192    15,o08    18,400    22,000    20,9;0    26.704    30.SuB    32,3I2    34,11o
o&dii9'UIl6ifnlg              24.i51   30,096   35,1i0    52.147    bO,;72    84,943   110,64b    125,687   142429    10b,481   190,44;
$tvra9e                         1,127    5,754   12,421    15,875    20,269    25,941   333,'7          :9,384    43,441    49,009    55,12i
Other                           e,195   1U,013   12,488    13,950    17,69a    22,634    29,471    33,492    ;7,9v    42,7o3    48,095
9urfeting                         124      230    1,280         b70        795     1,017      1,325      1.505     l'4        11,922     2,1oi
Suitcta                        3i,397   49.0,9    6l,280    82,b64    105,122   134,535   0I5,I'2   199,vO6    225.29'   254.174   285.61
-    . - --   -----   ----  ----         --------  ------  --  ---@- -    ----  ---------  -            -
Ceratlpq 7a,es I1
LoW0l'urloading                  748      96b     1130       1,69s     2,043      2,504.    3,338       3,793     4.293      4,843      5,447
stofrae                            34      .08       065        858     1,020      I,305      1,099      1,3;1     i,185      2,405      2,773
Othe                              l37      475       4e8        449        534       683        899      1,011      1,144     1,291      1.452
ftal4ting                           i         2       40          8          8         10        13         15         l7        19          i
Totil operat,90 tax              9b61    1751    2,3*.       ,,05       .      5b  4,502      5,29       b759      7,o39      8,o15      96b94
het jule-
.wding1 loid081n0             14,2v3   29.13v   33,970    5u,457    04.369    82,379   l').io;   121,694   17,955   155,6,?   175,(96
steraot                         1,093    5,44*   11,756    15,01'    15.249    24,b62        32,gfl    30,453    41.25o    46,544    52,346
ot*er                           o,018   1,538   12,.20    13,501       17,15i    21,951    28,582    32,481    3o,760    41,47          4,.043
Alrting                           12i       228    1,.24        "0         781     1,007      1,312      1. 4"      1,687     1,903      2,14v
Iota. ht Sales                 31,43.  47,i42   58,98O    79,.37   1*1,557   129,973   169,233   192.318   217.6o8   245.556   276,177
_  - - - -    __ -  - - *    ,_+^  _   __ -       - _       ~~~~~~.....-.  ----- -  _ - -- -- ---
uperatirG Costs
LOlN109aftiOldin*             13,927   21.167   2.40,2    42,666    4i,944        ol.773    7a.900    Bo.022    94,943   103,503   113,144
itorM9                            o79    1,437    1,707       3,466     4,414      5,648      7,355      8,358     9,459    10,671    12,09^
f9ei                            3,e63    7,404    h,458       8,35'    t0,639    123,16    17,729    20,149    22,Bs2    25,725    28,933
fwbotifn                          121      208       728        603        'e7       982      1,378      1,453      1,644     1,855      2,s04
otal operating costs          2v.59/)  3,,246   3.245    54,491    6Sbz   8&.019   103,2.2   115,981   128,848   141.9 l 15o.1f5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - ----    - -_- - --                                       -_- -- _..-- -
Operating Profic
LOIdtding,m 0d0i4n              8,21b    7,903    5,508       8,391    14,427    20,686    30,362    35,873    43,012    52,074    ol,902
Storage                           414    4,009   20,049    11,551    14,935    18999    24,72          2,095    31,797    35,8n3   40. 34
othlr                           2,155    5,054    5,562      5,144      6,513      8,325    16,853    12,333    13,958    15,747    17,710
re   etin9                          1        20      512         59         20        25         34         37         43        48         54
0Tot0  Operating Profit        10,846   17,046   21,b71    25,145    35,795    4?,954    65,971    76,337    89,810   103.742   120,012
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..-_ -    ---- _. .__. .____...
Interest  hEares                                0         0          0          0     2,757      4,329     5,430      o,845      6,845      6,768
Wonioperatin,  Inc..                 7a0       631      738        702        894     1,144      1,4%       1,693      1,917     2,162      2,43i
lnwat     tinq  Espos                921    1,411    1,900       2,136      2,722     3,484      4,537      5,155     5,835      6,583      7,403
Profit Before Tun ae10,.                    16,2a6   20,529    23,711    2.,967    42,857    58.595    67,445    78,047    92,476   108,273
IncCs  TA I  2                 5,984    8,890    8,000       5,270      5,270      5,270      5,270     5,270      5,270      5,270     5.270
at%&  luAnS                     2,055    3,756    4,926       1,600     2,293      2,893      3,955     4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000
Net Profit after list              2,760    4,510    7,663    16,841    2,,404    34,694    49.370    58,275    68,777    83,206    99,003
OperatIng Ratio                   65.5     .4.0      63,2      d.4        o4.8       b3.1       61.0      e0.3       59.2       57.8      5e,5
9otorr oa Asstts Eaployeditf       5,0      4.9       5.0        5.0       6.0        7.0        9.0        9.0      10.0       12.0       14.0
/.11 StartlG9 192a, 8.61 of opiritIfo   tax   are d ad or educati   Ite".
12, 8ffre 1985- 551 of total profit befre then, a flat  nnul paytet of8 oilion loan betmn  1985-8b
aad 5.27  nilles tom  etb.o. 1987-90.
Ia8I



- 85  -                                                           Table 6.2
CHINA
NlNh60 HARBOUR ADMINISTRATION BUREAU
Sources and Applications of Funds
nvear enling 31, Decembert
-------
Actual                                                Forecast
1984     1985     1986       1987      1988       1989      199v      1991       1992      1993       1994
Source
Profit before taxes           10,699   16,266   20,529    23,711    33,967    42,957    58,595    67,445    78,047    92,476   108,273
Depreciation                   9,473    9,649   13,48b    18,307    19,693    23,060    26,494    28,740    30,114    30,424    30,885
State funds                   29,473    7,665   61,514   110,051    32,970    39,531    38,954    37,129    14,470        6,000      9,845
Other gov. contribution            0        0   14,400          0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0
Borroming - I8RD                   0        0         (         0          0    40,?00    37,000    25,900    33,300           0         0
- Local                 0         0        0     2,b40    11,120    36,915    19,702    18,590        t,302     3,793      b,032
Total Sources               49,645   33,580  109,929   154,709    97,750   182,063   190,745   177,794   162,233   132,893   154,035
Applications
Payments to the State:
income tax                  5,884    9,o00    8,000       5,270     5,27       5,270     5,270     5,270      5,270                5,270
Other                        2,055    3,756    4,926      4,000     4,000      4,000     4,00)     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000
Capital expenditure           26,328    7,665   61,515   110,050    44,090   108,622   110,752    72,479    44,322        9,993    14,977
Special fund expenditure       5,150   12,220)  19,019    12,994    12,992    16,392    22,412    25,798    29,952    35,372    41.414
Loan repayment-lORD                0        u         0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0      o,314
-Local              0         0        0         0      4,470     8,783    10,659    13,659    13,639    12,9B9    12,959
Change w/capital              7,780)  20,912  il4,8981   38.708   139,093,        (2311      (91,       1971       99       332        344
Total Applications         31,637   38,013   77,562   171,022    31,729   142,836   153,002   121,109    97,182    67,956    85,178
Net Funds Flow                   19,008   t4,433)  32,307   (Ie,3131   f6,021    39,227    27,743    56,6B5    65,051    64,937    68,857
Opening Balance                3,167   21,175   16,742    49,109    32,796    98,817   139,044   165,797   222,472   287,523   352,460
Closing Balance               21,175   16,742   49,109    32,796    98,917   I.,,044   1cS,787   222,472   287,523   352,460   421,317
D/6 Cover                           -        -         -        -          12.0       7,5       8.0        ;.0       7.9        9.5       7.2
mlay-B



- 86 -                                                 Tble 6.3
CHINA
NINSDO MAWJR ADNINISTRATION IMEAU
Balance Sheet (at Dec.31)
(YI0001
ctual                                              Forecast
1984    1995    1996       1987      1989      1999     1990       1I91     1992      1993      1994
Assets
ZZ222M
Fixed assets
At cost                  411,937  419,602  481,117   591,167   635,257   743,979  954,631   927,110   971,432   981,425  996,302
Less, depreciation        14,165  23,814   37,300   55,607    75,300    98,360   124,854   153,594   183,708  214,132   245,017
Subtotal                   397,772 395,799  443,917   535,560   559,957   645,519   729,777  773,516   787,724   767,293   751,295
Current assets
Inventory                  3,004  16,399    5,353   46,952      9,439    11,772   14,821    16,647    19,494   20,355    22,415
Receivables                8,059    9,130   12,031     7,870    10,011    12,812    16,692    18,957    21,455    24,205   27,224
Cash                      21,175   16,742   FfSi9   32,796    99,817   138,044   165,787   222,472   287,523   352,460   421,317
Subtotal                    32,237   41,260   66,493   87,618   110,267   162,628   197,290   258,076   327,472   397,020   470,956
SpeiAl fund assets          11,980   11,624   29,997    36,359    36,359    36,359   36,359    36,359    36,359    36,359   36,359
Total Asets                441,989  449,672  540,307   659,537   714,583   844,506   963,426 1,067,951 1,151,555 1,200,672 1,258,600
-s:uzu    *U-U3U  3332223   222U28 2*----3   2Z22232   322322 a3222322 22223222  =22222  22222z22
Liabilities & Equity
===a    3||=
State funds-Contributed    397,772  395,798  443,916  535,560   548,937   56f,30.  576,769   595,157   569,513   545,099   523,049
Internal funds for port
developeent                   0        0        0    4,351    16,056   33,251    60,164    92,541   131,466   179,300  236,899
L/T loans - ISRD                 0        0        0        0         0   40,700   77,700   103,600   136,900   136,900   130,506
- Local                0        0        0    2,640     9,290   37,422   46,465    51,396    44,049    35,053    28,126
Current liabs.              19,842   11,486   19,250    17,980   21,701    27,066    34,076    38,274    42,520    46,799    51,534
Special funds               25,275   41,398   77,241    99,006   119,699   141,759   169,253   196,993   227,107   257,531   290,416
Total Lia. & Equity        441,999  449,672  540,307   659,537   714,583   844,506   963,426 1,067,951 1,151,555 1,200,672 1,258,600
X=scum=  u =-====   ==L_=== U2==2z    3222===2   ===2==2 :       c2 =22 23:   :3= = 2=2az2202 3=2=3=32z
Dbt:Capital (71                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.5       1.6      11.6      16.3      19.6      20.5     19.2      17.3
Current Ratio                  1.7      3.6      3.5       4.9      5.4       6.0       5.B       6.7       7.7      8.5       9.1
Nay-8B



Table 6.4
- 87 -
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
General
1.        Inflation (Z)                         1988            8.0
1989            7.0
1990 onwards   6.5
Income Statement
2.   Tariffs:  constant in real terms at 1987 level.
3.   Unit costs (excluding depreciation):  constant in real terms at 1987
level.
4.   Interest charges:  at 5% on Bank loan proceeds onlent, 3.6% on local
loans.
5.Income tax:, flat payment of V 5.27 m annually.
6.Other payments to state: Energy and transport levy at 6.75% of pretax
profit plus 15% of depreciation charge, subject to a masimum of Y 4
million.
7.   Allocation of profit:
Port Development Fund: 55% of pretax profit, less payment in lieu nf
income tax.
Przduction Development, Bonus and Welfare Funds: remainder.
Funds Flow Statement
8.   State Funds and Local Borrowing:  as scheduled by NPA.
9.   Capital expendicure:  as planned by NPA thereafter.
10.  Special fund expenditure:  equal to allocation of profit to Production
Development, Bonus and Welfare Funds.
11.  Loan Repayment:  over 20 years including 5 grace.



Chart A
_88 -
CHINA
I                             S~~~~~~~~~~~NGDO PORT PROJC
I~~~~~~~~~~~gnooa ChcdbNtlangbo PcAho*V
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mg                                          re
Dj atX                          ssio
_- l
_      _ leuc_ n  &
DPe  of               se                       i 
.40 _Od    On          D*
TOI I



- 89 -                               Chart B
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Item                                  1987       1988      1989     1990     1991
1. Container & multipurpose
wharf construction                                                       -
2. Land area and storage
yards                                              ------
3. Roads
4. Railways
5. Equipment
6. Auxiliary Buildings
7. Water supply and sewerage
8. Power Supply
8. Environmental protection



Chart C
- 90 -
CHINA
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
Procurement Packaging and Scheduling
Commodity
inspection
Equipment, work    and communication
Marine structure    boats and vehicle   navigation facili-
(Package 1)          (Package 2)        ties (Package 3)
Start    Complete   Start    Complete   Start    Complete
General procurement notice           -       12/25/87      -         -          -          -
Prequalification documents        05/01/88  06/30/88       -         -          -          -
Prequalification evaluation       07/01/88  07/30/88       -         -          -          -
Submitting bid document to
IBRD                            07/30/88  08/15/88  07/30/88  08/15/88  03/01/89  04/15/89
Printing bid document             08/15/88  08/30/88  11/01/88  12/01/88  04/15/89  05/15/89
Bidding                           09/01/88  11/01/88  12/01/88  02/15/89  05/15/89  07/30/89
Evaluation                        11/01/88  12/30/88  02/15/89  04/15/89  08/01/89  10/01/89
Submitting evaluation report
to IBRD                         01/01/89  01/30/89  05/01/89  06/01/89  10/01/89  11/01/89
Contract                          01/30/89  02/28/89  06/01/89  07/01/89  11/01/89  12/01/89
Construction start                04/15/89  10/15/91      -          -          -          -



'B
Lighttouat                                                                                         }                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A
iJght Ho...                                                                                                                                                              NINGBO  PORT PROJECT
-1                    ~~~~~~~~EXISTING  FUTURE PROJECT
| -~.         -'   '{SEA WALLS/DIKES
RAILROADS
m ^            Iy WM  BUAILDINGS
: 'on,. 'STS "                                                                                                                      '" IO INMT METERS(WATER DEPT. 
4  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
\INTERNATIONAL EUNDARIES
0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
1                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
/    E I L U N
JINTANGSEAN
ONGOLIA                                                                                                                                                         ZHNA                                               ILN
C,, -;-,>                                                                                                                    o,i NCl SONISTUKR_ICT_   J                                          ,
^0 N~~~~~~A              EM. PEOPLES                           .BB                              Msr igo/
\                                                                       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
flEINIG. .h-d   REP. OF KOREA                                                       ~'S                                                                     '    i9oSoo
-D.Rw   -,R'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EoSo
roo   ' './RP.
OindAoo KOE
*So.ooogon5                                                                                                           r,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,  REIWN DISTRICT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIUDITRC
C H INA                 SNigbo                                                                                                                     T N,ogbo 
H- ~   ~       ~       ~       -
.0KONG, UX
VIT-  MACAO. PORT.                       0
ND'1,                           PHILIPPINESToi,o



120'                                                           121 -Ii2
\\      </v1,j,;         -        ~~~~~~Nontonog
-1i             Zhongj i agang                                                                                                      32b
Jiangyin..
.  .   Jiangyin     Shozhou,'        .                           ,,        J
X  ochon9zhou                                                O/              \     Qidong
o<            J  I 4 i(7  .il                                   '':'N,                      '"
oC ongs.u                            CHONGMING
>>>>   '   O Chongshu                 Chongming
-                                   0          DO~~~~~0 .
Wuxi ' '6,                 '            ''
takang              aooshon
X' ,-                                  - \  *  *  aKunshai p        jioding     e     0Gaoqiao
/!  , ,l  Suzhou              .
>   rA I  H U          ' '.       .y            
-      Chuonsho
C  wuiang
- ; l                                             Owufiang )  . , .   g ;   Qingpu   Shanghai
Ch       S ing              7   ,                                           Songjiang          - -       Nonhui                                  31
,'e    ' /.  N                 )\0. '-   4,  Jinshon  _    Fengxian
_Huzhd,u0                                            0
Huzou   --      -       Jax                  Jiosh an      '
EA .5 F C/rIIN         i;
Jinsiharwei
__  g                 ~~~~~Pinghu
Xinshi
Zii ;        i/  J          /  A d  P'  {-  #
_       H  N-     C-,     i
,_2HangzliOu                  / J          U M  ANG2'1r'0ThODaishdn
\   WA N
_       <    ----./  N                                    _ o-
*Fuyang          .,           <                                      .Yuya                  'ZHOUSHAN
0                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yuyaoDigo
////   I  Shooxing      =  Shongyu         .  )                                                               o,  -  'bPuivo
'Zhenhai,          Beilun                         3'
To OhAo.  '                                                                    Ningbo A-; -.
CHINA                                      To iaojog
NINGBO PORT PROJECT
REGIONAL TRANSPORT CONNECTIONS                                                                                                p'-.S/DEPEOPLES
R EP OF KONEA
Roads                                                                                             REP OF
Railroads                     0     I,   20    30   40                                            KOREA
Grand Canol                           KILOmETERS                                                          JAPAN
Rivers and Canals
PortsA.  Ap
Province Boundaries                 -i        
C,    National Capital                    " a.        , 
International Boundaries           : t;:
1200                                                       1210-   '                                                 ;; OKG. U K



