Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            LOAN NUMBER 3006-1 CHA
                (Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      SHANGHAI HARBOR BUREAU
                      Dated February 13, 1989
                    SHANGHAI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  Febraury  13,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and SHANGHAI
HARBOR BUREAU (SHB).
     WHEREAS: (A) by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between People's Republic of  China  (the  Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to  seventy-six million four hundred
thousand dollars ($76,400,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but  only on condition that SHB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the  Borrower  and  SHB,  forty-six  million  four hundred
thousand dollars ($46,400,000)  out  of  the  proceeds of the loan
Page  2
provided for under the Loan  Agreement,  will be made available to
SHB on the terms and  conditions  set  forth in the SHB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SHB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. SHB declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry  out  Part B of the Project with due
diligence and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial  and  port  engineering  and  operating
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Loan  Agreement.
     Section 2.03. SHB shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition,  respectively)  in   respect   of   the  SHB  Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  SHB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the SHB Subsidiary Loan  Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SHB shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving  the  SHB  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  SHB  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and under the  SHB  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  SHB shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part B of the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of its
part of the Loan,  or  the  performance  by SHB of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the SHB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. SHB  shall  review  and  update its master plan
under  Part  B.8  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  terms of
reference agreed with the Bank.
Page  3
     Section 2.07. SHB  shall  implement  the measures included in
the Action Plan under Part  B.9  of the Project in accordance with
terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of SHB
     Section 3.01. SHB shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and port practices  under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. SHB shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
port practices.
     Section 3.03. SHB shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
term "SHB" shall include all enterprises and units which are under
the control of SHB.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  SHB  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  SHB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SHB shall from time to time  take,  or cause to be taken, all such
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the levels
of its tariffs as determined by the Borrower) as shall be required
to produce, for each  of  its  fiscal  years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1988, total revenues equivalent to not less
than the sum of  (i)  its  total  operating expenses, and (ii) the
Page  4
amount by which its financial obligations exceed the provision for
depreciation and any other non-cash operating expenses.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues
               from all sources related to port operations and net
               non-operating income.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating  expenses" means the sum
               of  all  expenses   related   to  port  operations,
               including    maintenance,    administration,    and
               depreciation.
        (iii)  The term "financial obligations" means interest and
               other  charges   on   debt,   repayment   of  loans
               (including  sinking  fund  payments,  if  any), all
               taxes or payments in  lieu of taxes, allocations to
               special  funds  and  other  cash  distributions  of
               surplus, and any  other  cash  outflows (other than
               capital expenditures) related to port operations.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of SHB thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SHB thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this  Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by  hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as  such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving  such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Page  5
For SHB:
Shanghai Harbour Bureau
13 Zhongshan Road (E.1)
Shanghai
China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3966
33023 SHACO CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or  permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SHB, or by 
SHB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by SHB's Director or such other 
person or persons as SHB's Director shall designate in writing, and SHB shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be  an  original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANGHAI HARBOR BUREAU
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
