Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3006-0 CHA
(Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY
Dated February 13, 1989
NINGBO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY (NPA).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-six million four 
hundred thousand dollars ($76,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NPA agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NPA, thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) out of the proceeds of the loan provided 
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NPA on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
A of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and port operating practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. NPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the NPA Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. NPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the NPA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NPA shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NPA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
NPA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of its part of the Loan, or the performance by NPA of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. NPA shall, not later than June 30, 1990, update its master plan 
under Part A.4 of the Project, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank.
Section 2.07. NPA shall carry out the port optimization study under Part A.5 of 
the Project in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NPA
Section 3.01. NPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and port practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals
Page  3
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and port practices.
Section 3.03. NPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the term "NPA" shall 
include all enterprises and units which are under the control of NPA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
NPA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A)certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NPA shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels of its tariffs as determined by the Borrower) as shall be 
required to produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on 
December 31, 1988, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of (i) its total 
operating expenses, and (ii) the amount by which its financial obligations exceed the 
provision of depreciation and any other non-cash operating expenses.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related to 
port operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to port 
operations, including maintenance, 
administration, and depreciation.
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt, 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund 
payments, if any), all taxes or payments 
in lieu of taxes, 
allocations to special funds and other cash distributions of 
surplus, and any other cash outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to 
port operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of NPA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NPA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For NPA:
Ningbo Port Authority
Ningbo, Zhejiang
China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3333
37046 NBP CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NPA, or by NPA 
on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by NPA's Director or such other 
person or persons as NPA's Director shall designate in writing, and NPA shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
NINGBO PORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
