Report No. 1213-TA                                                                  FILE  COPY
Tanzania: Appraisal of the
Morogoro Industrial Complex
March 3, 1977
Industrial Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1        =    Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh) 8.3
Tsh 1        =    US$ 0.119
Tsh 1,000    =    US$ 119.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton      =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 meter           =    3.28 ft.
1 kilometer       =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =    2.47 acres
1 bale            =    187 kg of cotton
ABBREVIATIONS AND MEASURES
EDF       =    European Development Fund
EIB       =    European Investment Bank
FA        =    Fixed Assets
FE        =    Foreign Exchange
IACP      =    Industrial Advisory Center of Pakistan
ICB       =    International Competitive Bidding
LC        = ' Local Currency
NATEX     =    National Textile Industries Corporation
NDC       =    National Development Corporation
NPC       =    National Price Commission
NESPAK    =    National Engineering Services (Pakistan) Ltd.
RCC       =    Reinforced Concrete Construction
SIDO           Small Industries Development Organization
TANESCO   =    Tanzania Electric Supply Co. Ltd.
TEXCO     =    National Textile Corporation
TW        =    Third Window (Special IBRD Loan Facility)
FISCAL YEAR
Government   July 1 - June 30
NDC          January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................  i -iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .1.......................................... 
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ........ . . . ..........................           I
A.    General ...................       ........     .......    ...      I
B.    Project Related Subsectors ........................                3
III.    NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION - THE EXECUTING AGENCY                   6
IV.    THE PROJECT ............................................                 8
A.   General Description ...............................                 8
B.   Detailed Features .................................                 8
C.   Markets and Marketing .....           ........................     14
D.    Project Management ................       ..     ..............    15
V.    COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS AND EXECUTION
SCHEDULE .           ............. 16
A.    Capital Cost - By Project Component ....             ...........    16
B.    Capital Cost - Consolidated Estimate            ...............    17
C.    Financing Plan ..................  .       ..................    17
D.    Allocation of Bank Loans, Procurement and
Disbursements ..................................    19
E.    Project Execution Schedule ........................    21
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................                 21
A.    Industrial Estate ..........................                      21
B.   Shoe Factory .....................................                 23
C.   Leather Goods Factory .............................    23
D.    Consolidated Financial Return, Audits and
Financial Management ...........................    26
E.    Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ....................    26
This report was prepared by C. Goderez, E. Siou and B. Cu Kok of the In-
dustrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ItU contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................   28
A.   Economic  Return  ...................................   28
B.   Other  Benefits   ....................................  28
VIII.   AGREEMfENTS ......................    .......................   29
ANNEXES
1.  The Industrial Sector - Structure and Performance
2.  Regional Breakdown of Cattle Population, 1972
3.  National Development Corporation - Structure and Performance
4.   Industrial Estate - General Description
5.  Water Requirements and Resources
6.   Shoe Factory - General Description
7.   Shoe Factory Prime Contractor - Corporate Profile
8.   Leather Goods Factory - General Description
9.   EIB/EDF Financing Plan - Canvas Mill
10.   Canvas Mill - General Description
11.   Markets and Marketing
12.   NDC Project Management Organization
13.   Industrial Estate - Capital Cost Estimate
14.   Shoe Factory - Capital Cost Estimate
15.   Leather Goods Factory - Capital Cost Estimate
16.   Calculation of Price Escalation Factors
17.   Working Capital Estimates
18.   Disbursement Schedule
19.   Project Implementation Schedule
20.   INDUSTRIAL ESTATE Financial Projections, 1977-1998
Addenda:
1.  Revenue and Operating Cost Statements
2.   Income and Cash Flow Statements
3.   Balance Sheets and Financial Return
21.   Calculation of Price Deflators, 1975-1998
22.   SHOE FACTORY Financial Projections, 1977-1998
it -  Addenda:
" -   1.  Operating Cost Breakdown, 1982
2.   Loan Amortization Schedule
3.   Depreciation Schedule
4.   Operating Cost Projection
" -   5.   Income, Cash Flow and Balance Sheets
6.   Financial Return
" -   7.  Break-Even Chart



-3-
ANNEXES (Continued)
23.   LEATHER GOODS FACTORY Financial Projections, 1977-1998
if - Addenda:
1.   Operating Cost Breakdown, 1982
" -   2.   Loan Amortization Schedule
" -   3.   Depreciation Schedule
4.   Operating Cost Projection
5.   Income, Cash Flow and Balance Sheets
6.   Financial Return
7.   Breakeven Chart
24.   Financial Return Sensitivity Tests
25.   Economic Analysis
26.   Foreign Exchange Impact
27.   Glossary of Technical Terms
MAPS
IBRD 12052
IBRD 12053






TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to establish an integrated factory
complex at Morogoro, a large town located 180 kms west of Dar es Salaam,
which will produce shoes and other leather and canvas products. It consists
of three components: (i) an industrial estate of 65 ha to provide developed
land, power, waste treatment, housing and other common services for the
initial factories of the complex as well as other small- and medium-scale
factories expected to be attracted to Morogoro in the future; (ii) a shoe
factory to produce canvas and leather shoes, primarily for export; and (iii) a
leather goods factory to produce valises, wallets, handbags and garments, also
primarily for export. Financing requirements for the project are estimated
at US$36.2 million equivalent, to which the Bank would contribute two loans
totalling US$23.0 million. The project implementation period is six years,
1977 to 1982, including three years of construction and three years of start-
up and initial operations.
ii.       Not included in the Bank-financed project, but functionally in-
tegral parts of the Morogoro industrial complex, are (i) a tannery which is
already under construction with Bulgarian technical assistance and financial
support, and (ii) a canvas mill to process Tanzanian cotton into canvas and
other coarse count cloth for shoes, tents, tarpaulins, etc., to be financed
by the European Investment Bank and European Development Fund. All three
components of the Bank-financed project, as well as the tannery and the canvas
mill, will be owned by the National Development Corporation (NDC), Tanzania's
largest parastatal holding company, and will be organized and managed as
independent corporations.
iii.      NDC has shareholdings in 22 corporations producing beverages and
tobacco, leather, shoes, packaging materials, rubber tires, chemicals and
metal products. These corporations have earned, on average, about US$10
million equivalent per year in after-tax profits since 1971, and have paid
NDC about US$5 million per year in dividends. The trend of profits and
dividend payments has been rising. NDC has a professional staff of 92
Tanzanian and 17 foreign experts, who have shared considerable experience
over the years in implementing turnkey factory projects and operations.
iv.       Tanzania is one of Africa's largest producers of hides (cattle)
and skins (sheep and goat). Most of the hides and skins are presently ex-
ported in raw form. Only about 20% are processed to semi-finished and
finished leather in the three existing tanneries, of which only one, at
Moshi, can be classed as a large and modern unit. About 40% of the output
of this plant is exported; the rest, with the output of the two smaller
tanneries, is marketed for domestic use. The new tannery under construc-
tion at Morogoro is planned to process annually about 280,000 hides and
900,000 skins and would raise Tanzania's capacity for leather production



- ii-
to about 80/%O of the hides and skins expected to be commercially available in
1980.
v.         Tanzania is the fourth largest producer of cotton in Africa but
processes only about 15% of its annual crop (430,000 bales in 1973) to yarn
and cloth. Low grade cotton, which constitutes about 10% of the crop, is ex-
ported at discounted prices. This would be suitable for the production of
canvas and othier coarse count cloths. At present there is no domestic can-
vas production in Tanzania.
vi.        One fairly modern shoe factory presently produces leather and can-
vas shoes for the internal market. The output is of acceptable quality with-
in Tanzania, but does not meet international standards. The new shoe factory
planned as a project component would produce about 4 million pairs of shoes
to international standards, primarily for export, but it is expected that a
small part of the production will be sold internally.
vii.       The basic objective of the project is to use domestic hides, skins
and cotton, which are presently exported as such, to produce finished pro-
ducts of internationally competitive quality for export markets, and thereby
increase domestic employment and foreign exchange earnings. The total number
of jobs to be generated by the project is estimated at about 1,500, and the
net foreign exchange earnings are projected at US$153 million equivalent (in
constant 1975 terms) for the period, 1979-1998. The entire complex, includ-
ing the tannery and canvas mill, will employ about 3,000 people.
viii.     Total financing required for the project would amount to US$36.2
million equivalent (Tsh 300 million) of which US$23.6 million is the direct
and indirect foreign exchange content. The proposed Bank loans totalling
US$23 million would be made to the Government and consist of: (i) US$11.5
million at 8.5% interest repayable over 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace,
and (ii) US$11.5 million on "third window" terms, i.e., 4.5%. interest with
the first principal repayment due on January 15, 1983 and final maturity on
January 15, 2001. The Bank loans would cover 97.4% of the estimated foreign
exchange requirement.
ix.       Both Bank loans would be on-lent to N4DC at 10% interest, repay-
able over 15 years including 4-1/2 years grace. NDC will provide a suitable
debt:equity structure for each project corporation. Its contribution to the
project will amount to US$13.2 million equivalent to be provided out of
internally generated funds or, if insufficient, funds from the national
development budget.
x.        Adequate technical assistance will be provided through consultants
and contractors for implementation of both the project design and construc-
tion as well as the first three years of operations. For the shoe and
leather goods factories, a qualified Italian consortium has been selected to
provide engineering design, construction supervision, plant commissioning and
management of operations, including international marketing, during three



- iii -
years after start-up. A substantial training component has been built into
the project to ensure eventual takeover of management by Tanzanians. These
measures provide sufficient assurance of efficient project execution and
achievement of planned production and marketing objectives.
xi.       The main element of risk in this project is associated with the
international marketing of shoes in a rapidly growing but highly competitive
world market. Even assuming the production of quality products at competi-
tive cost, there is still a need for a high degree of specialized skills and
adequate marketing channels in various countries, primarily within the OECD
countries. These will be provided by the Italian group, which includes
companies already in the business of marketing internationally shoes manu-
factured in the lesser developed countries.
xii.      The aggregate after-tax financial return is calculated at 15.4%
in constant 1975 terms and the economic return at 26.4%, reflecting the
high level of net foreign exchange earnings and intrinsic national benefits
to be derived from the project. The associated tannery and canvas mill are
expected to yield comparable financial and economic returns.
xiii.     On the basis of the agreements negotiated and summarized in this
report, the project is suitable for two Bank loans totalling US$23.0 million
on the terms indicated in paragraphs viii and ix.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In response to a request from the Government of Tanzania, the Bank
has been advising and assisting the National Development Corporation (NDC)
since 1974 in preparing a multi-plant industrial project at Morogoro, a town
located 180 kms west of Dar es Salaam. NDC is a parastatal organization under
the Mlinistry of Commerce and Industries with equity interests in a number of
industrial companies and will act as the project executing agency and owner
of the Morogoro Industrial Complex.
1.02      Based on the project parameters defined during the early assessment
phase, two feasibility studies were commissioned covering the basic components
of the proposed project: (i) an industrial estate to provide prepared land
and common services for small-, medium- and large-scale factories and (ii) an
integrated 4-factory complex consisting of a tannery, a canvas mill, a shoe
factory and a leather goods factory, which will be the first industries to be
located on the estate. The industrial estate study was prepared by National
Engineering Services (Pakistan) Ltd. (NESPAK) and the factory study by the
Industrial Advisory Center of Pakistan (IACP); both studies were received in
mid-1975.
1.03      NDC negotiated Bulgarian technical and financial assistance for the
tannery and this component of the Morogoro Industrial Complex is already under
construction with start-up scheduled by late-1977. The remaining components
were split between the Bank and the European Economic Community (EEC) on a
parallel finance basis as follows: (i) the industrial estate, shoe factory
and leather goods factory were taken up by the Bank, and (ii) the canvas mill
by the EEC. It is expected that this first joint industrial development
effort by the Bank and EEC will lead to other cooperative projects in the
future.
1.04      An appraisal mission consisting of C. Goderez (Chief), E. Siou
(Engineer) and B. Cu Kok (Economist), all of the Industrial Projects Depart-
ment, was carried out in October 1975. The project in its present form has
emerged after subsequent meetings in Washington, Luxembourg and Dar es Salaam
of Bank, NDC, European Development Fund (EDF) and European Investment Bank
(EIB) personnel to reach agreement on various questions.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      As detailed in Annex 1, industrial output (manufacturing value
added) experienced sustained growth between 1964 and 1973 of 9.5% per annum
in real terms. In reality, however, the growth rate was less significant
than it might appear since the starting base was very small and incremental
A glossary of technical terms commonly used in the leather and textile
industries is given at the end of the report (Annex 27).



-2-
,utput wa-s not corimensurate with the large resources invested.  Furthermore,
since 1974 industrial production has stagnated. The economy is still pre-
dominantly based on agriculture and industry accounts for only 10% of GDP,
as compared to 8% in 1964.
2.02      Certain exogenous factors such as acute balance of payments problems
since 1974, when imports rose sharply without a concommitant increase in
exports (mainly cotton, coffee, sisal and other agricultural products), as
well as an extended drought and power shortages, all contributed to the poor
performance of the industrial sector in the last two years. But the Govern-
ment acknowledges that in addition there are serious structural deficiencies
which must be overcome if industry is to become the leading sector, as
planned, in the short- to medium-term. These deficiencies are discussed
briefly below since they have a direct bearing on the expected performance of
the proposed project.
2.03      Industrial facilities are largely owned by the "parastatal" organi-
zations, 1/ government-owned holding companies operating under the overall
direction of various ministries (Table 1, Annex 1). In 1974, the parastatals
through their operating companies accounted for 75% of value added, 50%
of employment 2/ and 90% of new capital formation in the manufacturing sector.
Generally, the performance of the parastatals has been deficient for a
variety of reasons, including: (i) limited senior and middle management
capabilities; (ii) excessive overhead costs; (iii) price controls based
on manufactured cost plus fixed profit which tend to generate process ineffi-
ciencies together with a lack of competition; (iv) low worker productivity
because of overstaffing and absence of worker or management incentives for
superior performance or disincentives for poor performance; and (v) low
capacity utilization because of weak production planning, poor maintenance
and lack of spare parts, raw and intermediate materials. 3/ Corrective
measures needed range from those within the control of the parastatals (e.g.,
management improvement) to areas requiring Government policy adjustment (e.g.,
pricing). NDC, the largest parastatal and the executing agency for the
Morogoro project, has begun to address these problem areas and, as noted in
para 3.03, there has been encouraging progress.
2.04      The Government's industrial development strategy aims at increased
processing of local raw materials for the national and foreign markets.
Given the current balance of payments crisis (Annex 1) which is likely to
continue for some time, highest priority is given to projects with strong net
foreign exchange earning potential. This is the basic justification for the
1/   There are 11 parastatals which control 72 operating companies in the
manufacturing sector.
2/   In 1972, the total work force in firms employing 10 or more was 59,000.
3/   A more detailed discussion is given in IBRD Report 647-TA, "TANZANIA:
Industrial and Mining Sector Survey", March 31, 1975. Vol. 1.



Morogor, Industrial Complex in which locally available hides, skins and cotton
are to be upgraded into finished leather, canvas and a variety of leather and
canvas finished products for the export market.
B.   Project Related Subsectors
1. Livestock
2.05      Depending on the source, various estimates are available regarding
the present cattle population of Tanzania, ranging from 9 to 15 million.
According to a census made in 1972, the national herd was 9.3 million head
(Annex 2). Since there are indications that there was some undercounting in
the census, however, a reasonable estimate (for 1972) would be nearer the 10
million mark. 1/ An estimate of the cattle, goat and sheep population, their
growth rates and off-take is given below from data supplied by the Livestock
Development Authority:
Tanzania - Herd Population, Growth Rate and Off-Take
Annual              Projected    Estimated Hide
Population   Growth               Population   and Skin Avail-
Livestock      (1972)       Rate    Off-Take    (1982)        ability (1982)
(million)     (%)       (%)       (million)       (million)
Cattle          10.0        2.5        14         12.8             1.8
Goats            4.5         2.5       33          5.8             1.9
Sheep            3.0         2.5       21          3.8             0.8
2.06      The off-take of livestock is composed of official and unofficial
slaughterings, and fallen animals.  MAost of the animals are individually
owned but grazed on communal land according to established tradition. The
greater part of the herd is located in the Mwanza, Shinyanga, Musoma and
Singida regions (Map, IBRD 12052) where cattle are kept by the Sukuma people
as an auxiliary activity to growing cotton and maize. Large concentrations
are also found in the Dodoma, Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions where animals
constitute a major source of income for the Gogo and the Masai tribes.
Extensive livestock-keeping in the south-east and in large areas of the west
is precluded by the presence of the tsetse fly. Although the cattle herd has
increased from about 3 million head in 1924 to the 1972 figure of 10 million
noted above, its productivity is extremely low - a calving rate of about 50%,
1/   In the appraisal report, "Tanzania Dairy Development", Project Report
No. 765-TA, para 2.06, the figure used is 10 million head.



-4-
a calf and adult mortality of about 20% and 10% respectively and an average
liveweight at slaughter of about 250 kgs. Low productivity can be attributed
to inadequate nutrition, high disease incidence and parasite infection,
inadequate herd management, and the poor genetic quality of the native cattle
(small East African shorthorn Zebu).
2.07      The potential for livestock development in Tanzania is enormous,
both through an improvement and intensification of husbandry in existing
cattle areas, and by extending these areas through tsetse control. There are
also areas where the size of herds could be increased substantially if watering
facilities were provided. IDA has already approved two credits for livestock
development in Tanzania, the first (132-TA) in 1968 for US$1.3 million (fully
disbursed) and a second credit (382-TA) in 1973 for US$18.5 million. These
two credits are aimed at creating a growing modern (non-traditional) cattle
ranching and slaughtering sector.
2.08      It is estimated that the animal population in the country will
improve steadily both in quantity as well as quality and the raw hide and
skin requirements for Morogoro - 280,000 hides and 900,000 skins annually -
will be available in the foreseeable future. Because of Morogoro's central
location as a highway and railroad transportation hub, delivery of hides and
skins will not be a problem.
2. Leather and Leather Goods
2.09      Hides and skins are by-products of the meat and dairy industries
and, as such, their availability is directly linked to the growth in produc-
tion of the primary products. The value of hides and skin ranges from 5 to
15% of the value of the animal.
2.10      Currently,  three commercial tanneries are operating in Tanzania
capable of processing some 200,000 hides and 310,000 skins per year or about
20% of local availability (1.0 million hides and 1.5 million skins in 1975).
The balance is exported as wet-salted and dried hides and skins. The largest
is the Tanzania Tanneries Company Ltd. at MIoshi which alone handled 140,000
hides and 300,000 skins in 1974, producing wet-blue, crust and finished
chrome-tanned leather for both the domestic and export markets. Expansion
plans already being implemented at this tannery will double the capacity by
1977. The two smaller tanneries produce vegetable tanned leather of lower
quality for shoe soles and industrial purposes.  Another modern tannery is
under construction at Mwanza with a planned capacity of 360,000 hides per
year. When the tannery at ltorogoro reaches full production at its design
capacity of 280,000 hides and 900,000 skins per year, Tanzania will have a
national capacity to process about 80% of the hides and skins expected to be
commercially available in 1980.
2.11      Although not of the best quality, Tanzania successfully exports
dried and wet-salted hides from all sources and wet-blue, crust and finished



- 5 -
leather from the Moshi tannery. Sales are at world market prices correspond-
ing to the quality of the products and exports are marginally profitable. 1/
Improved leather quality is expected at all three of the existing or planned
modern tanneries at Moshi, Mwanza and Morogoro and there should be no dif-
ficulty in exporting tanned leather at acceptable margins of profit in the
future to a growing world market. Tanzania has not exported finished leather
goods in any significant quantity as yet. Leather and canvas shoes produced
at the Tanzania Shoe Co. Ltd. (formerly BATA), while of acceptable quality
in the domestic market, cannot compete internationally. Recently, leather
work gloves (from scrap leather) have begun to be exported and small quanti-
ties of leather jackets and handbags have achieved limited acceptance
among tourists. Internationally, there is a large and growing demand for
quality leather goods and the entire production of these items at Morogoro
should be easily marketable provided they are competitive in price and style
and suitable marketing channels are established.
3. Cotton and Textiles
2.12      Tanzania is the fourth largest cotton producer in Africa with
an output of 430,000 bales in 1973, up from 160,000 bales in 1958. Only
about 15%, or 63,000 bales, of the cotton crop is processed to yarn and woven
cloth domestically; the balance is exported as baled cotton. The textile
industry, virtually non-existent 10 years ago, now ranks first in the manu-
facturing sector accounting for about 25% of employment, 13% of value added
and 11% of gross output for the sector as a whole. TEXCO, a government
parastatal, holds shares in and oversees the operations of the 7 existing
textile mills in Tanzania. In 1975, the Bank extended a US$15 million loan to
one of TEXCO's mills at Mwanza to finance expansion of annual capacity from 23
to 43 million meters of finished fabrics; implementation of the project is
proceeding well within the original cost and time estimates.
2.13      The quality of Tanzanian cotton is above average, falling into the
medium to long category (fiber length of 1-1/32" to 1-3/32") and is suitable
for spinning yarn up to 50 counts. Ninety percent of the crop is the so-called
AR grade, which is comparable to U.S. Memphis SM 1-1/16", selling on the world
market at about a 10% premium over the price of 1" staple. Ten percent, or
43,000 bales, is the BR grade consisting of shorter fiber lengths, overripe,
off-color and weaker fibers with a trash content of 12% (vs. 7% for AR cotton).
BR cotton sells at a discount of 25-35% below the AR prices.
1/   Part of the problem is the overvalued currency.  In October 1975, the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 15% and the exchange rate rose from
Tsh 7.10/US$1 to Tsh 8.16/US$1. As a consequence, profit margins on
leather and other exports increased in 1976 but even at the higher ex-
change rate, the Tanzanian shilling still appears to be overvalued. For
economic analysis purposes, the Bank assumes the real value of the
shilling to be Tsh 11/US$1.



- 6 -
2.14      Currently, of the 63,000 bales of cotton processed in Tanzania
annually, 60,000 are AR and 3,000 BR grade. All of the remaining 40,000 bales
of BR cotton are exported at discounted prices. Canvas is made from BR cot-
ton, but there is yet no indigenous canvas production (the 3,000 bales of
BR cotton are consumed internally in producing other types of coarse cloth
such as duck and drill). The Mlorogoro Canvas Mill will consume 23,000 bales
of BR cotton annually, about 57% of the current exportable surplus, in pro-
ducing canvas of various types for shoes, tarpaulins, tents, sails, knapsacks,
etc. Canvas and made-up canvas goods are commodities traded internationally
and with good long-range growth prospects. Given the existing production and
consumption pattern for BR cotton noted above, it is self-evident that up-
grading the raw material to higher levels of value added as proposed in the
i>forogoro project is sound policy for Tanzania.
III. NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (NDC) - THE EXECUTING AGENCY
3.01      The National Development Corporation, headquartered in Dar es
Salaam, is the largest parastatal holding company and Tanzania's principal
instrument for industrial investment since its inception in 1964. As detailed
in Annex 3, it is governed by a 9-man Board of Directors including the General
Manager. IBC's 6 operating departments are staffed by 109 profesionals of
which 17 are foreign experts serving in various managerial and technical
capacities; office staff totals 134.
3.02      NDC holds shares in 22 companies of which 17 are classified as
subsidiaries (over 50%l IDC shareholding) and 5 are associate companies (50%
or less NDC shareholding). The 22 companies operate in the following fields:
metal working (8); tobacco and beverages (4); printing and publishing (4);
chemicals and allied products (3); and leather tanning and processing (3);
together they employ about 9,000 people. Operations of the NDC Group compan-
ies have been profitable every year since 1968 on a consolidated basis,
although some companies had been experiencing losses. In 1974, for the
first time, each of the companies made after-tax profits (Table 2, Annex 3).
Similar results were achieved in 1975 and in 1976. 1/ The overall capitali-
zation of the TBC Group is sound with a debt:equity ratio of 35:65 though a
somewhat tight liquidity. Consolidated sales and profits of NDC's Group
Companies in recent years are summarized below:
1/   With the exception of the Tanzania Fertilizer Co.; fertilizer prices
are controlled as a matter of national policy and profitability is
low or negative as a result.



- 7 -
NDC Group Companies - Sales and Profits, 1971-1976
(Tsh millions)
/1
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975   1976
Net Sales               1,062  1,427   1,734   1,083   1,340   1,300
Profit (after-tax)        114    144       103      83       90     104
Profit as % of Sales    10.7   10.1       5.9      7.7      6.7     3.0
/1   Including a number of profitable mining and textile operations which
have been transferred to other parastatals, resulting in the sharp
drop in revenue in 1974.
3.03      Operational results of the Group Companies can be considered
modestly satisfactory. In 1974/75, NfDC instituted a comprehensive program
of in-plant reorganization and efficiency studies to correct known problems
in management, maintenance, inventory control, excess receivables, unbalanced
process lines, worker skills and incentives. Initial results are promising.
Vor example, in 1975 receivables were reduced in aggregate by Tsh 25 million,
corresponding to a reduction from 41 days of net sales to 35 days. The in-
crease in profitability from 6.7% in 1975 to 8.0% in 1976 may be partly attrib-
utable to the efficiency measures undertaken and performance in future years
can reasonably be expected to improve progressively.
3.04      Central office management and staff of NDC have developed substan-
tial capabilities in the textile and leather sectors. Three of the Group
Companies - Tanzania Hides and Skins, Tanzania Tanneries and Tanzania Shoe
Co. - are the country's major processors of hides and skins from the raw
state to finished products. Until 1973/74, N1C also managed the country's
textile firms. These have since been transferred to another specialized
parastatal, TEXCO, but NDC's experience in the textile sector provides a
solid foundation for planning and implementing the canvas mill component of
the llorogoro Complex.
3.05      To place the project in perspective, when completed it will add
3 operating companies to NDC's existing portfolio of 22. Project aggregate
revenue in 1982, when full operating capacity is scheduled, will be about
US$33.2 million compared to 1975 revenue for 1MC's existing 22 Group Com-
panies of US$189 million and 1982 estimated revenue of US$450 million to
500 million for 27 Group Companies, including the tannery and canvas mill
(all in current terms). These figures indicate that the I4orogoro project,
while large, should not per se place an extraordinary burden on NDC's grow-
ing financial and management capabilities.
3.06      NDC is therefore considered to have the basic management organi-
zation and financial and functional capabilities to act successfully as the



- 8 -
executing agency for the project. Specialized technical assistance will be
needed, however, and has been incorporated into the project design as
detailed in the next chapter.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project, to be implemented over a 6-year period from 1977 to
1982, consists of three components:
Component                        Description
1     Industrial Estate - 65 ha of developed land complete
with roads, surface drainage canals, power, water, sewage
disposal, telecommunications, housing and other facilities
for small- and medium-scale industries. The 2 factories
to be constructed initially as project components are:
2     Shoe Factory - to produce 2 million pairs of leather
shoes and 2 million pairs of canvas shoes per year;
3     Leather Goods Factory - to fabricate handbags, suit-
cases, jackets and various minor items from 183,000 m
of finished leather per year.
The 3 project components together with the tannery, already under construc-
tion on the estate 1/, and the canvas mill 2/, constitute a vertically inte-
grated industrial complex fully owned by NDC. Each operating unit will be
an independent company. The chart (next page) graphically illustrates the
flow of materials and other related data of the interlinked factory
complex.
B.   Detailed Features
1.   Component 1 - Industrial Estate
4.02      For the industrial estate, described in greater detail in Annex 4,
an area of 204 ha has been reserved 4 kms north of Morogoro, a large town of
1/   The tannery was designed and is being built with Bulgarian technical
assistance and finance; construction started in September 1975.
2/   To be financed by FIB and EDF.



- a -
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
MATERIALS FLOW CHART
HIDES                      SKINS                                       COTTON
(280,000 Pieces)           (900,000 Pieces)                               (4,332 M.T.)
TANNERY                                                  CANVAS MILL
300 Days/Year                                              300 Days/Year
1 Shift/Day                                               3 Shifts/Day
Employment: 334                                            Employment: 921
Producing                                                  Producing
Finished Leather                                               Canvas
(m2000)                                                    (iM2 000)
For Shoes
From Hides:          585                                     (Laminated):     2,800
As Dyed Canvas:  2,062
As Waterproof
From Skins:          450                                     Canvas:          2,800
Total:    1,035                                     Total:          7,662
1,035,000m2                                                7,662,000m2
To Market   4       M                        3                                                    To Market
183,000m 2                                                  558,000rn2
I             I                           
LEATHER GOODS                                                    SHOE
FACTORY                                                    FACTORY
300 Days/Year                                              300 Days/Year
1 Shift/Day                                                        Shift/Day
Leather Section:    1
Employment: 113                                           Canvas Section:      2
Other Section       1
Producing                                         Employment: 1073
Units                                          Producing
Handbags:         18,000                                            Shoes:
Suitcases:        10,000                                                     Pairs
Belts:            14,000                                  Leather:         2 Million
Jackets:          40,000                                  Canvas:          2 Million
Wallets:         32,000
To Market                                                  To Market
World Bank-15843



- 10 -
40,000 population situated some 180 kms west of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's
capital and major port. The site is on the main hardtop road connecting
lhorogoro and Dodoma and is 2 kms from the intersection with the Tan-Zam
Highway. Norogoro also lies on the Central Railway line connecting Dar es
Salaam with the main centers in the north and west of the country. Because of
its excellent rail and highway connections, and its central location, Morogoro
is particularly well suited for the proposed complex in terms of raw material
and finished goods transport requirements. Topography, terrain and climate
are suitable for factory construction and the operations planned. Sufficient
labor will be available from tiorogoro and nearby rural areas.
4.03      The site plan (Annex 4, Addendum 1), covering the development of
65 ha required for the project shows the internal road network and the
location of the tannery, canvas mill, shoe factory, standard factory buildings
(one of which will house the leather goods factory), utilities and a housing
2
zone for about 35 residential units totalling approximately 5,250 m .  Four
standard factory buildings are planned, measuring 120 m x 12 m each, or
5,760 m   total covered space with clear height under beams of 4 m.  The
smallest module will be 240 m  and small- to medium-scale factories will be
able to rent one or more modules as needed.  About 16% or 240 m  of the first
building will be occupied by the administrative offices and maintenance shops
of the estate corporation; the balance will be occupied by the leather goods
factory. The second building will be built in anticipation of the demand for
factory space of small- and medium-scale industries expected to be established
in the future, some of which will be ancillary to the major project factories.
Initially, only two of the buildings will be constructed until the demand for
additional standard factory space becomes more certain and the decision to
proceed with the third and fourth building will be taken in consultation with
the Bank.
4.04      The expected land use pattern of the estate is given below:
Industrial Estate - Land Use Pattern (Phase I)
Industrial Plots for:                ha         _
Tannery                           8.0         12.3
Canvas Mill                       7.5         11.5
Shoe Factory                      5.5          8.5
Standard Factory Buildings        2.0          3.1
Unallocated /1                   15.0         23.1
38.0        58.5
Residential Area                     5.0           7.7
Admin. Building                       2.0          3.1
Roads, Utilities, Landscaping       20.0         30.7
Total                     65.0       100.0
/1   15 ha of developed land will be ready for occupancy by non-project indus-
tries in 1979; specific factories are not yet identified.



- 11 -
4.05      The Morogoro Industrial Complex, at3full capacity, is expected io
have an average daily water demand of 2,800 m  and a peak load of 4,000 m
(Annex 5). 1/ Initially, water will be drawn from the nearby Ngerengere
River but this source has limited capacity and during the dry season each
year operations would have to be curtailed or shut down. A prolonged period
of drought, as has occurred twice in recent years, would be a major disaster
for the complex. What appeared to be a serious impediment to establishing
the Morogoro Complex at the time of field appraisal, however, is being re-
solved by means of a water supply project approved for a Bank loan of US$15
million in December 1976. 2/ This project, to be implemented between Jrne 1977
and July 1979, will expand Morogoro's peak water production by 25,400 m /day
through the construction of a dam at Mindu, 5 kms from Morogoro, and water
treatment facilities, pumping stations and a pipeline to Morogoro. The capa-
city of the system is adequate to meet all demands, including the industrial
complex, for the foreseeable future. Because of the importance of an assured
supply of water, agreement has been reached that a condition for major disburse-
ments 3/ will be that firm financing arrangements acceptable to the Bank have
been made for the Mindu dam and pipeline and that all conditions for initial
disbursements be fulfilled. This condition has been met with the effectiveness
of the Bank-financed urban water supply project on March 2, 1977.
4.06      The feasibility study proposed a 57 ha evaporation/oxidation pond
as the simplest practical method of liquid waste disposal. However, it has
been agreed that this will be studied further by qualified consultants to
determine if ecological considerations dictate a more sophisticated and effi-
cient system and the required study will be part of the TOR for the design
and construction of the industrial estate. Assuming that a higher technology
system may be needed, the project capital cost estimates include a provision
of US$800,000 for this purpose.
4.07      Operation of the industrial estate will be the responsibility of
a resident Estate General Manager and an Engineer, the latter functioning
as Assistant General Manager and Maintenance Supervisor. Staff will con-
sist of no more than 15 (Annex 4, Addendum 2). It has been agreed that by
December 1978 an estate corporation will be established and an experienced
industrial estate manager will be recruited in consultation with the Bank for
an initial period of 2 years. He will be responsible for operation and the
training of a Tanzanian assistant who will take over as General Manager on
completion of the 2-year technical assistance contract. The estate will
1/   Corresponds to consumption when the 4 starting factories are at full
production circa 1982; future expansion of the estate would increase
water consumption proportionally.
2/   For details, reference is invited to the Grey Cover Appraisal Report
No. 1199-TA "Tanzania: Appraisal of Urban Water Supply Project",
November 30, 1976.
3/   Refers to civil works and equipment but not to engineering expenditures.



- 12 -
function as an independent corporation and "profit center" in all dealings
with factories already located within its boundaries or planning to do so.
Termination or extension of the General Manager's contract will be decided
in consultation with the Bank.  A short list of 6 qualified consulting organi-
zations was prepared in consultation with the Bank, and their competitive
proposals for detailed engineering and supervision of construction are being
evaluated (February 1977). The contract is expected to be signed in the
second quarter of calendar 1977.
2.   Component 2 - Shoe Factory
4.08      The factory has been laid out and equipment specified (Annex 6,
Addenda 1 and 2) for an annual production of 2 million pairs of leather and
2 million pairs of canvas shoes. IACP included a cardboard box-making depart-
ment in the factory plan, but the need for this investment, although included
in the cost estimate as a safety factor, will be examined further during the
detailed design phase. 1/
4.09      The IACP feasibility study was reviewed by a firm of experts prior
to the field appraisal (Roit Corp. of the U.S.A.), who concluded that the
factory layout and bill of equipment were suitable for the product mix and
proposed production levels. Equipment cost estimates were also found to be
realistic. It was recommended, however, that if possible and depending on
the recommendations of the contractor responsible for the international mar-
keting, the initial product mix be concentrated in one or two basic types
of leather shoes and similarly for canvas shoes rather than the ten varieties
of shoes assumed in the feasibility study. A further recommendation was to
substitute manual in-factory movement of goods using simple locally-produced
carts instead of the automated conveyor systems specified by IACP. Both
recommendations will be considered in finalizing the marketing plan and plant
design. It is also likely that equipment more suitable for hand-made rather
than machine-made canvas shoes will be procured since international demand
is strongly biased towards the former. As a result, labor intensity is
likely to be higher than assumed by IACP and capital investment will decrease
to some extent.
4.10       It has been agreed that NDC shall employ, during a period of
at least six years, a qualified firm or firms to provide needed technical
assistance during construction and initial operations. In consultation
with the Bank, two technical assistance contracts have been negotiated by
NDC with an Italian consortium headed by Italmacchine Plants S.p.A. of
Milan; detailed information on this group of companies is given in Annex 7.
The first contract, signed in February 1977 after review and approval by
the Bank, covers the provision of engineering design, construction super-
vision and training services including commissioning of the factory. The
second contract covering factory management and international marketing
services for a period of 3 years after factory start-up, is in draft form
and has been submitted to the Bank for review and approval. After approval
by the Bank, the contract will be submitted to the Economic Committee of
the Cabinet whose approval is required for all management contracts signed
1/   NDC owns a large, well-equipped box-making plant in Dar es Salaam -
Kibo Paper Industries Ltd. - which could expand its production to
meet the needs of the Morogoro shoe factory.



- 13 -
by parastatals, a procedure that normally takes 6 to 12 months. It has been
agreed that extension or termination of this contract will be decided in
consultation with the Bank. It was further agreed that a corporation will be
established by December 1978 to take charge of the shoe factory.
4.11      At full capacity, staff requirements will be:  (i) general manage-
ment and office staff, 60; (ii) production management, 5: (iii) factory staff,
about 1,000. Of the total, no more than 10 are expected to be expatriate
management and technical personnel; most middle management, foremen and key
skilled workers are likely to be drawn from the existing shoe factory in Dar
es Salaam with supplemental training to be provided under the technical assist-
ance contracts. The 10 expatriates will serve for 3 years and a few may be
continued for an additional 3-year period under the possible contract extension
noted in para 4.10.
3.   Component 3 - Leather Goods Factory
4.12      As discussed in detail in Annex 8, this factory will be housed in
one of the standard factory buildings. It will consist of a number of working
areas in which skilled craftsmen using small powered and hand tools produce
various types of leather goods. Planned annual production at full capacity,
consuming 183,000 m of finished leather, will be: (i) handbags, 18,000;
(ii) suitcases, 10,000; (iii) wallets, 32,000; (iv) leather belts, 14,000;
(v) leather jackets, 40,000. In addition to the basic raw material (leather
from the 1iorogoro tannery), imported lining material, thread, glue, locks and
other assorted hardware will be needed. These imports, amounting to about
15% of total raw material cost, may eventually be replaced to some extent by
domestic production in small-scale ancillary shops.
4.13      Staff will total 116, including 3 foreign experts - a leather tech-
,nologist, a modellor (to prepare samples and patterns) and a quality inspector.
hanagement and marketing services will be provided by the shoe factory prime
contractor. As Tanzanians gain the necessary skills, the foreign experts
would be phased out. But, as mentioned in the section on Ilarkets and Mlar-
keting, commercial linkages to be established with foreign marketing agencies
will ensure that up-to-date designs will be continually available to keep
the industry "fashion-competitive" even after the foreign experts leave. It
has been agreed that a corporation will be established by December 1978 to
take charge of the leather goods factory.
4.   Canvas Mill
4.14      This factory, although not part of the Bank-financed project, is
an integral part of the MIorogoro Industrial Complex and was appraised by
the field mission in 1975 along with the 3 project components. Subsequently,
it was agreed that EIB/EDF would undertake the financing of the canvas mill.
These institutions conducted an independent appraisal in October 1976 and
have scheduled final approval of a combined loan and grant package (Annex 9)
by mid-1977.



- 14 -
4.15      The Bank appraisal, detailed in Annex 10, indicates the technical,
financial aVd economic viability of the canvas mill. It will produce
7,662,000 m 2of canvas cloth to various specifications of which about 7%
or 558,000 m will be delivered to the shoe factory and the balance sold
for other domestic uses or exported. A leading Netherlands manufacturer of
canvas has reassessed the original feasibility study and will be contracted
to provide engineering design, construction supervision, mill management
and marketing services similar to the technical assistance to be provided by
the Italian group to the shoe factory. While the canvas to be produced at
Morogoro is not essential to the success of the shoe factory (canvas can
be imported), the development of the canvas mill in parallel with the Bank
project would generate numerous benefits enhancing the overall performance of
the industrial complex. For that reason, the Bank and EIB/EDF projects will
continue to be closely coordinated through: (i) direct communication between
Bank and EIB project staffs and (ii) central supervision by NDC's project
management organization.
C.   Markets and Marketing
4.16      The project is strongly export oriented as shown in the table
below:
Projected Sales of Morogoro Complex, 1982 /1
Gross            Direct            F.E.
Product     Annual Production  Product Value /2    Export Sales          Earnings
(US$ million)           (%)        (US$ million)
Shoes
Leather    1.8 million pairs)          29.8                80            23.9
)
Canvas      1.8 million pairs)
Leather
Goods       102,600 pieces              3.4                80             2.7
Total               33.2                 80            26.6
/1   1982 is first full year of production at 90% of design capacity.
/2   In current terms.
4.17      It is apparent that the success of the project as a generator of
foreign exchange depends, primarily, on the success of the international shoe
marketing strategy and to a lesser extent on the export sales of surplus
leather and leather goods. Annex 11, which discusses at length the export
prospects for all of Morogoro's products, indicates that the international
demand for finished leather is so large that the modest increments to be
offered by Morogoro starting in 1980 should be easily marketable given com-
petitive quality and prices. Tanzania already has established channels for
exporting leather from the Moshi tannery to Europe, the Far East and the USA
and every indication is that the exportable surplus from Morogoro can be



- 15 -
absorbed easily, even by the same customers. The paragraphs following,
therefore, address the key question of export marketing of shoes.
4.18      The world market for shoes of all types was estimated by FAO at
4,000 million pairs in 1973, of which the OECD (developed) countries accounted
for 1,700 million. Among the OECD countries, the USA alone consumes about
800 million pairs annually. Some 45% of the OECD market demand - and the
proportion is increasing - is currently imported from low or moderate labor
cost countries such as Korea, Taiwan, Hongkong, Brazil, Spain, Italy and the
Philippines. As shown in Annex 11, world demand is growing at a rate of 2%
p.a. while imports into the developed countries are growing at 3% p.a.  In
1980, when ilorogoro shoes will become available for export, the OECD market
will be about 2,000 million pairs, of which 1,000 million or 50% are expected
to be imported. The annual incremental demand for imported shoes in the dev-
eloped countries will then be of the order of 25-30 million pairs. While
this represents the major potential export market for Morogoro shoes, signif-
icant sales are also expected to be developed in other African countries and
the Near East. The maximum planned production of 2 million pairs each of
leather and canvas shoes at Morogoro will represent only 0.4% of the fore-
casted imports of OECD countries alone in 1982 or about 14% of the annual
incremental demand at that time.
4.19      Italy, Spain and, for higher priced leather shoes, England and
France have been the traditional net exporters of shoes. Since the 1950's,
a number of low-labor-cost countries - Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil,
and Hongkong - have become major suppliers of the world market. Other
countries, including China, the Philippines, Malaysia, Greece, 1Mexico, Iran,
Pakistan and India are assuming increasing importance as exporters of shoes,
both leather and canvas. The proliferation of new country sources of shoes
in recent years strongly supports the assessment that, given Tanzania's com-
parative advantages - basically, the availability of indigenous cotton and
leather and relatively low labor costs - there are no inherent reasons to
prevent tiorogoro from joining the expanding list of suppliers to the large
and growing world market. Price and quality must, of course, be competitive.
This was the conclusion of the IACP feasibility study as well as a special
study conducted by an English firm in 1975. 1/
4.20      More importantly, in support of this assessment, two leading world
distributors of shoes were actively competing for the marketing contract.
After joint evaluation of both proposals, the Italian group was selected and
the proven marketing capabilities of this group will go a long way to ensure
the commercial viability of the project.
D.   Project Management
4.21      Project implementation comprises 3 years of construction followed
by a 3-year start-up period to reach full capacity production. Central man-
agement responsibility will reside in NDC's Research and Development Depart-
ment in Dar es Salaam headquarters which has carried out similar projects
1/   "Export Miarkets for Tanzania Leather and Leather Products", Atkins
Planning (UK), November 1975.



- 16 -
in the past. A Project Manager, Mr. A. Ng'amilo, has been appointed in con-
sultation with the Bank; his qualifications are given in Annex 12.
Mr. Ng'amilo will head the project management staff and report directly to
the head of the R. & D. Department of NDC as shown in the chart attached to
Annex 12. The duties of the project management staff will be inter alia:
(i) preparation of a project execution plan based on modern strategic path
concepts; (ii) screening, evaluation and selection of consultants and con-
tractors; (iii) coordination and monitoring of the work programs of con-
sultants and contractors; (iv) preparation of periodic progress reports as
required by NDC and the Bank; (v) review and approval of billing submitted by
consultants and contractors. The Project Manager and staff will be provided
with office and other facilities (e.g., vehicles) required to fulfill their
duties and will be assisted as appropriate by other NDC corporate staff who
will provide necessary engineering, legal, accounting, recruitment and train-
ing services.
4.22      Field management personnel, based in Morogoro, will consist of:
(i) a Supervising Engineer and (ii) a Works Accountant, both of whom will
report to the Project Manager. Their duties will be: (i) as owner's
representatives, general on-site liaison with consultants and construction
contractors, and (ii) checking and processing of workdone certificates.
4.23      On the completion of construction, start-up and operation of each
project component will become the responsibility of the Operations Depart-
ment of NDC. Planning for all management and staff requirements will take
place during construction, and recruitment of key operating personnel for
each factory is scheduled to be completed no later than 6 months before the
planned date of start-up, in close collaboration with the contractors res-
ponsible for start-up, training and initial operations.
V.  COSTS ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS AND EXECUTION SCHEDULE
A.   Capital Cost - By Project Component
5.01      Capital cost estimates summarized in para 5.03 from Annexes 13, 14
and 15 are realistic for the following reasons: (i) the feasibility studies
were well prepared in this respect; (ii) for the industrial estate component,
the Bank has up-to-date cost data on several comparable projects in other
countries; and (iii) for the shoe factory, the project engineering contractor
reviewed the design and cost estimate in November/December 1976 and com-
municated its revised cost estimate to NDC and the Bank in January 1977;
this estimate has been incorporated into the contract as the basis for cal-
culating fees. For all civil works, the Bank appraisal mission in October
1975 checked actual costs being incurred at that time in civil works of
similar nature under execution and, in addition, has been receiving periodic
reports since on actual escalation taking place in Tanzania. (Depending on
the type of construction, by end-1976 costs had escalated by 40 to 100% above
the estimates in the feasibility study).



- 17 -
5.02      For the reasons given above, physical contingencies of 10% on
civil works and 5% on equipment, respectively, are considered safe upper
limits. Price escalation was calculated according to the methodology outlined
in Annex 16 and reflects the Bank's estimate of annual rates of inflation
to 1979. Since Tanzania's price index appears to follow the international
trend closely, the same escalation factors were applied to both LC and FE
expenditures. Working capital was estimated as shown in Annex 17.
B.   Capital Cost - Consolidated Estimate
5.03       The table below summarizes the capital cost estimates for the proj-
ect by major expenditure category and then by project component:
Capital Cost - Consolidated Project /1
(millions)
Tsh                         US$
Expenditure Category             LC     FE      Total       LC      FE /2  Total   %
Equipment                       3.8    44.6    48.4          .5      5.4    5.8   36.3
Civil Works                    28.7    32.1    60.8        3.4       3.9    7.3   45.6
Cons. & Eng. Serv.              3.4    17.2    20.5          .4      2.1    2.5   15.6
Training                         .6      2.5     3.2         .1       .3      .4    2.5
Base Cost Estimate       36.5    96.4   132.9         4.4      11.7   16.0  100.0
Contingencies                  17.2    43.5    60.7        2.1       5.2    7.3   45.6
Installed Cost           53.7   139.9   193.6         6.5      16.9   23.3  145.6
Net Working Capital            42.9    30.5    73.4        5.2       3.7    8.8   55.0
Interest during
Construction /3              8.4    25.4    33.8         1.0       3.1    4.1   25.6
Total Financing         105.1   195.8   300.9        12.6      23.6   36.2  226.2
Project Component
1. Industrial Estate          31.1    47.8    78.9         3.7       5.8    9.5   26.2
2. Shoe Factory                69.2   144.3   213.5        8.3      17.4   25.7   71.0
3. Leather Goods Factory        4.8     3.7      8.5         .6       .4    1.0    2.8
Total Financing         105.1   195.8   300.9        12.6      23.6   36.2  100.0
/1   Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.
/2   The estimated indirect foreign exchange component is US$2.0 million.
/3   Interest during construction consists of:  8.5% p.a. capitalized interest,
plus 0.75% p.a. commitment fee on the undisbursed portion of the loan,
and 1.5% p.a. guarantee fee paid by NDC to Government.
C.   Financing Plan
5.04       The proposed financing plan is given below, first for each project
component and then on a consolidated basis:



- 18 -
Financing Plan /1
By Project Component
----Tsh Millions----      ----US$ Millions----
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE              LC       FE    Total      LC       FE     Total   %
Debt (IBRD)                      -     45.7   45.7       -       5.5       5.5   57.9
Equity (NDC)                   30.7     2.5   33.2       3.7      .3       4.0   42.1
Total Finance            30.7    48.2   78.9        3.7    5.8       9.5  100.0
SHOE FACTORY
Debt (IBRD)                      -    127.8  127.8         -    15.4      15.4   59.9
Equity (NDC)                   68.9    16.6   85.5       8.3    2.0       10.3   40.1
Total Finance            68.9   144.4  213.3        8.3   17.4      25.7  100.0
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY
Debt (IBRD)                      -      5.0    5.0        -       .6        .6   60.0
Equity (NDC)                    3.3      -      3.3       .4      -         .4   40.0
Total Finance             3.3      5.0    8.3        .4      .6      1.0  100.0
Consolidated
Debt (NDC)
Financed by:
IBRD                       -    178.5  178.5         -    21.5      21.5
Total Debt                -    178.5  178.5         -    21.5      21.5   59.4
Equity (NDC)
Financed by:
IBRD                       -      12.5   12.5        -      1.5      1.5    4.1
NDC (Own Gen.)          102.9      6.6  109.5      12.4      .8     13.2   36.5
Total Equity            102.9    19.1  122.0       12.4    2.3      14.7   40.6
Total Finance           102.9   197.6  300.5       12.4   23.8      36.2  100.0
/1   Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.  See table,
para 5.05, for details of Bank three-step flow of funds.
5.05      Two Bank loans to the Government totalling US$23.0 million are
proposed consisting of: (i) US$11.5 million at 8.5% interest repayable over
20 years including 4-1/2 years grace, and (ii) US$11.5 million on "third
window" (TW) terms, i.e., 4.5% interest, with the first principal repayment
due on January 15, 1983 and final maturity on January 15, 2001. In turn,
the Government will on-lend the proceeds of the loans to NDC at 10% interest
repayable over 15 years including 4-1/2 years grace. NDC will then allocate
the funds to the industrial estate, shoe factory and leather goods factory



- 19 -
mainly as debt (US$21.5 million) on the same terms as those governing its own
payback to the Government and the balance (US$1.5 million) as equity. The
4-1/2 year grace period corresponds to the 3-year construction period plus
1-1/2 years of operations during which the project should achieve sufficient
cash flow to cover the debt service without difficulty. 1/ Interest will be
capitalized during the 3-year construction period. The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by the project companies. The flow of funds from the Bank to the
project companies, through the Government and NDC, may be tabulated as follows:
Three-Step Flow of Bank Funds to Project Companies
US$ Millions
Step   Source of Funds          Beneficiary            Debt   Equity      Note
1    IBRD                Govt. of Tanzania           23.0     -         /a
2    Govt. of Tanzania         NDC                   23.0     -         /b
3    NDC                  (Ind. Est. Corp.            5.5    1.0        /c
(Shoe Factory              15.4    0.5        /c
(Leather Goods Factory    0.6       -         /c
/a   Terms - 50% of loan @ 8.5% interest, 20 years including 4-1/2 years
grace; 50% of loan @ 4.5% interest, with first repayment due
on January 15, 1983 and final maturity on January 15, 2001.
/b     "   - 10% interest, 15 years including 4-1/2 years grace.
/c     "   - Same terms as in /b on loan portion.
5.06      Additional equity to be provided by NDC amounts to US$13.2 million
equivalent to be invested in the project companies in the amounts shown
in the financing plan (para 5.04). These funds will be derived from NDC's
cumulative earned surpluses or, if such funds prove to be inadequate, the
national development budget. As indicated in Annex 3, cumulative earned
surpluses are expected to total some US$36 million equivalent over the project
execution period. It has been agreed that the Government will promptly cover,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, any shortfall in NDC's
funding capacity to carry the project through to completion.
D.   Allocation of Bank Loans, Procurement and Disbursements
5.07      The Bank loans totalling US$23.0 million will cover 97.4% of the
estimated direct and indirect FE content of the project as shown below:
1/   The first repayment of principal will actually occur 2 years after
plant start-up, forecasted for January 1980.



- 20 -
Allocation of Bank Loans - Consolidated Project
(US$ millions)
Total           FE         Bank       Ratio
Expenditures   Content   Allocation  Bank/FE
(%)
Equipment                               8.4           7.7         7.7        100
Civil Works                            10.7           5.7         5.3         93
Cons. & Eng. Serv.                      3.6           3.0         3.0        100
Training                                0.6           0.4         0.4        100
Working Capital                         8.8           3.7         2.0         54
Interest during Construction            4.1           3.1         3.1        100
Unallocated                              -             -          1.5         -
Total                       36.2          23.6        23.0         97.4
5.08      All procurement of goods and services financed by the Bank will be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. The shoe factory and leather
goods factory technical assistance group was selected after NDC's evaluation
of competitive proposals. The industrial estate engineering design contract
was internationally tendered to a short list of 6 firms in December 1976; the
list had been reviewed and accepted by the Bank. Equipment and civil works
of above US$100,000 equivalent will be bid internationally. Local manufac-
tures will be granted a preference of either 15% or the actual tariff on
equivalent imported goods, whichever is lower, and local contractors a pre-
ference margin of 7-1/2%. Off-the-shelf purchase of imported items will be
assumed to have 85% FE content for purposes of Bank disbursement. Civil works
contracts and procurement of equipment and materials in amounts of up to
US$100,000 equivalent will not require formal international tenders but com-
petitive offers from prequalified lists of suppliers will be obtained interna-
tionally in accordance with the Borrower's usual procedures and evaluated as
to suitability, delivery and price in awarding such purchase contracts.
Regarding the shoe factory, the project engineering contractor has close
linkages with one or two Italian manufacturers of shoe production machinery.
In order to ensure that international tendering will be equitable to all
appropriate sources of such equipment, specifications will be written in
generic form, i.e., without bias to any specific trademark, and compliance
will be closely monitored by both NDC, through its Project Manager, and the
Bank (documents will be released for tender only after review and approval by
the Bank). The expected disbursement schedule is given in Annex 18.
5.09      The bulk of the technical assistance to be procured will be in the
form of contracts with corporate groups who will provide engineering, cons-
truction supervision, training, plant management and marketing services.
Unit consultant costs have been estimated as follows: (i) for technicians,
US$35,000 - 45,000/man year, and (ii) for management personnel, US$55,000 -
65,000/man year. These estimates refer only to the FE cost and include
direct salary plus corporate overhead and profit.



- 21 -
E.   Project Execution Schedule
5.10      The projected time schedule for project implementation is given in
the bar chart, Annex 19, covering the 6-year period from early-1977 to end-
1982. It is important that the contractor executing the shoe factory start
work before loan approval since any delays in the early design, engineering
and procurement phases would cause serious slippage in the planned 3-year
construction schedule. Therefore, retroactive finance of up to US$150,000
under the Bank loan is provided to cover approved costs incurred, prior to
loan signing, in connection with this contract.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Industrial Estate
6.01      Revenue accruing to the estate corporation will consist of:
(i) rent paid by factories for developed land they occupy, (ii) rent paid
by occupants of standard factory buildings, and (iii) rent paid on houses
provided by the estate. As discussed in Annex 20, all rents have been set
at levels which generate an appropriate financial return on investment 1/;
the Government has agreed to this pricing principle. The financial statements
on the next page, summarized from the detailed tables of Annex 20, assume
that: vi) construction will be completed by mid-i981, (ii) revenue will begin
in 1978 and build up through added occupancy to 1982, and (iii) there will be
reasonable increases in rent and service charges averaging 8.3% p.a. in
nominal terms.
1/   Understood to be about 8% in constant 1975 terms.



- 22 -
Industrial Estate - Financial Statements, 1977-1985
(Tsh Millions) /1
--------Construction--------
1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Land for Lease (ha)                  -    8    24    32    36    36    36    36
Standard Factori5s
(units of 240 m )                   -    -      6    16    24    24    24    24
Housing                              _    -    35    35    35    35    35    35
Income
Revenue                             -    0.5   5.7   8.2  10.4  11.2  12.2  13.2
Operating Costs                     -    0.2   0.4   0.4   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.9
Depreciation                        -      -      -     -    1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3
Interest                            -      -      -     -      -    2.2   4.0   3.5
Net Income before Taxes             -    0.3   5.3   7.8   7.5   6.1   5.1   6.5
Taxes (45%)                         -    0.1   2.4   3.5   3.4   2.8   2.3   2.9
Net Income after Taxes              -    0.2   2.9   4.3   4.1   3.4   2.8   3.6
Cash Flow
Sources of Funds
Net Income after Taxes              -    0.1   2.9   4.3   4.1   3.4   2.8   3.6
Depreciation                        -      -      -     -    1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3
Paid in Equity                    10.0  13.3  10.0    -        -      -     -      -
increase in Debt                  11.4  18.3  13.7   2.3    -         -     -      -
Payment from Pub. Util. Co's        -      -      -   17.1    -       -     -      -
Total Sources of Funds          21.4  31.7  26.6  23.7   5.4   4.6   4.1   4.8
Uses of Funds
Estate Development                16.8  27.7  24.9   6.6   2.9    -         -      -
Debt Repayment                      -      -      -     -      -    2.3   4.7   4.7
Total Uses of Funds             16.8  27.7  24.9   6.6   2.9   2.3   4.7   4.7
Surplus (Deficit)                  4.6   4.0   1.7  17.1   2.5   2.4  (0.5)  0.3
Cumulative Surplus                 4.6   8.6  10.2  27.4  29.9  32.3  31.8  32.1
Debt Service Coverage                -      -      -      -     -    1.5   0.9   1.0
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                     4.6   8.6  10.2  27.4  29.9  32.3  31.8  32.1
Net Fixed Assets                  16.8  44.5  69.4  58.9  60.5  59.2  57.9  56.7
Total Assets                    21.4  53.1  79.6  86.3  90.4  91.5  89.7  88.7
Current Liabilities                 -      -      -     -    2.3   4.6   4.6   4.6
Long-term Debt                    11.4  29.7  43.4  45.7  43.4  38.8  34.2  29.7
Equity and Retained Earnings   10.0  23.4  36.3  40.6  44.8  48.1  50.9  54.5
Total Liabilities & Equity   21.4  53.1  79.6  86.3  90.4  91.5  89.7  88.7
Current Ratio                         -     -      -      -   13.1   7.1   7.0   7.0
Debt:Equity Ratio                  53:47 56:44 54:46 53:47 49:51 45:55 40:60 35:65
/1   Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.



- 23 -
6.02      The project reflected in the financial statements is the base case
in which capital cost is assumed to include an incremental investment of
US$800,000 (9.3% of total estate project cost) for a sewage treatment plant
(para 4.06). This may be conservative, since it is not at all certain that
the treatment plant will indeed be needed in place of tlhe aeration/settling
pond specified in the feasibility study. The before-tax and after-tax returns
on investment are 14.0% and 9.2% respectively in constant 1975 terms. The
inherent financial viability of the estate component is further supported
by the standard financial ratio tests. The debt:equity ratio, current ratio
(liquidity) and debt service coverage are satisfactory in the early years
and improve steadily over time.  The assumed deflators used in converting
from nominal (or current) terms to real (or constant 1975) terms are given
in Annex 21; they have been used in this and all other project components.
B.   Shoe Factory
6.03      Revenues are based on the expected f.a.s., port of Dar es Salaam,
prices for canvas and leather shoes whether intended for export or sold
domestically. Shoe prices in the base year (1975) as specified in the fea-
sibility study were checked by a major U.S. based international distributor
and found to be realistic. Ilore recently, the Italian contractor for the
shoe factory has reviewed the price and revenue assumptions and considers
them conservative. In addition, reasonable factors of safety have been
built into the estimates of operating costs, capacity utilization, quality
of product and market acceptance. The financial tables on the next page
have been summarized from Annex 22 and forecast a financial return of 24.4%
before taxes and 17.2% after taxes, in constant 1975 terms. The standard
financial ratio tests - debt service coverage, current ratio and debt:equity
ratio - are at acceptable levels.
C.   Leather Goods Factory
6.04      The leather goods component is small compared to the other two
project components. Revenues are based on the assumption that factory
start-up will take place in 1979, about 6 months before the scheduled
start-up of the shoe factory. Capacity utilization is expected to in-
crease from 60,% in 1980 to 80% in 1981, and 90%, i.e., effective full
capacity, in 1982.  Prices assumed in Annex 23, are about 20% below world
market for comparable quality goods, the reason being that Horogoro leather
products may have to be discounted for some years before trade acceptance
is achieved. Financial statements given on page 25 have been summarized
from Annex 23. The forecasted return of 33.7% before taxes and 23.2%, after
taxes, in constant 1975 terms, should be capable of improvement with intensive
supervision, training and marketing.



- 24 -
SHOE FACTORY - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1977-1985
(Tsh Millions) 1/
Project Execution Period 2/   Commercial Operations
1977-79 3/  1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Production (in million pairs)         -            2.4     3.2    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6
Capacity Utilization (%)              -          60       80      90      90      90     90
Income
Revenue                             -         143.9   205.3  247.5  264.1  282.6  302.4
Cost of Goods Sold                  -          96.7   121.8  144.5  157.6  169.1  181.5
Gross Profit                        -          47.2    83.5  103.1  106.6  113.5  120.9
Operating Costs                     -           8.7    11.9   14.3   15.2   16.3   17.5
Operating Profit                    -          38.5    71.6   88.8   91.3   97.2  103.4
Non-operating Costs                 -          28.3    28.3   28.0   26.8   25.6   24.3
Net Income before Taxes             -          10.3    43.3   60.8   64.5   71.6   79.1
Taxes (45%)                         -           4.6    19.5   27.4   29.0   32.2   35.6
Net Income after Taxes              -           5.7    23.8   33.5   35.5   39.4   43.5
Cash Flow
Sources of Funds
Increase in Equity                 85.7         -        -       -      -       -       -
Increase in Debt                  127.8         -        -       -       -      -       -
Net Income after Taxes              -           5.7    23.8   33.5   35.5   39.4   43.5
Depreciation                        -          15.4    15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4
Total Sources of Funds          213.5        21.1    39.2   48.9   50.9   54.8   58.9
Uses of Funds
Equipment                         113.0         -        -       -       -      -       -
Civil Works                        32.6         -        -       -       -      -       -
Debt Repayment                      -           -        -      12.2   12.2   12.2   12.2
Total Uses of Funds              145.6         -        -      12.2   12.2   12.2   12.2
Surplus                            67.9        21.1    39.2   36.7   38.8   42.6   46.8
Cumulative Surplus                 67.9        89.0   128.2  164.9  203.7  246.3  293.1
Debt Service Coverage                 -            2.6     4.0    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                     67.9       118.6   172.1  211.1  252.2  297.3  346.8
Net Fixed Assets                  145.6       130.2   114.8   99.3   83.9   68.5   53.0
Total Assets                   213.5       248.8   286.9  310.5  336.1  365.8  399.8
Current Liabilities                 -          29.7    43.9   46.2   48.5   51.0   53.7
Long-Term Debt                    127.8       127.8   127.8  115.6  103.5   91.3   79.1
Equity and Retained Earnings    85.7           91.3   115.1  148.6  184.1  223.5  267.0
Total Liabilities & Equity  213.5          248.8   286.9  310.5  336.1  365.8  399.8
Current Ratio                         -            4.0     3.9    4.5    5.2    5.9    6.5
Debt:Equity Ratio                   60:40       58:42   53:47  44:56  36:64  29:71  23:77
1/   Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.
2/   Covers construction period of 3 years, January 1977-December 1979 plus start-up
of 2 years, January 1980-December 1981; at conclusion of start-up, forecasted
utilization will be 90%.
3/   Financial statements as of December 31, 1979.



- 25 -
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1977-1985
(Tsh Millions) 1/
Project Execution Period 2/          Commercial Production
1977-79 3/  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Production (in thousand pieces)        -         34.2    68.4   91.2  102.6  102.6  102.6  102.6
Capacity Utilization (%)               -         30      60      80      90     90      90      90
Income
Revenue                              -          7.6    16.3   23.2   28.0   29.9   32.0   34.3
Cost of Goods Sold                   -          6.5    13.6   16.3   19.6   21.4   23.0   24.6
Gross Profit                         -          1.1     2.7    6.9    8.3    8.5    9.1    9.6
Operating Costs                      -           .4      1.3    1.6    2.0    2.1    2.3    2.4
Operating Profit                     -           .7      1.3    5.3    6.4    6.4    6.4    7.2
Non-operating Costs                  -           .4       .9     .9      .9      .8     .8      .8
Net Income before Taxes              -           .3       .4    4.4    5.5    5.6    6.0    6.5
Taxes (45%)                          -           .1       .2    2.0    2.5    2.5    2.7    2.9
Net Income after Taxes               -           .1       .2    2.4    3.0    3.1    3.3    3.6
Cash Flow
Sources of Funds
Increase in Equity                  3.5        -        -       -       -      -       -      -
Increase in Debt                    5.0         -               -       -      -       -       -
Net Income after Taxes               -           .1       .2    2.4    3.0    3.1    3.3    3.6
Depreciation                         -           .2       .4     .4      .4      .4     .4      .4
Total Sources of Funds           8.5           .3      .6    2.8    3.4    3.4    3.7    3.9
Uses of Funds
Equipment                           3.0                                 -      -       -       -
Debt Repayment                       -          -       -       -        .5      .5     .5      .5
Total Uses of Funds                3.0         -       -       -        .5      .5     .5      .5
Surplus                             5.5          .3       .6    2.8    2.9    3.0    3.2    3.5
Cumulative Surplus                  5.5         5.8     6.5    9.2   12.2   15.1   18.3   21.8
Debt Service Coverage                  -          2.3      2.2    6.6    4.0    4.3    4.7    5.2
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                      5.5         8.8     9.6   13.1   16.2   19.4   22.9   26.7
Net Fixed Assets                    3.0         2.8     2.4    2.1    1.7    1.3        .9      .6
Total Assets                     8.5         11.6    12.0   15.1   17.9   20.8   23.9   27.2
Current Liabilities                  -          2.9     3.1    3.8    4.1    4.3    4.6    4.9
Long-Term Debt                      5.0         5.0     5.0    5.0    4.5    4.0    3.6    3.1
Equity and Retained Earnings        3.5         3.6     3.9    6.3    9.3   12.4   15.7   19.3
Total Liabilities & Equity        8.5        11.6    12.0   15.0   17.9   20.8   23.9   27.2
Current Ratio                          -          3.0      3.1    3.4    4.0    4.5    5.0    5.5
Debt:Equity Ratio                   60:40       58:42   56:44  44:56  33:67  24:76  19:81  14:86
1/   Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.
2/   Covers construction period July 1977 to June 1979 and start-up period July 1979 to
December 1981; at conclusion of start-up period, forecasted capacity utilization
will be 90%.
3/   Financial statements as of June 30, 1979.



- 26 -
D.   Consolidated Financial Return, Audits and Financial Ilanagement
6.05      The financial return of the project, in aggregate, is forecast at
15.2%o after taxes in constant 1975 terms (22.2% in current terms) as shown
below:
Consolidated Financial Return (in Constant 1975 Terms)
Weighting /1                       IFR
Component                    Factor                  Before Tax   After Tax
(1)  Industrial Estate             .262                      14.0          9.2
(2)  Shoe Factory                  .710                      24.4         17.2
(3)  Leather Goods                 .023                      33.7         23.2
Total Project .21.8   15.2
/1   Ratio of component project cost over total project cost.
6.06      NDC has already set up project accounts in its books, according to
established procedures. The Accounting Department of NDC will also prepare
Bank loan withdrawal requests periodically, based on the documentation of
approved expenditures forwarded by the Project Mlanager. Audits will be
carried out annually by the Tanzanian Audit Corporation, the Government
agency responsible for all auditing of Government parastatals; this is satis-
factory to the Bank.
6.07      NDC, as the project owner and beneficiary of the Bank loans, will
be responsible for debt service. All aspects of financial management for
NDC's Group Companies, of which debt service is one element, is under NDC's
control. To ensure conservation of the financial soundness of the three
project operating companies in general, and timely debt service in partic-
ular, without impairing unnecessarily NDC's management prerogatives and
flexibility, it has been agreed that, over the life of the Bank loans, NDC:
(i) will not permit the project companies to borrow additional funds after
completion of their respective projects if this would result in a debt:equity
ratio in excess of 60:40; (ii) will limit dividends and other forms of cash
distribution by the project companies to amounts which will not reduce their
current ratios to less than 1.5:1; (iii) will maintain special reserve accounts
in IHDC's books equivalent to 2 years of the combined debt service related to
the project companies.
E.   Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.08      The forecasted return on investment indicated in para 6.05 reflects,
of course, only the production/distribution model assumed in the flowchart,
para 4.01. While the project is being implemented as an integrated indus-
trial complex, each factory will be an independent profit-center and will
deal with all other factories, at M4orogoro or elsewhere, on an "arm's length"



- 27 -
basis. (This is established policy for all of NDC's Group Companies and has
been found effective in fostering cost-competitiveness and efficiency). It
is quite likely, therefore, that the Morogoro tannery will be actively com-
peting with the Moshi and Mwanza tanneries as suppliers to the shoe factory.
Similarly, the canvas mill may find itself competing with one or more of
TEXCO's textile mills at some future date (as well as with imported canvas,
conceivably), as suppliers to the shoe factory. This is as it should be.
Consonant with this policy, NDC will have to be vigilant in enforcing
independent decision-making by the managements of the project factories
since close proximity at Morogoro may tend to induce comfortable supplier
linkages which may be less than optimum in terms of generating operating
efficiency.
6.09      Overmanning of factories and low worker productivity have been
noted in para 2.03 as contributing to poor industrial performance in Tanzania.
Both the Government and NDC are actively seeking to improve the situation.
Recognizing this problem, labor costs in this appraisal were assumed to be
25% higher than specified in the feasibility study and this is considered
to be a reasonable upper limit. If, in fact, labor costs go significantly
higher, project profitability would be adversely affected.
6.10      Regarding the major project component - the shoe factory - other
managerial, technical and commercial risks are apparent but the project
has been designed to minimize the potential problems. NDC is an established
organization whose staff has gained considerable experience in the planning,
construction and management of diverse industrial plants since the mid-1960's.
In addition to the basic back-up strengths of NDC, competent specialized
engineering and management services will be provided through the technical
assistance contracts outlined earlier. International marketing of shoes
- perhaps the single most critical feature of the integrated project - will
be handled by a firm with demonstrated capabilities to undertake this key
responsibility.
6.11      Pricing of raw materials, intermediate products and finished
goods is the responsibility of the National Price Commission (NPC) under
the Regulation of Prices Act of 1973. In practice, NPC works closely with
the operating parastatals in revising prices periodically to assure price
structures which yield reasonable returns. Export prices are, of course,
subject to world market constraints and NPC's role in this respect can
only be nominal. As a practical consequence, therefore, price controls
by a separate agency are not expected to have a negative impact on project
return.
6.12      In a sense, the aggregate financial return of 15.2% corresponds
to the lower bound of a reasonable probability range. Nevertheless, a
further test was made based on a "worst case" set of assumptions, which
is highly unlikely to occur, as follows: (i) a slippage of 1 year in pro-
ject execution, (ii) capital cost increases by 10% and (iii) an across-the-
board reduction in revenue of 10%. Under these conditions, the financial
return in real terms after taxes is 7.6%. This is marginally acceptable



- 28 -
in view of the satisfactory economic return estimated in the next chapter.
Annex 24 tabulates the financial return for various sets of assumptions
between the base case and the "worst case", indicating the extent to which
these returns would be affected as a result of changes in capital cost,
project implementation schedule and revenue.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Economic Return
7.01      The assumptions applied in converting financial to economic
costs and benefits are discussed in Annex 25. The two basic guidelines
are:  (i) internationally tradable items are valued at the c.i.f. border
price, expressed in local currency at the official exchange rate; this
applies to both imports and exports as well as to transfers between fac-
tories; (ii) non-tradable items are valued at their equivalent border
prices by applying conversion factors established for Tanzania within the
Bank. Where no specific conversion factor is available, a standard conver-
sion factor (SCF) of 0.75 is used. 1/
7.02      The aggregate economic return in constant 1975 terms is 26.4% and
is the average of the weighted individual returns of each project component
which are: for the industrial estate, 15.9%; shoe factory, 29.8%; and leather
goods factory, 46.5%. Under the assumptions applying to the "worst case"
- project completion delayed by 1 year, revenue decreased by 10% and operat-
ing costs and capital costs increased by 10% (Annex 25, para 7) - the econo-
mic return drops to 10.6%.
B.   Other Benefits
7.03      The estimated net foreign exchange (FE) impact of the project has
been tabulated in Annex 26 over the life of the project (20 years, dating
from start-up in 1980). A net positive FE flow is first registered in 1980,
increasing steadily thereafter. Over the period 1979-1998, cumulative net
FE earnings total US$153 million in constant 1975 terms.
7.04      Employment at full capacity will be about 1,500 (3,000 for the
industrial complex as a whole). No attempt has been made to quantify up-
stream and downstream linkage effects on employment but they are expected
to be considerable. Capital investment per job created will be US$24,000
and falls within the range characteristic of modern medium-scale industries.
1/   This methodology is equivalent to traditional Bank practice using
shadow prices. Assuming a shadow exchange rate of Tsh 11 = US$1.00
and a shadow rate for unskilled labor of .45, the economic return
would be the same as given in para 7.02.



- 29 -
During the detailed engineering design phase, efforts will be made to substi-
tute labor for capital without compromising product style, quality and cost-
competitiveness (para 4.09) but the extent to which this can be done is
limited in export-oriented industries.
7.05      Finally, as discussed in Annex 4, the factories and the industrial
estate in aggregate are expected to act as a growth pole, catalyzing further
project investment and jobs which otherwise might be delayed. The location at
Morogoro has been planned to contribute to the decentralization of industry
away from Tanzania's capital and largest urban center. There is little
doubt that in time Morogoro will become an attractive alternative to Dar
es Salaam for migrant rural workers, thereby relieving to some extent the
pressure on urban infrastructure in Dar es Salaam.
VIII. AGREEMENTS
8.01      Agreements and assurances were obtained from the Government and NDC
as listed below:
(a) Construction of the third and fourth standard factory buildings
will be undertaken only when demand justifies the added invest-
ment and the decision to proceed with construction will be
taken in consultation with the Bank (para 4.03);
(b) A condition of major disbursement will be the availability of
financing for the Mindu dam and pipeline. This condition has
been met with the effectiveness of the Bank loan for the urban
water supply project (para 4.05);
(c) As part of the industrial estate project engineering contract,
the need for more elaborate waste disposal facilities than the
evaporation pond specified in the feasibility study will be
evaluated (para 4.06);
(d) By December 1978, NDC will establish an estate corporation and will
appoint in consultation with the Bank a resident Estate General
Manager, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for an
initial period of 2 years. He will be responsible for the estate
operations and the training of a Tanzanian counterpart. Termination
or extension of the General Manager's contract will be decided in
consultation with the Bank (para 4.07);
(e) A corporation will be established by December 1978 to take charge
of the shoe factory. NDC shall employ, during a period of at least
six years, a qualified firm or firms to provide needed technical
assistance during construction and initial operations. A contract
with the firm responsible for the engineering design, procurement,
construction, equipment installation, start-up and training, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, has been signed and a



- 30 -
draft of the proposed Management/Marketing Agreement has been
submitted to the Bank for review and comment. Termination or
extension of the Management/Marketing contract will be decided
in consultation with the Bank (para 4.10);
(f) A corporation will be established by December 1978 to take
charge of the leather goods factory (para 4.13);
(g) The Project Manager and staff will be provided with office
and other facilities and will be assisted as appropriate
by other NDC staff who will provide necessary engineering,
legal, accounting, recruitment and training services (para
4.21);
(h) Government will pass on to NDC, and NDC will in turn pass
on to the project corporations, the proceeds of the Bank
loans as debt and equity in the proportions shown in the
financing plan (paras 5.04 and 5.05);
(i) NDC will provide equity finance of US$13.2 million equivalent
in a timely manner consonant with the needs of the project;
any additional financing that may be required to complete the
project will be provided by NDC or the Government on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 5.06);
(j) For the industrial estate, rentals will be set to yield
an appropriate financial return on investment (para 6.01);
(k) Annual audits of all project corporations will be conducted
by the Tanzanian Audit Corporation (para 6.06);
(1) Over the life of the Bank loans NDC: (i) will not permit the
project companies to borrow additional funds after completion
of their respective projects if this would result in a debt-
equity ratio in excess of 60:40; (ii) will limit dividends and
other forms of cash distribution by the project companies to
amounts which will not reduce their current ratios to less
than 1.5:1; (iii) will maintain special reserve accounts in
NDC's books equivalent to 2 years of the combined debt service
related to the project companies (para 6.07).
8.02      Based on the above agreements and assurances, the project is suit-
able for two Bank loans totalling US$23.0 million equivalent to the Government
on the terms specified in para 5.05, to be relent to NDC also on the terms
specified in the same paragraph.
Industrial Projects Department
March 3, 1977



ANNEX 1 -l
TAiNZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
THE INDUSTRIPL SECTOR - STRUCTTJRE, PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK
1.        Since the Arusha Declaration of 1967, Tanzania has been moving towards
a centrally planned economy with direct public sector control of important
economic activities including banking, insurance, wholesale trade and manufacturing
(excluding small-scale units). The economy is still based predominantly on agric-
ulture which contributes 40% of GDP, 51% of exports and supports 90% of the popula-
tion.  I^1hile industry accounts for only 10%O of GDP, as the leading growth sector
in recent years it is rapidly assuming a more important role in the economy.
2.        Industrial facilities are largely owned by the "parastatal!l' organizations--
government-owned holding companies operating under the overall supervision of various
ministries. Many of the factories were taken over from private owners after 1967 on
the basis of negotiated compensation payments which, on the whole, have been made on
schedule and are now substantially completed. The general pattern was the acquisition
of 50 to 100% of the shares by the Government.  Since 1967, nearly all important
industrial projects have been undertaken by the parastatals although, in some cases,
with mrnority private foreign investment participation. In 1974, the parastatals
accounted for an estimated 75% of value added, 50% of employment and 90% of new
capital formation in the manufacturing sector.  Nevertheless, of the totel 500
registered factories employing 10 or more, 430 are still privately-owned. These
include a few relatively large establishments such as a Danish sugar factory
(employing 200), a radio and gramophone assembly plant (140), a glassware factory
(270) and a metal furniture factory (325).  Table 1 (page 2) lists the industrial
holdings of the nine parastatals under the 1linistry of IndustryandConirlerce, the largect
of which is the IHational Development CorporEtion(NDC) with 22 operaiting companies as of
October 1975.
3.        Between 1964 and 1 973, the average annual growth of value added in
manufacturing was 9.5% in real terms while the sector's contribution to GDP
increased from 8% to 10%.  Enployment in the organized sector (firms of 10 or
more employees) expanded from 28,000 in 1965 to 59,000 in 1972, an annual increase
of 11 .2%. When placed in perspective, however, these growth rates are less encour-
aging than they appear since the starting base was very small, anl ~increases in
output have been small reletive to the capital resources invested-'(capital invest-
ment ranged between Tsh 100-200 million or US$12-28 million per annum from 1966 to 1972).
Industrial output stagnated in 1974, partly because of imported raw material shortages
attributable to the balance of payments crisis and disruptions in power and water
supplies. This downturn was undoubtedly accelerated by the constraints on needed
external inputs but a more fundamental problem causing increasing concern to the
Government is the general suboptimal performance of the parastatals attributable to
internal deficiencies.
1/  CPP Draft, September 16, 1975, para. 11.



ANN1( 1-2
Table 1
Chart of Parastatal Organizations
'050.0? fOLNliTtY                                 ttYTNlUTT0S  PAODUCiNCTht 55) FS iLPAWT BINISTRY           Ilhoollo         stsotd        csDteN         n
I hti Prla  nilosOar              LOatsb  Adoistiost Cata  (d.ldsy * pIolry produ-tion)
And 2nd ViI_e lAsot                        ansanl La55i corporiton (TLC)
macssatt   oI.Sg                         ~)ia    ndi,, sodpndcoct5i
67 DIat-iot DAnslop_et Conponstions (ros par DitirCt)                     Iusuall  oooIPI_nga Ithin  District
Vttlsin ccl Capital Dfaiplonn.n-t CApItal Dsloio.n  Attionity                                                         druati  Piastota
rrtal uststilstaan                       nlosutitt  of Dsusiopsent NaaoF  attt (lot)                               Lirrtrod Vale   DretopotAnt Conpornion,  Lcd.
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ln rdcsDnooostCnca o,Ltd.
raloance                 Bank of raoaaniaS tn   aAncl    san products. l                                                               dO
I...NationsBnk of Cfnos  (N-C)                                              -nsAn iii (50T)
nationsI lnousnane Conpotatitst INtO)                                      fSaflo Cototun (50T)
TanIanitesrl Dcavlopat Bank (TrDD)                                   _     National Ccld Chain   ..a. iOn (WCCV)
T.naani.  Audil Corporation (TAC)                                          Wknt  llinaoioto Papas
T          _lInootat bank (TIN)                                            Ol)onV nation
.oanis  Nooing Bk (Th                                                      Elft WaII  Eataits
National yoAtdot Ancootisot ndlAwditors                                    Tnansono  nSedtCponny. Ltd.
Dir .5 5ralon  ichool oT OiuoAtintst                                       Tannanlo  sNvy teats Cospany, ud.
(nriotAts of Pi,utcs Osnag.nst                                             DStasioyo Fan..
Klb ha.       ProJec
a        7o11 l-o  CSnnany                                                 Naniinnos Soya Doans    IVi Ittiton
Vidlna Las 1zEtatas                                                      1-     -
DAkotaAs  Entsts                                                         - i lotioteo Sugon CoanoVDy
tnosna  tienlops nn  Snhnmn                                                Ittitos Sugan Lonotos
Fans ooaani Instiocia-(linsano                                             Kngnna logan
Taosa,tl   A      -trinultis I  AcitnM testing   Unit 1(TA1TU)
Nations) Agil utonal Food Cnnpsnstion )NAICV)                              Tatosoa   Li-nstock Mankntins Cowaoy  ITLdCI
Sugar Daoiwo_ntt CTOsnItooion                                              tatlynal nanctlog looipsoy mtd  (NiAhCO)
Lisstoik  scavloptant Vttioni ny (LIDA)                               _-  Dolny panning ConpVnaiIon Ltd. (WCO
NatiopAl DAiry Noand                                                        TiaNnaiN   oinirHts-   LtdC  (TDLl
OsoganyikA Ctffn  A-arid                                                   T.n.nna If-at Proonsing CV.pony (TmPCi
TOo.. il Sisal AAuhnCliy                                                    Tan.n..n   Vidno and Skins Ltd.
fanlsai nta A.uihontty
T.onai Coffs  Ttotnnity                                                _   Tnaanyika Coff-n  Caning noepaty
Cgat-anut A-tho-ity of Tanis (CATW)
T.nsan.I  Tobatto   lth-Ofty                                                Tan...lo Sinai Ccnnnnanion (TSC)
Tansanylik  Pynsthrw  b-ad
Tha Ocdlt and Sunerola ion Fond                           t                 fAnita Conpony Ltd. itS5)
tttnans Castihnoo  C-npsny Ltd  (507)
National Cash_n Cpapany Ltd.
V     i-- ools ToiEta    onosainN  C-p5ny
V.nsnoyka Cat-an  Cot-n
lin (T ..na n) Ltd. )50%)
- Shl I and dP (Tan ana..    Co) Ltd. E 0)
Ita 11Lan_ Pen.IVe. Co. (TlPtt) (50%)
nitiaih Annrian To1an..  C-nny Ltd. (fAT) (50%)
ibo Faynn Induatrina Ltd.
| a iona  Fro) Ptsisnl CIndutnrns Corpona.ion I-NSC)
T.::.ayyk: ltant CAffta  LonPany Ltd. (90%)
s.Natylkntngny PlastI-  Ltd.
aT.8
T.. lt   tSbrtiCe  L          t
ron^ania Unof CCP  DY Ltd.
Tna nia ptilialtio  douso Ltd
N  Lorgo Fotoi      S  npsnts Mnanofotornig Conpany Ltd.
| Alas--  AfrIt  Ltd. (AlF) (6D%)
CT....tio F-ntuinn-  Lo-sy Ltd. iTIC) (60%)
tyno  -oot Anica Ltd. (74%)
|FronD Pok Tatoonla Lid.  602%
'         fnl    Vt Cn-st   and  lndotn   Natiobal Diatnib-Aors Ltd                                                L'D3-Meal A`tt  of Ta-noIs Ltd.
NationaFl Pnloo Coesoissiot                                                     --
Gsna D-an AKncVtnuna  Pnodocc  topono Conponotion (CdPfY)Ul                 Conzntanis   > c itref Iloln  itd  (44%)     Cd(22
T'--an. Pstolooe  -ncion-n  C.n.on.. inn (T?.) .----A                       Indoa-is I FooinSoroIc  ifT-nsial Ltd. 124%)
nationsI Dsn aop.ann Co -tPatio  (N_                                   1  octal to  Cnany of Osnasnio Ltd. (50T)
llata "ginal" Copnto    feOc                                                iani Tr-cc  I caD mml  AsamAIse. Ltd. (NIAVA) 12551
Nagionat OatXtil tonponatloF (TEXC0)-
NoTnd of loannal Trads (BIT)                                                k   boon Alr pnds Ltd  (502)
fS-il Scats Indoatnia I  -snlonnsot Vrgsnsat ion (SIW)                      Tatnania Disnond Cuttiig Cowany Ltd. (50D)
T.onstiL  P-orls-d C-ont Conpany Ltd
t*ny   -ngo  Connay Ltd.
Oyan.. Uam coon Ltd.
| ooch sando  tniog Cepany Lid.
Tatnonis Cansatooto Indoannien Ltd.
I      snnatIdtaun  ianns Lind td
440 Co 'Id F;o7dN pn-s Ltd.
Fcaondstip Ta-cil Hil Ltd
)Te..aa  nT-iss1  Ltd.  L40%)
IlIaa In_     Voottd5ls CoC---otn  Ltd.  (15%)
wIntarry ot Works   Nwnrinchi bWloering and Crsstructlon CoS Ltdursnh2CC0d._(Ott
antfrican Lfana Ind-stnsl   Ltd.
f(tninty of Crenicato $   b trnA^l  bipping4oFDcls Cpapay Ltd   NA5AC0)houCensanis                    ppBag  CFconso  Lnanion "' Ltd.d(1600)
TnAsoLrst Naofiocos   Ltd. 1 0)
HtY               N    sd C rt n . Ltd. (noCCO) Lir                         Nst.l   o Ti       nd n    Cn-ion Ltd. (NOTfF)
.aDttonsl  a gdls a. 1NR(2                          o)                      2D Itoloansl1 ad Industrial  Soppliss C.oy Ltd. (AISCOl
NiAdlA         ys d flstti-IlCoway Ltd. (NHESCO)
-inistnu  oanicatna  national Shtpping Aganina Cowany Ltd. (nASACc)         H...uae  ld   ppltin    rs(payLtd. L NONObi)
a(nd ryansof Nont         l             Cangaan.  agorar Conponstin Ltd.                                             tonnaIit  ppi-s  sod nItln Csay Ltd. (0fI001
S        ato nalty nanpon    s   L    -- S                                  National Eosnsaaottoai C.,sny Ltd  (MI.)
Tan ln  Air Asrolss Ltd.  T_- LI                                            Cnana  FoodsTN R  .. n. tC.ly LLtd. (VEP)
Tansng  onstia taty . httioty (TROog)                                       2Egional Onding Cowanins ions p.I -ngo)
TOZOANI  Pipa..nsa Ltd.
lirnslin.gdn  Tranport to. Lad. (DtO)i
Ir f -d..  .ou     nd            mrtite^l H ..  S C-rp .arla    (oDdC) a                                       ...s sai Coa -o laAlogn    Lld  (TACa L A)
srban~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Defta  DoppOa manorsrg                                                             Ltd.lil
Sig h SA_dll Lt ud.
h(n~~~~~~~~~~~~T                      I:r ori ...on^  I es Tp^l SLon nk.                                   A-uh. Fib-y Yv.d Ltd.
sod  hourlss                              Isnasnin pianiaseZ CunTponatio I (TAFICV)                                   Tobn  Chip  -oand Ltd.
Tanaanta W-sd IndutIlls  Co.pFnat.on 1TWiC0)                    .-   Tbors Ntt  Prodott  Ltd.
T.n.nsn   T-nIst Corponanion  10TC) __                                      GinsfOn  tonact Co s_ ny  l.td.
Oumleono  of  Asoen  nsvelonoont          Taosnls EtsonicTty .ApplY CgtipAtiy Ltd. (TASYESC0)                         oTodan)d OntelH.
acd  Poont                                                                                                            Stntr Chaos) tncitn
_ 7n1t  y of Ltcionglc  Affair. sod  ntane- is National Sclantt I  R.e.esn.h CtuD f IRia n  n.tI. Ltd.
Inol (onwett  Planning                                                                                                Ta=asnia tout. Ltd. (TL)
cc,x,    Nati"ronal  Cu ituct        mae National toIasits of yansanis
A You th
stsof  Cation  and  Sotial  VenuicAs   tsoloos I Pnotdat rnod (OF)
State Locteny Octalorat ion
national uports 0VuPtil
yanasehls maNaifl  SAsiaKtzlns



ANNEX 1 -3
4.        Evidently, given the paramount role of the public sector holding companies,
the performance of the manufacturing sector as a wbole depends directly on the manage-
ment of these parastatals and the operational capabilities of the manufacturing plants
under their jurisdiction. There is a shortage of competent managers, particularly on
the middle management level in functional areas such as engineering and maintenance,
financial planning and accounting, production and general administration. Cperating
companies, with few exceptions, are producing at low capacity utilization and low pro-
ductivity. There is little incentive for improved efficiency since ex-factory prices
are based on the total cost of production plus a fixed margin set by the National
Price Commission averaging about 10%.  Prices are reviewed once a year so that in
the nornal course of events as factory costs increase, either by Government decree
(e.g. wage increases) or through the effects of world-wide inflation (e.g. increases
in cost of fuel, raw materials, spare parts), the theoretical 10% margin is reduced
and can actually become negative before a subsequent price increase is granted.
Dividends payable to the holding parastatal are often inadequate to cover their
overhead costs and special supplementary fees, commissions and interest charges are
levied against the already limited income being generated by the operating companies.
Planned surpluses have not been realized; on the contrary, the parastatals need for
additional resources to carry out their investment programs is an increasing burden
on the national treasury. During the period 1967 to 1973, total parastatal investment
increased by four times, but most of the resources have come from borrowings rather
than internally generated funds.
5.       As a matter of urgent priority, the Government is studying measures to
improve the efficiency of the parastatals. These will involve both policy and
structural changes in such areas as technical assistance and training, the use
of performance indicators and incentives to motivate better operating efficiency,
streamlining of procedures, pricing policy, coordination of planning and investment
decisions.
6.        In the short- to medium-term, however, planning of new factory investments
must take into account the deficiencies noted above since upgrading of corporate
organization and performance will be a slow laborious process. Fortunately, the
Government accepts and is prepared to negotiate suitable joint venture arrangements
with foreign firms as a vehicle for obtaining needed management, technical and
marketing expertise. The rights and obligations of private foreign investors are
regulated under the Constitution (which precludes discriminatory action by the
Government with respect to the ownership of industrial assets), the Investment
Protection Act of 1 963, and the Fbreign Exchange Control Act, 1965 as amended
from time to time.  The last Guide to Investors issued in January 1971 is now out
of date because of changes in the fields of price control, import licensing,
dividend transfer restrictions and income taxes.
7.       Tanzania's overall balance of payments, after being in surplus in 1972
and 1:73, turned into a deficit of Msh 92C million ("S=129 million) in 197h.
Despite higher world prices for its main commodities such as cotton, sisal and
coffee, the trade deficit alone in 1974 was Tsh 3 billion (US$294 million).
Since prices and, in some cases, volume of Tanzania's export commodities have fallen
while the costs of imports (oil, food products and capital goods, among others)
are risinr, the halance of pa ments is not expected to improve over the short-
term. Faced with this situation, the Government has reacted with a pragmatic shift in



ANNEX 1 -h
policy. The Third 5-year Plan 1975-80, which envisaged substantial expenditures
for social development, has been postponed while Government reassesses developmental
priorities, resource needs and availability. Basic industrial strategy is now
heavily export oriented as opposed to the Plan's original emphasis on production
for domestic consumption (which relegated export industry to a secondary role). In
carrying out the new industrial export strategy, the parastatals have the paramount
role. New projects in the planning or implementation phase include cashew processing,
leather tanning, shoe manufacture, meat processing, cotton textiles, hardwood saw-
milling and several mining projects. The Morogoro Industrial Complex analyzed in
this report is the largest of the planned new projects and, when implemented, should
contribute significantly to closing the foreign exchange gap through processing of
two major indigenous raw materials--hides and cotton--to higher levels of value added
in products suitable for export marketing.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
ESTIMATED R}3ICNIAL BREAKDOWN OF CATTLE POPULATION IN 1972 1/
Region                  Head of Cattle
( '000)  -
Arusha                     2,376.9
Dodoma                       767.4
Iringa                       235.7
Kigoma                        79.5
Kilimanjaro                  241.5
Mara                          769.9
Mbeya                        522.7
Morogoro                       92.5
Mtwara/Lindi                    6.5
Mwanza                        872.8
Coast                          9.0
Ruvuma                        25.8
Shinyanga                  1,381.9
Singida                      775.8
Tabora                       872.3
Tanga                        176.5
West Lake                    164.3
Total            9,271.0
1/ No regional breakdom of sheep and goat population available;
for the ihole country, there were 3 million sheep and 3.5
million goa,ts in 1972.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture & Cooperatives (KILIMO)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 3-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIPL COMPLEX
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION - THE EXECUTING AGENCY
A. Organization and Management
1.      Nlfational Development Corporation (NDC), a parastatal holding company
organized in 19(4 and wholly owned by the Governnent, is Tanzania's principal
instrument for industrial investment. It is intended to function as a profit-
making corporation. It has a 9-man Board of Directors, including the General
Manager, and six operating departments: (i) Planning and Finance, (ii) Accounting,
(iii) Manpower Development, (iv) Administration, (v) Operations, and (vi) Research
and Development. A number of foreign experts hold staff managerial and technical
positions to strengthen the operational capabilities of NDC while Tanzanian pro-
fessionals are being developed through formal courses and on-the-job training. The
staffing pattern is tabulated below hy department:
TabLe 1 - NDC Staffing Pattern. October 1 975
Department                Professional        Other
Planning and Finance                 17               4
Accounting                           15              15
Manpower Development                 10               5
Administration                       25              83
Operations                           16               8
Research & Development               23              16
Gen. Mgr.'s Office                   3               3
Total                         109             134
Of the professional staff, 17 are expatriates.
B. Operations
2.        In 1973, NDC activities were reduced in scope by transferring 17
companies to newly formed specialized parastatals in the mining, textile and
cashew processing sectors. Currently, as detailed in the table (next page),
NDCts Group Companies total 22 in 5 industrial sectors:  (i) leather;
(ii) tobacco and beverages; (iii) printing, publishing and packaging; (iv) chemical
and allied products; (v) metal working.    Shareholdings in NDC's  portfolio
range from 55% to 100% in 17 subsidiary companies and from about 20% to 50% in
5 associte companies. Each operating company has its own management but NDC
provides planning, financial, marketing, and other technical services from its
central headquarters in Dar es Salaam. Operating results both for individual
companies and consolidated are published in annual reports; auditing is done
by the Tanzania ludit Corporation (a Government agency).



ANNEX 3-2
Table 2 : "DC GTROUP COI{TANIES SELECTED FIN\1ANCIAL DATA, FY 1971
(Tsh Millions)
lssaed        Gross    After-Tax
Sector                            hare Capital  Revenue    Profit  23?ployees
Total   N1al(p
Leather
(1) Tanzania Hides & Skins          5.0    70       55.7        4.8       171
(2) Tanzania Tanneries              6.0    83       19.4        n.a.      183
(3) Tanzania Shoe Co.              6.o    98        79.0        4.2    1,528
Tobacco and Beverages
(4) BAT (Tanzania)                 48.0   lO0      484.7       22.2    l,l0
(5) Tanzania Breweries             20.0    55      535.5        1.5    1,650
(6) Tanzania Distilleries           2.5    45       15.9        1.4        84
(7) Tanganyika Instant Coffee      6.o    90        6.4        0.8        82
Printing, Publishing & Pck'ging
(8) Kibo Paper lnd.                 3.9    70       41.5-       2.6       406
(9 National Printing Co.           1.0    100       21.0        2.9       330
(10 Printpak Tanzania                3.7   100       22.4        2.9       322
(11 Tanzania Publishing House        1.0    60       15.1        2.0        22
Chemical and Allied Products
(12) General Tire East Africa       30.0    74      152.7        8.9       632
(13) Tanganyika Tegr-y Plastics     6.0   100        31.9        2.8       169
(14) Tanzania Fertilizer Co.        25.0    60      201.2       13.2.      701
ieDtal T6rking
(15) Metal Box Co. (Tanzania)      10.0    50        36.1        2.4,      368
(16) 1I TAVA                         1.0     23       4.6        0.3-      115
(17) Steel Rolling Mills            6.0    86        40.4        8.9       129
(18) Ubungo Farm Imnpements         1.0   100        56.0        1 .4      314
(19) National Steel Corp.            2.0   100       65.3        2.9        61
(20) Aluminum Africa                36.3    60      201.6        8.0       670
(21) National Bicycle Co.            1.1   100        3.2       (1.6)
(22) Industrial Promotion Services  11.0    18.2    n.a.         1.4      n.a.
Total                     32.5        68.3 2,089.37-   104.o0/  8,953
1/ NDC portfolio shares are valued (original cost) at Tsh 158.7 million.
2/ Net revenue, after sales and export taxes, was Tsh 1,340 million.
3/ Tnclvhes extraordinary items and1 gains (and losses) carried forward or deferred.



ANfEX 3-3
3.         Only a limited number of completely new projects are planned for imple-
mentation in the near-term (to 1978) and of these, the Morogoro Complex is by far
the largest. Another tannery is under construction at Mwanza and an asbestos sheet
plant is under study. Emphasis has shifted from new projects to: (i) improving
capacity utilization and production efficiency and (ii) expansion and diversifiaction
of existing factories.
4.         Performance of the NDC Group Companies is mixed.  In 1973, for example,
4 companies had significant operating losses, including a Tsh 29 million loss at
Tanzania Fertilizer Co. (TFC) alone, while others were marginally profitable.
Nevertheless, 1973 was an improvement over 1972 when 8 companies operated at a
loss. In 1974, TFC closed the year with a profit of Tsh 6.2 million and all of
NDC's companies (with the exception of National Bicycle Co.) generated profits
in 1975, although, in a few cases, the amounts were minimal. The trend since
1972, however, is clearly encouraging.
5.         On a consolidated basis, annual net revenue and profits since 1967 are
tabulated below:
Table 3 - NDC Group Companies - Sales and Profits, 1967-77
(Tsh millions)
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972L2 1973/? 174   1975   1976   1977
(forecast)
Sales/L(net)   806    724    711    969  1,062  1,427  1,734  1,083  1,340  1,300  1,500
Profits (after
tax)          -       93     80     69    11)4   144    103       83     90    10)4   120
Profits (% of
sales)        -    12.8   11.3    7.1   10.7  10.1    5.9    7.7    6.7    8.0    8.0
/l  Net sales - gross sales less export and sales taxes. Revenue drop in 1974 reflects
divestiture of 17 companies in 1973;  on a prorated basis, revenue increased for
the 22 companies remaining in NDC's portfolio. In 1975, all 22 companies (except
National Bicycle Co.) were profitable.
/2  Operating results include a number of profitable mining and textile operations since
transferred to other parastatals.
6.         For NDC as a holding company, the trend in portfolio share investments,
revenue and profit between 1967 and 1976 is given below:



ANNEX 3-4
Table 4 - NDC - Investments. Revenue and Profit, 1967-1976
(Tsh millions)
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
T-s)
Net Inv. (cum)/'      211    311    261    334    430    451    356    267    324    n.a.
Inc.(Dec.) in Inv.    -      100    (50)    73      96    21    (95)L  (89)L2  57.  n.a.
Portfolio
Revenue/2           46.8   4o.3   35.3   21.3   26.9   39.0   35.5   26.0   40.0   57.0
Head Off. Adm.       (6.7) (10.3) (12.2) (15.2) (20.2) (23.1 ) (22.8) (21.0) (23.6) (22.0)
Fbp.
Operating Surplus   31.8   26.0   21.0   6.1    6.8   15.8   12.7    5.0   16.4   35.0
/1  Cumulative Net Investments - Cumulative gross investments (equity and loans)
less transfers of investments to other parastatals,and including' long-term bridging
finance.
/2  Revenue - Income from subsidiary and associate companies + interest iered_
less interest paid on short-term obligations and interest on bridging finance
and profit on exchange transactions and profit on sale of fixed assets +
miscellaneous income.
/3  Reflects divestiture of 17 companies in 1973-74.
The relative increase in head office administrative expense compared to revenue is
a cause for concern. In FY 1973, administrative expense was 64% of revenue,up from
an average of 19.5% in FY 1967-1968. NDC projects a decline in this ratio for the
1975-1977 period as revenue rises more rapidly than administrative costs.  In 1976,
with revenue projected to reach Tsh 57.0 million, administrative expense, if held
at Tsh 22.0 million as expected, will amount to only 38.6% of revenue. While the
overhead cost would still be relatively high, the trend is in the right direction.
7.        Summarized data from NDC's December 31, 1975 audited balance sheet are
tabulated below:



ANNEX 3-5
Table 5 - NDC Balance Sheet, FY 1975
Assets                                               Tsh millions 1/
Current                                             102.5
Fixed (land, buildings, etc.)                        13.6
Investments and Loans in:
Subsidiary Co's                     194.6
Associate Co's                       116.1
Projects                             30.6
Total Inv. and Loans              341.2
Less:
Prov. for Dep.of Inv. & Loans        56.6
Net Inv. and Loans                                284.6
Long-Tern Bridging Finance                           39.3
Total Assets                              440.0
Liabilities
Current                                               56.2
Long-Term Debt                                       138.1
Capital and Reserves
Share Capital                                        183.9
General Reserves                                      61.7
Total Liabilities, Cap. & Res.          -440.0
:=#-
1/ Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.
Financing of the share capital and long-term debt has been provided by the Govern-
ment and totals Tsh 322.0 million (US$38.8 million). For all practical purposes,
NDC's long-term debt may be treated as quasi-equity.
8.        Among the notes appended to the balance sheet is a reference, with no
details, to "...contingent liability towards guarantees furnished on behalf of
Group Companies as of December 31, 1975 stands at Tsh 460.3 million",(US$55 5 million).
/i schedule of payments due could be built up from the individual Group Company
balance sheets.  While there is a risk that some of the obligations may not be
met on time by a few of the Group Companies, it is considered unlikely that, given
the rising trend in cash flow on an aggregate basis, NDC would not be able to honor
its guarantee obligations, if needed. As a last resort, the Government may occa-
sionally have to advance funds temporarily for such debt service.
9.        NDC's organization and internal procedures (information system, decision-
making and controls) have been completely overhauled and standardized over the last
few years under the direction of a well-known international firm of management
consultants contracted for that purpose. Since 1972, NDC has carried out intensive
consolidation and reorganization programs at the Gm up Companies and has strengthened
its central planning and monitoring activities. In 1975, detailed efficiency studies
were initiated by NDC to identify and correct problems connected with procurement,
excess accounts receivable, excess inventories, production bottlenecks, marketing, etc.,



ANNEX 3-6
at the Group Company factories. Although it is still too early to assess the
resultant operational benefits, NDC is confident that with constantly improving
management methods and closer control of and assistance to operating factories,
performance will improve. According to NDC's Three-Year Investment and Develop-
ment Program, 1975-1977, sales and profit growth to 1977 are projected by sector
as tabulated below:
Table 6 - NDC Group Companies - Forecast of Sales & Profits, 1974-77
Tsh millions
Sales                    After Tax Profit
Sector             1974    1977    % Increase    1974    1977    % Increase
Leather           134.2   178.2          30%       11.1    11.0           -
Tob. & Bev.       269.5   420.3          56%       29.9    39.5          32%
Ptg./Pack.          61.0   128.9        111%         6.6    13.0         97%
Chem/Allied       391 .3   719.2        147%       15.7    58.6         273%
Metal Working      326.3   659.9        102%        19.0    30.2         53%
Total      1,083.3 2,106.5         95%        83.1   152.3         83%
10.       NDC recognizes that achievement of the 1977 goals tabulated above depends
on: (i) improved management at the factory level; (ii) improved worker skills and
productivity; (iii) availability of capital resources to carry out essential balancing
and expansion of productive facilities now in optr,ation. To this end, in July 1975
NDC published a comprehensive detailed analysis Llof Group Companies' performance,
problems and prospects. The report has been carefully reviewed by the Bank mission
and was found to reflect a high level of financial planning capability coupled
with a realistic and businesslike appreciation of the managerial, technical and
conmercial problems that must be overcome in the near-term. Effective measures
are being taken. Fbr example, receivables have been reduced in aggregate from a
projected mid-1975 level of 41 days (of net sales) to 35 days, releasing Tsh 25
million as liquid funds. A training school for shoe operators is under construction
to help meet the need for an estimated 2,000 skilled workers and technicians by
1 978/79 at both the existing shoe factory and the Morogoro project. Procurement
practices are being tightened; capacity utilization studies have been initiated;
markets and marketing practices are being reassessed and improved.
11.       In summation, NDC appears to have the basic organization, staff and
functional competence needed to manage its existing group of companies and to
plan and implement a long-range strategy of operational improvement and expansion.
Special assistance will, of course be needed in carrying out the major project
at Morogoro; the elements of such assistance are incorporated in the project plan.
12.       According to the proposed financing plan of the Morogoro Project, NDC
is required to invest US$13.2 million of equity funds. Table 4 shows NDC's
operating surpluses since 1974 in an upward trend and this trend should continue
to 1980 because of growth and better operational efficiency in the Group Companies
(also reflected in Table 5 forecasting Group Company profits to 1977). Assuming
that NDC's annual operating surplus averages US$6 million between 1976 and 1980,
1/  "Consolidated NDC Group Company Plan, 1975 to 1977", July 1975.



ANNEX 3-7
the cumulative surplus available for reinvestment in that period wil1 be US$30
million. On this basis, NDC will be able to allocate US$13.2 million to the
Morogoro project as equity during the project execution period. In any event, the
Government will be obligated to fund any shortfall that might occur.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 4-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
MIDUSTRIAL ESTATE COMPONENT - SPECIFICATIONS AND ES1XTED COST
Justification for the Industrial Estate
1.   The original project scope defined by NDC in 1973, was limited to the 4
nucleus factories - tannery, canvas mill, shoe factory and leather products
factory. Since it was planned to locate all 4 factories at Morogoro, and
in close proximity to each other, it was readily apparent that the needed
infrastructure - developed land ready for construction, roads, power, water,
telecommunications, waste disposal and housing - could be planned and executed
more efficiently as common services rather than each factory assuming respon-
sibility for its owni infrastructure needs. Therefore, an industrial estate
component was added to the project as the functional means by which sites and
services would be provided to the factory components. The estate would be
managed by a corporation owned by NDC which would install, operate and maintain
the common facilities, collecting rents from the industrial occupants. During
the preliminary planning phase, the estate concept was expanded to provide
eventually sites and services for additional small and medium industries.
These would comprise ancillary industries providing goods and services to the
4 major factories as well as other industries (not directly linked to the
lorogoro Complex per se) wiich can be expected to appear in response to the
"growth pole" effect of the large resources invested in the project. Standard
factory buildings are also provided for rental to amall-scale industries and,
eventually, SIDO may locate an industrial extension services center on the
estate.
Site Characteristics and Development Plan (Addendum 1)
2. The total area reserved by the Government of Tanzania for the estate is
204 ha located just outside the boundaries of Morogoro Township on the Dodoma-
Morogoro Main Road.  The plot generally slopes gently to the East and this
will facilitate surface drainage, sewage reticulation and render cut and fill
work almost negligible.
3. It is proposed to develop the Estate in phases according to the demand
for developed sites and factory space. Essentially the Estate will be
developed in its first phase around a nucleus of four industrial units -
tannery, canvas mill, shoe factory and leather goods factory.  The construc-
tion of the tannery has already started and is expected to be conmissioned by
early 1977. Apart from the four above mentioned factories the Estate has not
been planned for any specific group of industries but provision has been made
for various categories of industries to be grouped together and located in
zones most appropriate to their particular needs and processes.
4.   The first phase will comprise the development of 65 ha including 21 ha
occupied by the 4 nucleus plants, 2 ha for 4 standard factory buildings for
small-scale industries, a residential zone of some 5 ha and 15 ha reserved
for additional meditum-scale industries; the balance is allocated to rights of



ANNEX 4-2
way and landscaping. Estimated cost of this first phase has been based on
a preliminary layout of the estate prepared in 1974 by NESPAK and informa-
tion gathered by the mission in October 1975.
Site Preparation
5.   Includes levelling, compacting, fencing and miscellaneous earthworks:
Item                    Total Cost
(Tsh)
Levelling and compacting -
65 ha at Tsh 6,000/ha                390,000
Fencing                                935,
Total                         I.,
Roads and Surface Drainage
6.   The roads within the Estate are classified in two categories, main
and secondary roads, according to their expected volume of traffic. The
planned widths of land and paved surface are given below:
Road Specifications
Tjrpe of Road            Rigt of Wa                 Paved Width
meters)                 (meers
Nain                       30                         8
Secondary                  20                         5
The roads will be built according to international standard specifications
with concrete stonn water drains on both sides, culverts where necessary and
sidevalks 1.5 meters wide on both sides of main roads and one side of
secondary roads. The cost of the roads and surface drainage has been estimated
as follows:
Item                Quantity           Unit Cost       Total Cost
(lin.meter)                   (Tsh)lis)
Main Roads            960                1,000         960,000
Secondary Roads    3,650                   725      2,646,250
Sidewalks          5,570                112.50         626,625
Storn Wlater Drains 9,220                  130       1 198 600
Total                                           I375
Water Supply
7.     Pending the construction of the Mindu Dam and pipeline, water will
e drawqn from the Ngerengere river using a weir or well intake.  Some
4,000 n3/day will be pumped through a 1,525 m long, 300 mm diameter pipe-
line to a treatment plant built on the Estate. On the completion of the
Mindu dam, the installations used for this temporary supply of water will
'Oe utilized for the water distribution of the whole Estate for which some
18,Q000 n3/day will he required when fully developed.   Daily consumption



of -water for Phase I has been estimated at 2,775 m3 average and 4,200 m3
peak load. The estimated cost of the Phase I system is given below:
Item                          Units   Quantity    Unit Cost   Total Cost
(Tsh)         (Tsh)
i)  water pumps
a) 3,000 litre/min,
pumping head 50 m           Nos.          2      45,000        90,000
b) 3,000 litre/mi-n,
pumping head 15 m           Nos.          4       30,000      120,000
ii)  pump houses, (4m x 4m)         Nos.          2       12,500        25,000
iii)  underground tank              litre   600,000           .75       450,000
iv)  overhead  RCC   reservoir    litre   400,000          150       600,000
v)  filtration and chLorination
plant (capacity 4 m litres
per day)                       Nos.          1    Lump sum       250,000
vi) distribution system - pipes
fittings, valves, fire
hydrants, installed                                            2,700,000
Total                                                4,235,000
Power Supply
8.   Presently there are two high tension lines of 132 KV and 33 KV that
feed the Morogoro ELectric Subostation which is situated at less than one
kilometer from the Estate site. The station has flexibility of expansion
and no difficulty is envisaged in meeting the power demand of the Estate,
Phase I, estimated at 7-8 MVA. It is proposed to connect 5 JAVA in 1976/77
to accommodate the tannery and other industries and 5 MVA later when the
demand w7ill increase. The cost of the power supply system has been esti-
mated at Tsh 2,050,000 detailed as follows:
Item                                                   Total Cost
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Tsh)
Transformers (11 KV/415N, 3 phase and 230 v. single
phase) and high tension line from existing station
to Estate                                              1,230,000
High Tension Line 5.0 Km (inside Estate)                  225,000
Low Tension Line 5.0 Km  (   if       "  )                125,000
Accessories, street lighting, control system,
lightning arrestors, etc.                                200 000
1, 780,OO
Installation, supervision and contingencies L5'           270,
Total                                         2,050,000
Sewage Disposal
9.   In view of the wide variation in the types of senage produced on the
Estate, each industrial unit will pre-treat its effluent to acceptable stan-
dards before discharging it into the sewrage system leading to the settling
pond or to be treated in a central waste treatment plant. This is to ensure
that the .waste entering the pond or central treatment plant meets minimum
acceptable standards of biological oxygen demand (BOD), pH, metal content,



ANX4-4
salts (such as chlorides, sulphates, sulfides and cyanides) etc. The dis-
charge from the treatment plant will also be controlled. The use of oxida-
tion ponds as specified in the feasibility study will have to be studied
by the Consulting Engineers to be contracted for the design of the system
to ensure that it will be an adequate means of wiaste disposal. A more
sophisticated treatment plant is an expensive item roughly estimated at
some Tsh 6.0 million or US$750,000, but may be necessary to meet modern
ecological standards. A safe estimated cost for the estate sewage disposal
system, assuming the high cost installation is tabulated below:
Item                                           Total Cost
(Tsh)
-  Central waste treatment plant with sludge drying
beds, centrifugal system, aerobic digestors, etc.,
including installation                                5,700,000
-  Piping, installed                                     1,480,000
7,180,000
Buildings
10. For Phase I, it is proposed to have simple standard factory sheds
covering some 5,760 m2 consisting of four blocks measuring 120 m x 12 m -
ceiling height 4 meters under beams. The sheds could be partitioned into
units of 240 m2 or more according to the requirements of individual factories.
In order not to burden the project with non-revenue earning components,
during the initial phase it is proposed to defer the construction of the
administration building to a later stage. In the interim, the administra-
tion offices would occupy part of a standard factory shed.
11. Housing will consist of two storeyed blocks, detached and semi-detached
type, designed in keeping with existing Tanzanian standards.  In the initial
stage, housing accomiodations will be provided for expatriate personnel,
Tanzanian supervisory personnel and visitors and later on will be rented to
estate employees. Estimated cost of buildings (also referred to as super-
structure in this report) is given below:
Item                                           Total Cost
Standard FActory Buildings
5,70mThml 1/                              8,6h0,000
R%esidential Houses
35 totalling      0 mz
0-*7cn) Tsh/nm2                                   9,187,500
Summarized Cost
12. In terms of late 1975 prices, the total estimated cost for the Phase I
estate is:
1   Estimates that were given by a consulting fir  in Dar Es  laam  is l,4dO
Tsh per m2 for more elaborate buildings made of pre-stressed concrete
columns with imported metal trusses and a clear height of 8 meters under
eaves



ANNEX 4-5
It em                                 Total (.'jt
(Tsh?J)
Site Preparation                             1,325.0
.ciPi.s and Sltrfeca Dr_anage                 5),1 ;.
*LS8~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~,3 .-0>
.P-er *Su,pp_y                               2 , Ct5 + .
Serage   Ei r.-cea                           7 ,LB.O
Lana Fse Pattern
13. NESPAK's study of the Estate covers sonse 210?  ' a.  1tr ii-. pmt;d
under Phase I to develop 65 ha. The land use pattern fo-  rThe I _
also for the full 204 ha is given below:
IIorogoro Estate - Land Use Pattern
Phase 1 (65 -h6-Y  lihole Estate (204 ha)
Industrial Plots For:                (ha)     (%)         (ha)
Tannery                          8.0   12.3          8.0          3.9
Canvas ?-ill                     7.5  U115           7.5          3-7
Shoe Factory                    5.5      8.5         5 5         2.7
Standard Factory Buildings 1/   2.0      3.1        10.0         4.9
2 7.    57.           =7 75       157.
Unallocated                    15.0    23.1        103.0        50.5
Residential Area                      5.0     7.7        17.0          8.3
ANistration Center                    2.0     3.1         2.0          1.0
Roads, Utilities and Landscaping    20.0    30.8         51.0         25.0
Total                     65.0   100;         204.0       156T
1/ Initially, administration offices and the Leather Goods Factory will be
housed in the Standard Factory Buildings.
114. The first phase development will provide developed sites and services for
the  4  nucleus factories, the standard factory buildings and additional
factories that can be accommodated within 65 ha. Pollution causing industries
will be located on the northern part of the estate and some 9 hectares have
been earmarked for that purpose. The standard factory bIalding plot will be
south of the tannery and shoe factory, with the Administraiton Center separa-
ting it from the developed plots for light and medium sized industries. The
residential zone occupies the southern part of the estate, separated from it
by a 100 m wide greenbelt. The design of the estate allows flexibility in
lot size so that sites can be varied to suit individual requirements of one
hectare or more. Estimated operating costs are given in Addendum 2 attached.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



I/
e~~&                                    0/<ozCo
z: J > /                                      7                                            TANZANIA
/                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CD
'4-                                /                        ,/
tn                               /                       o ,'                                                   MOROGORO  INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
0  /              /                       480.00 rn                  INDUSTRIAL ESTATE -PHASED  DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Are                   //        /         //--_
rj                  !                i~~~~~ Standard Factory Buildings 
/ /|  - 02-;04!;i;E$;EiS;iE :l:i:485.00 rn              & \  
100   0        200        400     0400 600 t 800 MetersLeather Goods Factory I                                                                         O
I   /   /        | (iAt#<iEC: S: A; fL:Xi             7 :   AREAS:  SUBSEQUENT PHASE
Disposal                                                                  /R   |it  ash,| X'     141     esidentila
vArea                             <         t   E ''L,:        __ OS:  SUSQE                                                  Zone PHSE
S0ale:21: 100 600    -                                                        ROADS8PST             00 APHASEI
200 E 400 S : SUBMeter                                  E       Q      AREAS:TPHASE 
Scale: 1: 10000                                                                ROADS: FIRST PHASE                                                       3;
ROADS: SUBSEQUENT PHASES                                    



ANNEX 4-7
Addendum 2
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE OOMPONENT
ANNUAL OPERATING COST ESTIMATE
I.  Salaries and Wages             No.          t      hAnnual Cost
Estate Manager                1            3,500             42,000
Engineer (Asst. Mgr.)         1            3,000             36,000
Accountant                    1            2 ,500            30,000
Clerks                       2               750             18,000
Typists                       2              600             14,1400
Maintenance                  10              480             57,600
(incl. 4 watchmen)
Total                                            198,000
(say)   200,000
II. Administration Costs
Transport                                                   45,00
Printing and Stationery                                     30,000
Communications                                               4.,000
Utilities                                                    6,000
Miscellaneous Expenses                                      15,000
Insurance (0.25% of Investment in Buildings)                50.000
Total                                             150,000
III. Maintenance Costs (2% of Investment cost)                  1,300,000
j  During first 2 years of operations, the Estate Manager will be a foreign expert
at a higher salary, the cost of which will be covered under a technical assistance
contract.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANME 5 -1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE COMPONENT
Water Requirements and Resources
1.        Morogoro, like most towns in the arid area of Tanzania, has limited
availability of water.  Based on extensive studies made in 1974 by Messrs. H.P.
Gauff K.G., Consulting Engineers, of various possible sources of water for the
growing needs of Morogoro, construction of the Mindu Dam across the Ngerengere
river at a site situated some 4.5 kms upstream from Morogoro is now planned.
The proposed dam will have a storage capacity of 10 million m3, providing a
reserve which will amply cover the water requirements for the whole town to
the close of the century when estimated consumption will be 55,000 m3/day.  The
estimate takes into account usual losses due to evaporation and seepage, popula-
tion growth, agricultural and industrial expansion, including the Mar ogoro
Complex.
2.        The existinp source of water for the town is from the Mor6goro
River, and the treatment plant is currently being expanded from its present
full treatment capacity of 2,775 m3/day (0.6 mgd) to douhle this figure to
take advantage of periods of higher flow in the comparatively inexpensive
gravitational system used. This expansion, however, will be insufficient
to assure an uninterrupted water supply to both Morogoro's growing population
and the industrial estate.  Water requirement for the estate, Phase I, alone
has been estimated at 2,775 m3/day growing linearly from this figure to
18,000 m3/day on full development and occupancy of the estate scheduled to
take place by 1995. Estimated water requirements for Phase I is given below:
Estimated Water Requirement for
Industrial Estate, Phase I
m 3/day
Tannery                                1,480
Canvas Mill                              700
Shoe Factory and Leather Industries       20
Administration and General Services       50
Residential Zone                          75
Other industries on unallocated plots  450
Total             2,775
/1  The figure of 2,775 m3 is the estimated average demand, the peak qe'mand is
taken as 1.i44 of average demand and amounts to approximately 4,000 m3/dav.



ANNEX 5-2
3.        Construction of the Mindu dam and pipeline is therefore essential for
the success of the Morogoro Complex. A Bank-financed project for the Mindu dam
and pipeline!/ has been approved in December 1976. This will resolve the potential
water supply shortage at Morogoro.
4.        Since the implementation of the Mindu Dam and pipeline will take some
time it is proposed for Phase I of the estate, as an interim measure, to pump
water from the Ngerengere river as outlined in Annex 4.
5.        Available hydrological data for the Ngerengere i'iver cover only a ten-
year period from 1950/51 to 1958/59 during which there have been critical years
when for varying periods in the months of January and February the minimum flow
was as low as 0.026 m3/sec, i.e. approximately 2,250 m3/day.- This volume falls
short of the estate Phase I demand by some 525 m3/day.
6.        The possibility of using underground water has also been explored.
Boreholes located some 2 kms from the estate have yielded saline water at the
rate of 1,h00 m3/day. The water is unsuitable for domestic use because of its
hardness and salinity but could possibly be used for some operations in the
tannery.
1/ IBRD Report No. 1199-TA, "TANZANIA: Appraisal of Urban Water Supply Project,"
November 30, 1976.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNE 6-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY COMPONENT - GENERAL DESCRIPTION
A. Justification of the Footwear Factory
1.        Demand for footwear is very much related to income levels. As
income levels rise, footwear consciousness becomes greater. As people
become more affluent, they switch from rubber and plastic footwear to
more expensive forms of leather footwear.
Canvas Footwear
2.        There is a big and growing market for canvas shoes in the world.
(See Annex 11, Markets and Marketing,for more detailed discussion). For the
OECD countries, the estimated consumption of footwear wholly or principally
of textile materials for 1972 and 1973 were 4h3.3 and 466.6 million pairs,
respectively. Of this, the U.S. market accounted for 226.0 and 241.5 million
pairs, respectively, for the years 1972 and 1973.  Moreover, the share of
imports in the total consumption of footwear wholly or chiefly of textile
materials has been large and growing. The tendency of the developed countries
to import has arisen from the increased costs in shoe manufacturing in the
develoDed countries and the comparatively inexpensive exports from the devel-
oping countries. More recently, the plain basketball-type shoes have given
way to more elaborate styles, combining canvas with other materials. This
calls for increased labor and hence increases the competitive advantage of
the developing countries, where labor is comparatively abundant and inexpen-
sive. The proposed canvas shoe factory r4t Morogoro envisages an annual output
of 2 million pairs of canvas shoes for the export market, ThiF: would consti-
tute at most .5% of the woild market for canvas shoes. Given technical and
marketing expertise, aiming to capture at most .-5 of the iwrldmarket is
certainl-y not overly ambitious.
3.        In Tanzania, the demand for canvas shoes, uppers made of cotton
canvas and soles of rubber and plastic, has been estimated by some to have
been increasing at the rate of as high as 15 percent per annum. Local
productian has not kept pace, however, and even with imports, there has been
substantial unfulfilled demand for canvas shoes. Table 1 below shows the
estimated demand, production, imports, and unfulfilled demand for canvas shoes
in Tanzania.
Table 1:  Estimated Demand, Local Production, Importsand
Unfulfilled Demand for Canvas Shoes
Tin T000 pairs)
Unfulfilled d/
Year      Demand a/       Local Production b/  Imports c/          Demand
19Z-      1,000               780                -5                 25
1969       1,15o               320                 360              470
1970       1,320               35o                 305              665
1971       1,520               535                 425              560
1972       1,750               585                 510              655
a/ IACP estimates
I/ Figure for 1972 estimated.
c/ Includes Fast African transfers; figure for 1972 estimated.
d/ Figure for 1972 estimated.
Sources: IACP Estimates and NDC, Three Year Investment and Development Plan 1973-75.



ANNEX 6-2
4.        The 15 percent per year estimated growth rate in the demand for
canvas shoes was based on expected growth in Tanzania of: per capita income,
population, school enrollment, etc. Even with a lower growth rate, Tanzania
would have to expand footwear production, chiefly through expansion of produc-
tive capacity in Tanzania Shoe Co. and other footvear factories in the
country. Thus, even if for some reason Tanzania cannot produce snoes for the
export market, the Morogoro canvas shoe factory would still have portions of
the domestic market to satisfy.  However, as the rationale for the Morogoro
Industrial Complex is to increase domestic processing of exports and to earn
foreign exchange, the canvas shoe factory should attempt to produce export
quality shoes.
Leather Footwear
5. -The leather footwear industry is the most important user of
tanned hides and skins. WIorld demand for leather footwear has been estimated
by FAO to be 4,000 million pairs a year growing at the rate of 2 percent
per annum. For OECD countries alone, the consumption of footwear with leather
uppers has been estimated at 1,262.1 and 1,205.3 million pairs for 1972 and
1973, respectively. Moreover, the share of imports in the consumption of
leather footwear in selected OECD countries has been increasing from 1963 to
1973, demonstrating the trend that leather and leather goods industries have
been shifting to the developing countries.
6.        FAO estimates that the demand for footwear in the developed countries
will grow at roughly the same rate as the population growth rate, while in the
developing countries, it estimates the growth rate at about 4.8 percent. With
an overall world demand growth rate of 2 percent per annum, the leather foot-
wear factory at Morogoro should have no problem exporting its output, given
competitive quality, price, and marketing arrangements. It would, after all,
be aiming to capture 2 .5% of the annual increase in demand for leather footwear.
Looked at from another angle, in 1979/80, when shoes from Morogoro will become
available for export, the incremental market growth in the developed countries
would be of the order of 20-30 million pairs. The output from Morogoro repre-
sents only 7-10% of this incremental market, not to mention the increased con-
sumption expected in other African and Niear Eastern countries.
7.        The consumption of leather footwear in Tanzania has been fairly stable
at roughly 1.2 million pairs in the years 1968-71.
Table 2: Consumption of Leather Footwear in Tanzania
(000 pa_ir_s)
1968                               1, 2h0
1969                               1,210
1970                               1,220
1971                               1,200
Source:  NDC:  Investment and Development Plan 1973-75.
The reasons for the rather stagnant demand for leather footwear were: the
relative costliness of leather footwear compared to other types of footwear
and the low income level of Tanzanians. (Non-leather footwear in Tanzania
had doubled in the four year period 1968-71). If the Government maintains the



ANNEX 6-3
high cost of consumer goods in Tanzania, then the cost of leather footwear would
continue to tend to be high. Presumably, there will be a modest increase in the
demand for leather due to increasing per capita income and due to decreased prices
of leather (because of the increased quantities of tanned leather). On the whole,
though, the increases in local demand could probably be satisfied by expanding the
production capacities of the Tanzanian Shoe Company and other smaller footwear
factories in Tanzania.
Necessity of a Technical Assistance Collaborator
S.       The quality of shoes currently being produced in Tanzania does not meet
international standards. Also, Tanzania does not have the necessary organization
and skills to market shoes internationally, even if quality were not a problem.
It is thus imperative for the footwear factory to contract technical assistance
both in plant design and production as well as in marketing. The ideal situation
would be to attract a joint venture partner with established capabilities in all
these areas; talks were held along these lines with one or two potential foreign
partners but no agreement was concluded. Instead, the necessary services will be
supplied by a qualified group of Italian firms as noted in the next paragraph.
Prime Contractor
9.       Two contracts have been negotiated between NDC and Italmacchine Plants,
S.p.A. of Milan, Italy. The latter will provide NDC with a "package" of services,
including engineering, construction, training and plant start-up under terms of
an Engineering Contract and management of operations and marketing of output under
a Management/Marketing Agreement.
10.      The technical details (i.e. machinery and cost estimates) as contained in
this report have been re-examined and found realistic by Italmacchine Plants. The
following discussion is based on estimates originally prepared by IACP in their
feasibility study.
. Technical Details
a. Product Mix
11.      The IACP study envisaged a complicated product mix of men's and women's
leather shoes and also of two types of canvas shoes, as follows:
(i) Leather Shoes: Operating at 100% capacity, the footwear factory
is envisaged to produce 2,000,000 pairs of leather shoes working
1 shift per day for 300 days per year. The output would be as
follows:



ANNEX 6-4
Production per
Type of Shoes                                    8-hour day_
(pairs)
Leather-upper with prefabricated nolite/
polyurethane/rubber soles attached by cement    2,000
Leather-upper with leather soles attached by
cement, equally divided between men's and
momen's shoes                                     1,000
Leather-upper wAth injection moulded PVC soles   2,167
Leather-upper with direct moulded rubber soles       500
Leather-upper and leather soles (Goodyear)
welted type                                         500
Leather-upper and leather soles cement lasted
blake  sewn                                         500
667
(ii) Canvas Shoes: Operating at 100% capacity, the output of the
footwear factory is envisaged to be 2,000,000 pairs of canvas
shoes as follows:
Production per
Types of Shoes                                   o-hour day
Tennis shoes - divided equally between those
-with rubber soles and PVC soles                   3,334
Basketball shoes - divided equally between
those with rubber soles and PVC soles              3 333
b. Manufacturing Process
12.       Leather shoe manufacturing generally follows the following
process:
(i) Pattern making. Brass-bound fiber board patterns are graded
to size and made for use by hand cutters or clickers in the upper
cutting section.
(ii)  Upper cutting.  Uopers are cut according to the patterns
either by hand or clickers.
(iii) Upper closing. Cut leather upper components are converted
into closed uppers.
(iv) Bottom cutting. Leather is converted into preparedsoles,
insoles, heels, top pieces, etc.
(v) Assembly. All the components required for making shoes,
i.e., closed uppers, prepared bottom stock, and lasts are collected.
Components and accessories (e.g., moulded counters, toe puffs, etc.)
are also draun out from the grindery and assembled. Insoles are
tacked on the lasts and the two-pair shoes carrier of the transporters
loaded for issuing to the lasting section.



ANNEX 6-5
(vi)  Lasting (Making).  The transporters carry the shoe past the
various lasting machines and operations until the shoes are finished
and readj for packing.
13.       The production of canvas shoes is comparatively simpler. The
following describe the major manufacturing processes:
(i) Compounding. Rubber and chemicals are mixed together.
Rubber sheets productiQn and combining of rubber with cotton
cloth is also done.
(ii)  Upper Cutting.  Laminated cloth is cut with beam cutting
and clicking presses. Rubber blanks are cut out of uncured
rubber sheets, which are then later used in the vulcanizing
process.
(iii) Closing. Cut canvas upper components are converted into
closed uppers.
(iv) Vulcanizing and injecting. Uppers are directly attached
with rubber soles and vulcanized simultaneously in a vulcanizing
press. In the injection moulding machine, PVC is injected into
the mould and directly attached to the upper.
C. Raw Materials
14.       The raw materials used in the manufacture of leather footwear are:
upper leather, sole leather, pre-fabricated soles, PVC, rubber, thread, cement,
laces, eyelets, lining leather, fabric, leatherboard, chemicals, and polishes.
Leather would be available locally; the rest of the items would generally have
to be imported. At 100% capacity utilization the total cost of raw materials
to produce 2 million pairs of leather shoes would be:
Leather Footwear - Annual Raw Material Costs
(Tsh '000)
Imported Raw Material                  22,129
Locally Available Raw Material         37,627
59,756
15.       The raw materials required for the manufacture of canvas shoes are:
rubber, PVC, chemicals, fillers, counters, canvas cloth, thread, eyelets,
cement, laces, etc.  Canvas, rubberized cloth, and counters would be locally
available; the rest would have to be imported. At 100% capacity utilization,
the total rawv material cost of producing 2 million pairs of canvas shoes would be:
be:
Canvas Footwear - Annual Raw Material Costs
(Tsh ' 0007
Imported Raw Material                  10,321
Locally Available Raw Dhterial         12,525
22,846



ANNEX 6-6
16.       Prices for all material inputs were those prevailing in late
1975, adjusted to include transport costs to Mbrogoro.
D.  Utilities and Services
17.       It is estimated that the connected load of the footwear factory,
including workshop, laboratories, and lighting would be 2,100 KW.  Operating
at 100% cspity, the annual cost of electricity has been estimated at Tsh
1,013,520/yr, assuming standard industrial charges by TANESCO. Should there
be bulk rate savings, these savings would be passed on to the footwear factory.
18.       The water consumption is chiefly for drinking purposes.  It is esti-
mated that 72,720 liters of drinking water will be required daily. Industrial
consumption is minimal, about 204.5 liters/min., and is used as coolant in
the rubber mixing mill. A provision of 36 liters/day is made for make-up
water. Hence, total water consumption is estimated at 21,826,908 liters/yr.
At Tsh 6/4545 liters, the annual cost of water is Tsh 28,815.
19.       As the vulcanizer of the canvas/basketball footwear plant is to
be electrically operated, there are no fuel charges envisaged for the footwear
factory.
E. Buildings
20.       The factory building to house the laboratory, the pattern-making
department, leather footwear department, and the canvas shoe department would
cover an area of 6,041 m2. The ancillaries -- for office, gate office,
canteen, workshop, power house, and warehouses would cover 5,196 m2. At the
rate of Tsh 2,000/m2 (including consulting and engineering services), the
buildings would cost Tsh 22,474,000. Other civil works include: two water tanks
for 45,450 liters each at a cost of Tsh 125,000 and a fence of 740 meters at
Tsh 180/m costing Tsh 133,200. Total civil works thus amount to Tsh 22.7 million.
21.       Building costs correspond to late-1975 prices for reinforced concrete
construction and steel trusses supporting corrugated asbestos cement sheet
roofing. The cost of fencing may be discarded later as the entire estate boun-
dary will be fenced.
F. Ecological Considerations
22.       In carrying out this project, every effort will be made to preserve
the ecological balance in Morogoro and environs.  (See Annex,lO,para 18 for
more details). The industrial estate cost includes funds for the establishment
of a common waste disposal system for the industrial complex, and the footwear
factory operating costs include an allowance of Tsh 221,8000 (increasing at 7%
p.a.) for iaste disposal.
G.  Employment
23.       The staffing pattern at full capacity is given in the table below:



ANNEX 6-7
Table 3s Footwear Factory - Staffing Pattern
Managerial Supervisory Sidlled Semi-Skilled Unskilled
A. Production Department
I. Leather %ioe Line
1.  Upper Department                  -           1          -          -
2.  Upper Cutting Section             -           2          98         10          -
3.  Closing Section                   -           4         247         -           10
4.  Bbttom Sectioa                    -           1          -          -
5.  Bottom Stock                      -           1          65          -           5
6.  Lasting and Finishing             -           4         295         -           15
II.  Canvas Shoe Line
1.  Compounding Section               -           2          10          -           6
2.  Upper Department                  -           1          -           -           -
3.  Upper Cutting Section             -           1           8         -            4
4.  Closing Section                   -           1          90         -            4
5. Vulcanizing Section                -           1          48         -            5
6.  PVC Injection Section             -           1           5         -            3
7.  Finishing (Packing) Section       -           -          -          -           10
III.  Production Office                     5-                     -           _           1
B. Common Services Department
I. Pattern Making & Grading                       -           3         _
2. liorkshop                                      1           5         -            3
3.  Laboratory                                    1          -           2          -
C. General Office                             4           9          14          24           8
Total                    9          31         888          36         73
At full capacity, the footwear factory will employ 1,037 persons.
H. Training
24.       The prime contractor for the footwear factory will be responsible for
planning and implementing a comprehensive training program for both the footwear
factory and leather goods factory personnel. Training -will consist of: (i) foreign
experts stationed at Morogoro providing on-the-job training to Tanzanian staff and
tmrkers; and (ii) training at foreign locations for key Tanzanian personnel. FE and
LC costs related to the foreign consultants are covered in the "Consulting and
Engineering Services" component of the capital cost estimate and those related to
training key Tanzanian personnel at foreign locations are covered in the "Training"
component. (Annex 14).    The table below gives the breakdown of the latter cost
elements.
Table 4-Training Cost Estimate of Tanzanians at Foreign Locations
(_ s$) 1/
3Dst/Iloyee          NO.        Total
Round trip                   3,000            N         60,066
Maintenance  US$day           ,                20       40,000
x 124 days                12,000            20
Contingencies                                          130,000
Total                   ___,u_
1/ In current terms.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
ANNEX 6-8
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL C3PELEX                   Addendum 1-1
OOTWEAR FACTORY OOMPONENT
BILL OF EYQUIPMWNT
Name of Machine                         No. of Machines
I. LEATHER SHOES
A. Model Rom
1. Pattern Grading & Cutting Machine                 1
2. Pattern Shear                                     1
3.  Pattern Binding Machine                          1
4. Pattern Corner Cutting Machine                    1
5. Pattern Vice                                      1
6.  Pattern Buffing Machine                          1
7.  Vacuum Forming Machine for Last sheels           1
B. Upper Cutting Section
1. a)  Hydraulic Swing Arm Cutting Press 8LVE        6
b)  Hydraulic Swing Arm Cutting Press            3
2. Leather Splitting Machine C300S                   6
3. Leather Splitting Machine C400S                   1
4. Pneumatically-Operated Lining and Upper
Leather Starmping Machine FP-1                  9
5. Pneumatically-Operated Embossing Machine for
Sock Linings FP-2                              6
C. Upper Closing Section
1.  Skiving Machine 61                              23
2.  Single-Needle FLat Bed Sewing Machine
141-705 01 BL                                   7
3. High Speed Zig Zag Sewing Machine 438-49/
01 BL x 6.o                                    5
4. Two Needle Flat-Bed Seiing Machine 144-944/
01 BL x 2.0                                   14
5.  Single-neecde Flat Bed Sewing Machine 543-
944/01 BL                                      3
6.  Seam Rubbing and Belt attaching Machine 122    1
7. Thermo-cementing and Folding Machine COM          8
8.  Two needle post-bed Sening Machine 192-
61/09 BL x 12.0                                 9
9. Two needle Post-bed Sewing Machine 192-
944/31                                        11
10. Single Needle Post-bed Sewing Machine 191-
705/03-725/01 BL                              26
11. Single Needle Post-bed Sewing M4achine 191-
705/03 BL                                     12
12. Automatic Hole Punching and Eye-letting
Machine 31                                    12
13. Bartacker 3334-11-958/01 BL                     12
14. Pneumatically-Operated Ironing Machine Up-1    4
15. Automatically-operated Upper lacing machine
135                                            8
16. Upper Leather Marking Apparatus 102 B            1



ANNEX 6-9
Addendum 1-2
BILJ OF EQUJFIPtT (Cont'd.)
Name of Maelline                             No. of Machines
17.  Spray Cabinet 10046                                  1
18. Two-Needle Flat-Bed Sewing M1achine                    3
544-01-CL
19.  Single-Needle Flat-Bed Sewing                        3
Machine 543-944/ol
20.  Seam Rubbing IMchine FORTA                           4
21. Single Needle Post-bed Sewing Machine                10
591-94V/31 CL
22. Lining Edge  Cutting Machine                          1
23. a) Pneumatically Operated Hole Punching               1
Press S.12-G
b) Eyeletting Miachine 103K                          1
2lj-  High-speed Lock Stitching  Sewing                  22
Machine 463-944/01
25.  Single Needle Flat-bed Seidng MIachine               4
145-H2-2-01 BL
26.  Two Needle Post-bed Sewing Machine                   6
192-63/03 B x 4.0
27.  Single Needle Flat-bed Sewing Machine               15
143-705/03 BL
28. Cording and Zig Zag Sewing Machine                    6
38-45/12-915/01 CL
29.  Single Needle Cylinder-bed Sewing                    6
Machine 335-B2-17/01 BL
D. Bottom Stock
1.  IH draulic Beam Die Cutting IIachine 2085 2            3
2. IHydraulic C-Frame Cutting Press 34-E                 11
3.  Sli-ivng IDichine MY-1                                3
4. Cement J1yplying Machine 1016 FL                      12
5. Hrdraulic Twin-Station Insole and Sole                 3
I-bulding Press 52C
6.  Insole WUaist and IHeel part Trimming                 1
Machine BGF8
7. Leather Splitting Machine 37N                          2
8. Bottom Leather Scouring Buffing and Roughing           2
1Hachine 349-x
9. Insole Channelling Machine 1,200                       1
10. Lip Chopping and Size Marling Machine 1261             1
11.  Cement Applying Machine 1016K                         1
12. Insole Lip Turning Machine 1354                        1
13.  Insole Inside Lip Taping Machine 1318                 1
14. Pneumatically-operated stamping Machine FP-1            1
15.  Automatically-operated IHeel Compressor 1228          1
16.  Heel Cupping, Roughing and Height Calibrating          2
Machine 4487
17. Heel Breast Trimming Cutting Machine 1104               1
18.  Slugging Machine 924 A                                 2
19.  Toe Puff Sxiring Machine 34 VL                         2
20.  Automatically Operated Counter Skiving TkInchine HO   1
21.  Oscillating Bottom Scouring M>achine SG 31             1
22.  Counter Pre-shaping Machine HO                         1
23.  Hydraulic Counters Iioulding press HO                  2



ANNEX 6-10
Addendum 1-3
BILL OF EQUIPIIET (Cont'd.)
Name of M&chine                                  No. of Machines
E. Lasting & Finishing Section
1.  Sts.oling Machine 9253                                 7
2.  Machine for Roughing Lasting Margin on
Upper Prior Cementing 87R                             7
3.  Counter  lDipping Tray 10038                          11
4.  Backnart Moulding Machine 2-HCP 03                     1
5.  Pneumatic Thin-Stntion Stiffener Ironing
Machine 18-G                                          6
6.  Pneumatically OperEted Activating Unit S-12-Z         11
7.  Single Station Hydraulic Pulling-over and
Cement Forepart lasting Machine with Hydraulic
controls 63-H DOMIA III                              12
8.  Side  Lasting Machine 66 Hot melt application          5
9.  Hydraulic Automatic Cement Seat Lasting and
Ironing Iachine 64-E                                  2
10.  Hot Air Blower F-158                                   8
11.  Upper Leather Roughing Machine 14C                     2
12.  Sole Activating Unit                                  10
13.  IWrdraulic Sole Press 755                              1
14.  High Speed Edge and Waist TrimTing Machine
V!TCTORIA                                             5
15.  Electro-t-draulic Universal Heel Nailing
M4achine 027 (N25)                                    3
16.  Heel Scouring  fa chine SG33                           8
17.  Cold Polishing  Sachine PMB-V                          6
18.  hiyraulic Last nipping Machine 148-S                   9
19.  SDrz.- Cabiret 10045                                   1.3
20.  Pneumatic Quarter Reforming Machine                    1
21.  Tack Side Lasting Dachine UTLS-A                       8
22.  Jlectro-Pneunatic Backpart Tacking M4achine CK-23    6
23.  Roughing and Scouring Machine RAPID                    9
24.  1trdraulic Sole Press 754E                             8
25. PVC-Injection Machine (2 Station) for Moulding
Soles to Upper Desma 701 or 1676                    10
26.  Coment Apply-ing Machine 6,000                        14
27.  Upper Ifullirg Cabinet                                 1
28.  Upper Pounding-up MIachine 12                          1
29.  High Pressure Vulcanizing Press Desns  203            10
30. Rublocr  1l,-:b  'rirTqi:nig ML.chine                   1
31.  Side  .      L1;ztii  MIchine 1236 A for TWelted work  1
32.  Lpper L.ohar Lrmvlg ,achine ,72                        1
33.  W,1elt Stit-ching Machine 519ES                        1
34.  Inside WIelt Trimm'ig Machine                          1
35.  Stapling Machine for attaching welt 9253-186           1
36. welt Harmner ni-th Cutting-in Device 1188               1
37.  High Speed Rough Rounding and Channelling
11-chine 134i                                        1
38.  High Soeed Outsole Stitcher 1289                       1



ANNEX 6-11
Addennum -)4.!
BIIL OF EQUIP 2;T (Cont'd.)
Name of Machine                                   No. of lachines
39.  Roller Levelling Machine                                 2
40. Pneumatically Operated Press S-12-D                       2
41.  LOCK-Stitch Sole Sewing Machine 4586                     1
F. Various Machines
1.  Knife Grinding Machine                                   1
2.  Cutting Block Plaining Machine Ideal                     1
3.  Compresser Plant B-2 RMD 3740-313                        1
4. Perforating Machine 118A                                  1
5.  Hydraulic Cutting and Embossing Machine 22ES             1
6.  Heavy Strip and Welt Cutting Machine 2191                1
G. Transoort and Storing Equipment
(a) Upper Cutting Section
7.  Leather rack 10027                                     68
8.  Cutting Die container 10022                           100
9.  Cutting die shelves                                     6
10.  Transport racks for cut parts                          120
(b) Closing Section
11.  Conveyor plant with 60 work places                       4
(c) Bottom Stock
12.  Cutting tables                                          20
13.  Moveable cutting die racks 10024                        20
IL.  Material transport racks                                20
15.  Transport racks for cut material                        10
16.  Transport Pallet ,ith lifting device                     2
(d) Lasting and Finishing Section
17.  Conveyor plant for product items V & VI                  2
18.  Conve-yor plant for items I, II & III                    3
19.  Transport racks for item IV                             50
20. Last racks 10005                                         50
21.  Moveable last racks                                     30
22.  Last collecting racks                                   10
23,  Box transport racks                                     10
24.  Finish racks                                          100
H. Box Mahing Plant
1.  Shoe Box Making Plant 738/739-60                         5
2.  Box Set-up Press 739
I.  IWorkshop
1.  Bending IMachine SB 32                                   1
2.  Symbol Marking Machine SLUY                             1
3.  Size !M;rking Machine V 7                               1
L.  'eldcUng Table SV 200                                    1
5.   ieldang Chuck SF50                                      1
6.  Grinding 1achine S-1T7                                   I
7.  Striking Shear SR-4                                      1
8. MK Material Drun                                          2
9.  I,D Stand                                                1
10.  Make Ready Plate RW 350                                  1
11.  Magnetic Tensioning Plate S-35                           1
12.  Pattern Gripper                                          1
13. Pattern Clarps lath 3 pattern screws                     10
14. Pattern Clams with 2 pattern screws                      10



ANNEX 6-12
Addendum L-n
BILL OF EQUIMflT (Cont'd.)
Name of 11achine                              No. of Machines
15.  Set of Staups for numbers made of special steel         1
steel 0-9
16.  Set of Stanpe for figures made of special
steel A-Z                                             1
17.  Wooden socle %Lith engraved plate to take up 10 nos.  1
18.  Wooden socle with engraved plate to take up 10 nos.  1
19.  Iboden socle with engraved plate to take up figures  1
from A-Z                                              1
20.  Machine stand for S-32 or SUY                           1
21.  Iachine stand for SV-200 or SF-50                      1
22.  Machine stand for S-175 or V-7                          1
23.  Column drilling machine                                 1
24.  Hand drilling machine                                   1
25.  Lathe machine 90 cm                                     1
26.  Transportable electric welding set                      1
27.  Special & Various hand tools                            1 set
II.  CANVAS SHOES
A. Comopunding Room
1.  Bale Cutter                                             1
2.  iner MLxer G-It-27                                     1
3.  riixing Mill 361"                                       3
4.  Four Roll Calenders                                    1
5. Extra Rollers for Calender                               4
6.  Scales                                                  3
7.  Cement mixer                                           2
8.  Spare parts
B.  Cutting Department
1.  ILvdrau1ic Bear Cutting Presses conplete                4
2.  Hydraulic Swing Arm Clicking Machine complete          1
3.  Corbining Machine                                      1
4.  Stamping Machine                                       2
5. Clicldng Dies                                          39 sets
6.  Folding Tables                                         2
7. laterial Stands                                         2
8.  Material Racks                                        10
9.  Transport Trolleys                                    20
10.  Spare parts
C.  Closing Room
1.  Seeing Machines                                       87
2.  Eye-letting machines, double                           5
3.  ConveSo.rs                                             2
4.  Seinng Baslcets                                      200
5.  Spare parts                                            -
D.  Vulcanizing Room
1.  Automatic High Pressure Vulcanizing Press             48
2.  Itrdreulic Units                                       2
3.  Tennis/Casual shoe moulds for men and children        13
4. Basket Ball/Tennis shoe moulds for men & children   26
5.  Tri:Urdng iachine                                      4
6.  Ankle Patch Vulcanizing Machine                        2



ANNEX 6-13
Addendum 1-6
BILL OF EQUIPi2ENT (Cor.t 'd.)
Name of Machine                             No. of Machines
7. Cooling Conveyors                                    2
8.  Spare parts                                         _
E. General Implements
1.  Pyrometers                                          2
2. Thiclmess Gauges                                     4
3.  Hardness Gauge                                      1
4. Laboratory scale                                     1
5. Production Hand Tools                                1 set
F.  Installation Iaterial
1. Light and power installation for complete
connection of all machines end equipments
from and including the main distribution
panel
G. PVC Injection Room
1. PVC Injection bottoming machine Desme                1
2. MoulJds                                             10 pairs
3. PVC Injection bottoming machine Desma                1
4. Moulds                                               4 pairs
H. Box-adking Plant
1.  Shoes Box INaldng Plant 738/739                     5
2. Box Set-up Press
III. LABORATORY
1.  Wiieghing Scales (Avery)                            3
2. Abraison Tester                                      1
3. Tensite Testing Machine                              1
4. Lab. IMUxing IT'll (2 Rolls)                         1
5. Lab. Vulcanizing Press (Electrically Heated)         1
6. Hardness Tester                                      1
7. Plastimeter                                          1
IV. ELECTRICAL EQUIPfJENT AND M4ATERIALS
1. Three transformers of 1,000 KVA each
2. Three H. T. Switchboards of 11 KV
3.  One Main L.T. Switchboard, Rates 1,500 A
4. 15 distribution Boards for Motors and Feeders
5. 5 Feeder Panels with Light Switches for Outgoing
Circuit to Various Departments
6.  Electrical Fittings, i.e. Cables, Wires, Bulbs,
Tubelights
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 6-1L
TANIZ1IA                               Addend=m  2
GMO3W  DnSTRIL COMLEX
FWfhR FACTO! -PLANT LAXOTJ
Finished Goods Finished Goods                                                    Pvc/
for Leatlher    for Canvas       .E   Rubber
Shoes         Shoes                                                         Godown
(hecdj
water
Despatch  Area       E r
Grindoiy      E                                 E   Despatch                A
Grindei y  E                      5    Area
Godown        0          Lasting a               E __ic                     E   Work
Vucnizing
Finishing         -     MouldinE  ut         a    shop
Raw                                   Po~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!c k ing 
Raw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Material                                              Closing  c!
Godown              ___                              Deportme- -I
-nt     2
Assemply        E                   a I
A         ~~Dep art men t   !          - -ACutting and
Bottom  kE' -toing
Cutting
C      ~~-4
I    Ev.
o u   Uppor   E                                              E    ouse
ILf  -  C
Cutting 8        '              Compounding
E| i LEob,ty   l                   ~~~~~~~R o o m   ,
El Lb.1                                       R 00 '    ,m 
0   lOm4    201m      22m                  40 m
LI  m30
9m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
Office  C n         Offic
Gotet   9m                     C anteQn     E
Source: IACP
I:aiotrial Projeate Depart.it
February 1977



ANNEX 7-`
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL CO0PLEX
SHOE FA CORY PRIME CONTRACTOR
ITALMACCHINE PLANTS S.p.A. - CORPORATE PROFILE
The Prime Contractor
1.      National Development Corporation (NDC) has selected Italmacchine
Plants S.p.A. (Italmacchine) as the prime contractor for the shoe factory at
the Morogoro Industrial Complex. Italmacchine is a member company of the
Gruppo Svires International Holdings N.V. (the Svires Group), headquartered
in Cura9ao, the Netherlands Antilles. The Svires Group owns 35% of Ital-
macchine and appears to have effective control of the company. Svires is
an established international financing group with experience in developing
major infrastructure projects throughout the world; for example, in Peru,
it has been involved in an $80 million program of hospital investment, and
in Venezuela, in a development program for railroads. Addendum 1 shows the
interrelationships of the various members of the Svires Group.
2.      In turn, Italmacchine controls Technoshoe, S.p.A. and Technotan
Italia S.p.A., two Italian companies providing engineering services in shoe
manufacturing and leather tanning, respectively.  Italmacchine also controls
Industria Turbighese Macchine S.r.l., a manufacturer of leather tanning
machinery. In consortium with other companies within and outside the Svires
Group, Italmacchine operates as the main contractor for the supply of en-
gineering and construction supervision in connection with turnkey projects
for factories producing leather, shoes, reconstituted leather, synthetic
leather and derivatives (see Addendum 2 for data on projects under study or
execution).
3.      One of the companies associated with Italmacchine is Indelco Progetti
S.p.A. (Indelco), another member of the Svires Group. Indelco, a well established
engineering company will be responsible for civil engineering of the shoe factory.
It is a company of proven competence, and its senior management has had experience
with major, large-scale projects, not only in Italy but also in a substantial
number of European, African, Asian, and Latin American countries.
4.      At present, marketing of leather, shoes, leather goods, and synthetic
leather and products are being carried on by a number of Italian and non-
Italian companies associated or allied with Italmacchine. However, ltalmacchine
is centralizing and strengthening its marketing capability with the formation
of Interleather S.A., to be established on July 1, 1977 with an initial capital
of Sw Fr 100,000, of which Italmacchine will subscribe 51%. Interleather will
assume all the marketing activities of Italmacchine related to the Morogoro
project.
5.      Wobaco Investments Ltd. (Wobaco) of London, and its affiliate, the
World Banking Corporation Ltd. (Nassau), maintain close business relationship
with the Svires Group, acting as the latter's financial advisor in connection



ANNEX 7-1
with the overall financial planning of construction projects by Sv-ires ^u';side
of Italy.
6.      In its contracts with NDC, Italmacchine will be providing a "package"
of services for the Morogoro shoe factory, including: (i) the project en-
gineering contract, i.e., design, detailed engineering, procurement, super-
vision of construction, training, start-up; and (ii) the management and
marketing con-tract, i.e., management of operations and marketing of production.
Italmacchine is staffed with experienced and capable personnel in positions of
senior management; it is also in the process of expanding its staff and
strengthening its capabilities in all aspects.
Organization and Management
7.      Italmcchine operates as a holding company through its three operat-
ing divisions, each of which has been incorporated, in consonance with Ital-
macchine's corporate philosophy aiming at operating flexibility. Each of
the three divisions specializes in one of the Italmacchine's chief activi-
ties: Technotan Italia for tanning, Technoshoe for footwear, and Technosynt
for projects other than tanning and footwear.
8.      Technotan's staff consists of 15 senior technicians and specialists,
and it is equipped with a pilot tanning plant for training and tests as well
as a very modern chemical laboratory. Technoshoe's staff consists of 10 senior
technicians and experts. A complete training school for domestic (i.e. Italian)
and foreiyn trainees will very shortly be established, with the support of the
Italian Agency for Technical Cooperation. Technosynt, established January 1977,
operates on a case by case basis on projects other than tanning and footwear,
such as synthetic leather, leather board, etc.
9.      For machinery supply, Italmacchine relies in the first instance on
Industria Turbighese Macchine (formerly Italmacchine S.r.l.), a manufacturer
of advanced machinery and equipment for the tanning and footwear industries.
This company acts as Italmacchine's machinery manufacturing unit, capable of
designing and developing new machinery required by the group's special require-
ments. With annual sales of US$5 million in 1975, this company has a staff of
80, mostly highly qualified mechanical engineers and technicians. In the
Morogoro project, however, machinery will be internationally tendered in ac-
cordance with Bank giidelines and Industria Turbighese would be simpbr one
of many bidders.
10.     The key senior management of Italmacchine consists of Messrs. Felice
Ambrosini (Executive Vice President) and Marco A. Zurleni (General Manager).
Mr. Ambrosini, h, is a tanning engineer by profession with some training in
economics. He has been in the tanning and footwear industry, as well as in
the machinery manufacturing industry since the early 1950's, He has been
dynamic and forceful in his management style, and under his management,
Ttalmacchine had grown from a tanning machinery manufacturer to a footwear



ANNEX 7-3
machinery manufacturer and now to a conglomerate capable of providing on a
world-wide basis, the "package" of services noted in para 6.
11.     Mr. Zurleni, 38, the General Manager, with some training in economics,
assumed his duties in Italmacchine after transfer from Svires as part of the
program of general strengthening of management instituted early in 1976.
Since the early 1960's, Mr. Zurleni has been involved with marketing, both
international and domestic, of products as well as major industrial plants.
He is experienced in promotion and negotiations of projects, with private or
public entities, and is familiar with all aspects of implementation of major
industrial projects.
Potential
12.     Italmacchine is in the process of rapid growth.  With a successful and
qualified team at the helm, and with impressive technical support from the tech-
nical divisions of Italmacchine and such engineering firms as Indelco, NDC con-
cluded that Italmacchine's proposal for providing the full package of needed en-
gineering, management and marketing services was the most attractive and feasible
of the offers received. After field investigations conducted by the Bank in Milan
and elsewhere and review of all available data on the Svires Group and Italmacchine,
the Bank has endorsed NDC's selection and appropriate contracts have been negotia-
ted.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 7-h1
TANZANIA                                         Addendum :
M)ROGORO INDUSTRIAL C)IT,LE
ThE SVIRES GROUP OF COMPANIES
GRUPPO SVIRES
INTERNATIONAL
OTHER                                    HOLDINGS N.V.
SHAREHOLDERS
SUBSIDIARIES
70     Y      .             3f-
I  RUPPO SIRES ,-. 
U  SP.A.                             GRUPPO SVIRES                               100%  IC0%
EUROPEAN                     GRUPPO
HOLDING B.V.                   SVIRES
52,5%                                            GRUPPO                 1' S3
.  - llcos~-                           -   -
SVIRES
75%   /        ~      ~              ,     A.G.              98% (%FARMING AND  2
IN DE LCO                          Sf_____>AGRICULTURE)
.fPROGETTI                            S11.9. SA        IA
''bruyS197 17
.  I SVIRES. 
j    Inc.   I
52,5Y. 47.5Y < _ _ _ _ _Q |$ ~~~~~~SVIRESI
REL   ULDING            -GRUPPO                                SVILUPPO
KN W-O  &    /ISVIRES(U.K.) I                              I    SP A.     I
S.A                                   Ltd.Ak___y
2SS | W 1 ~75S
-    -                    I B~~~~~DUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENTI
GROUP S. p.A.)
73  1        1 ~~~75%
I SVIRES    I     -
I(ACCOUNTING &l
ADMINISTRATIONI
S.P.A.
-                            ~~~~~~~~~~EDLZIONI
I SVIRES    I
- ___ -    __- formned in No,nembe 1976       |    S.P.A.    I
- - - - - - - -0 P-ess offormation             - -- - - --
Industrial Projects Departmuent
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDTJSTRIAL COTeLEX
ITALMACCHINE PLANTS - LIST OF MIAJOR PROJECTS UNDER CONSIDERATION
Estimated
Estimated          Total
Output             Investment         Partners
Client          Country   Location       Scope of Work          (Annual capacity)  (in US$ millions)
1. Grafton      Australia Grafton, New  Basic & detailed en-    465 thousand            5.o             Weisscredit Bank
Tannery Ltd.           So. Wales,    gineering, supply of       sq. m.                               (Switzerland and Australia)
Australia    machinery, technical
assistance & know-
how, marketing &
output of tannery.
2. Tanne-ie     Canada    Trois          Design, engineering,    465 thousand          h4.7
I.T.E.M.I.            Rivieres,      supply of machinery       sq. mt.
Quebec,       erection, start-up,
Canada        and commissioning
of complete tanning
unit.
3. Ministry of  Iraq       Ba'qubah,     Turnkey execution of  2,323 thousand           34.1            Wobaco Investment Ltd.,
Industry                Iraq          a tanning project in   sq. mt.                                 London, U.K. as financial
and Minerals,                         Ba'qubah, i.e., de-                                            advisor, and Gruppo
Government                            sign, engineering,                                             Svires, S.p A., Milan,
of Iraq                               supply, erection,                                              Italy, as contracting
start-up, tests, &                                             advisor and agent.
commissioning.
h. Ballybay     Republic  Ballybay,      Design, supply of        465 thousand
Tanners Ltd. of          Ireland      machinery, engineer-      sq* mto
Ireland                  ing, & technical
assistance for a
tanning unit.                                                                       :JI
3 <



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
ITALMACCHINE PLANTS - LIST OF MAJOR PROJECTS UNDER CONSIDERATION
Estimated
Total In-
Client          Country     Location      Scope of Work         Estimated Output                   vestment      Partners
(Annual capacity)                (in US$ mil-
lions)
5. Pasig        Republic    Metropolitan  Turnkey implementa-  Trairdng                              51.0        Financial
Development  of the      Manila, the   tion of an inte-      Footwear Training  120 trainees                  partners of
Corporation, Philippines  Philippines  grated tanning and   School                                            the Svires
Ministry of                             footwear industry,   Tannery Training    50 trainees                  Group
Industry,                               including:  a tan-   School
Republic of                             nery, a leather
the                                     tanning training     Trade
Philippines                             school, a footwear   Export Center   4-5 million
training school,                               pairs
6 shoe factories,    Production
1 synthetic leather  Units
and leather board    Tannery          1,115 thousand
factory, a footwear                    sq. mt.
export center, and   Finishing
several by-product  Units               929 thousand
manufacturing                          sq. mt.
units.               Synthetic        2.5 million
Leather          m.t.
Leather Board   700 thousand kgr.
Shoe Factories  4-5 million pairs
Miscellaneous   8.1 million pairs
of rubber soles &
shoe lasts
i ,
Industrial Projects Department
Februazr 1977



ANNEX 8-1
TANZANIA
NOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COOMLEX
IEATHIR GOODS FACTORY COMIPONENT - GNIERAL DESCRIPTION
A. Justification of the Leather Goods Factory
1.        Most developing countries produce some kind of leather goods or
fancy leather articles, partly for the local market but mostly for tourist
consumption. Travelling bags with motifs, inlaid by hand or simple
mechanical processes, are popular with souvenir-hunting tourists. Presently
in Tanzania, even such curiosity-type leather products are of inferior
quality. That is not to say, though, that if more adequate means of produc-
tion were introduced, Tanzania would not be able to produce markedly improved
quality leather goods. For this reason, it is suggested that the leather goods
factory be established to utilize the leather from the output of the tannery
and to utilize leather scraps from the footwear factory (which would otherwise
be wasted). Some of this waste leather may even pose disposal problems. Using
them for leather goods would thus produce multiple benefits.
2.        AdTnittfdT%r, th0r' is a small domestic demand for sowrenir-t;'pe goods.
But the output of the leather goods factory will be primarily directed toward
the export market. Given training and technical advice with respect to manufac-
turing techniques as well as the marketing know-how with respect to ever-
changing tastes in fashion and channels of distribution, Tanzania should be
able to produce export quality leather goods. In this respect, the services
of expatriates to be attached to the leather goods factory would be indispensable.
Addendum 3 of Annex 11 shows the market for leather goods to be US$521.6 million
for the first six months of 1974. Even if the entire output of the leather goods
factory, valued at US$ 2.3 million, were to be exported, it would still consti-
tute at most .4%  of the total world imports of leather goods._  This, of course,
assumes that Tanzania is -Eble to produce the "right" styles with sufficient
rapidity to meet export marketing demands.
B. Technical Details
a. Product Mix
4.        The leather goods factory at the Morogoro Industrial Complex will
produce leather goods of export quality. It will be a modern organized unit
having potential to produce all sorts of handbags, suitcases, wallets, belts,
leather jackets, etc. At 100% capacity utilization, the output of the leather
goods factory is estimated to be based on the following product mix:
Table 1: Leather Goods Factory Product Eix
('000 pieces per year)
Handbags                            18
Suitcases                           10
Tallets                             32
Leather Belts                       14
Leather Jackets                     40



ANNE( 8-.
5. -The plant shall be so designed that it will have flexibility
to switch to other products should there be demand for other prodtucts. The
capacity utilization will be assumed to be 60% in the first year, 70Z in
the second year, 80/ in the third year, and 90p in the fourth and su2bsequent
years.
b. Production Process
6.        The following describes the various steps in the leather goods
manufacturing process:
(i)  Sanple making:  The sample maker creates new styles and prepares
the cutting patterns, which must be ready for the cutting department whenever
required.
(ii) Cutting. For small quantities of certain articles, carodboard
cutting patterns are used.  In case a product is to be produced in large
quantities, dres are used for cutting by clicling machines.
(iii) Stitching. The cut parts are first split into uniform thick-
nesses and skived for the sewing operation. The linings are glued on, grindenr
applied and some of the accessories fitted to give the required shape. Articles
that are of a very complicated design may be partly stitched, sent for assem-
bling, and then returned for further stitching.
(iv) Cardboard Cutting. A hand-operated guillotine is suggested
for cutting paper and board, used extensively in leather goods production,
to the sizes required.
(v) Assembling. Various parts of the articles are assembled, and
accessories are fitted. Final polishing and cleaning are done.
(vi) Finishing and Storing. Finished goods from the assenmbling
room are packed and stored in cardboard boxes.
C.  Raw Materials
7.        It is estimated that to produce the product-mix in Table 1 and
operatirg at 100,> capacity utilization, the following raiv material costs
i,uld be incurred:
Leather Goods Factory - Annual Raw Material Costs
_ -Tsh -T-
Leather (183,102 m2)               10,086
Imported accessories & grindery    1 868
Total                     I175
D.  Utilities and Essential Services
8.        The connected load of the leather goods factony operating is estimatec1
to be 35 E.J. LAt 10O0. capacity utilization, the annual electricity charges :Muld
be Tsh 20,30V,/-yr, assuming standard industrial charges by TAiSESCO.



9.        The amu2i  reo uirement of rater -- chiefly for drinking purposes --
amoun' to 2.1 ri-ilion liters/r. At Tsh 6/h51).5 liters, the water charges
ould be Tsh 3,060/yr.
10.       There i-dl1 be no fuel expenses for this operation.
E. Building
11.       The factory will rent four units of a standard factory building
to be built by the industrial estate.  At Tsh9O,0OO  per unit, this will
entail an annual rental of Tsh 360, iXUXyr to the industrial estate,
F. Employment
12.       The staffing pattern of the leather goods factory is given in the
table below:
Table 2: Leather Goods Factory Staffing Pattern
ocpaEine  Reqirfed
1Inager
Store,en (raw material)                   1
Head Cutter                               1
Cutters                                   4
Cementing and Folding Operators           1
Cardboard Cutter                          1
Stitchers                                55
Assemblers (sldlled)                       6
Assemblers (semi-skilled)                 36
Storemen (finished goods)                 1
Assistant Storemen                         1
Packers                                    2
M4odeller                                  1
Patterr. lakers                            2
Total                            113
At full capacity, there are jobs for about 113 persons.
G. Training
13.        Aside from the funds included in "Consulting and Engineering Services"
which are capitalized, the training cormonent of the leather goods factory pro-
vides for three experts during the first tis years of operations.  These experts
consist of: (i) one leather technologist, (ii) one modellor and (iii) one quality
inspector Who will train Tanzanians on-the-job.   The prime contractor for the
footwear factory will arrange the foreign expertize needed in the leather goods
factory under terms of a contract to be negotiated. Costs related to this com-
ponent are partially covered in the funds allocated to the prime contractor as
part of the footwear factory capital cost.  In addition, during the first two
years of operation of the leather goods factory (1979 and 1930), a total of
US$ 112,000 is provided as current ernenditures.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 8-4
Addendum 1
TUHZAIIA
IIOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
ILETHER GOODS FACTORY CO0ONEIT
BILL OF EQUIPHIYT
Iterm                                                     No. of Machines
A. IDPORTED
I.  Material Storage Departmen-t
1.  Cutting Knives                                         3
2.  Skiving Knife                                          1
3. Pair of Scissors                                        1
4. Folding Bone                                           1
5.  Awl                                                    1
6.  Iron Ruler (50 cm)                                     1
II.  Sanple-making Department
1.  Table Panthograph (hand operated)                      1
2. Awls                                                    2
3.  Cutting Knives                                         4
4.  Skiving Knive s                                        2
5.  Pair of Scissors                                       2
6. Folding Bones                                           2
7.  Compass (for leather goods)                            2
8.  Iron Ruler (50 cm)                                     1
9.  Hanmrer (for leather goods)                           1
III. Cutting Department
1.  Hydraulic Sewing-Arm Clicking Machines                 2
2.  Upper Cuttirg Knive,                                   4
3.  Grinding Stones                                        4
)4. Awls                                                   4
5. Iron Ruler (50 cm)                                      4
IV. Stitch;ng Department
1.  SkIving 11 chine                                      1
2.  Splitting IIachine                                    1
3. Sewing Machine (lining stitching)                       6
4.  Seizng Machines (single-needle cylinder bed)           8
5.  Zig-zag Sewing Machine (single needle flat bed)       1
6.  Sewirfng linchines (leathernear single needle flat-ed) 40
7.  Cutting Knives                                       20
8. Pair of Scissors                                      50
9.  Grinding Stone                                        1
V. Cardboard Department
1.  Guillotine                                            1
2.  Cutting Knife                                         1
3.  Skiving Knife                                         1
4. Grinding Stone                                         1
V1. Assembling Department
1.  The-ro-cementing and Fole'ing Machine                 1
2.  Frame-attaching Device                                1
3.  Aills                                                43
Ii.  Cutting Knives                                      43



ANNEX 8 -5;
Adderurn 1-~2
B:[IL OF FQOTIr.-2 (Co-: tr)
Item                                                     ITo. of Iacahinres
5.  Pair of Scissors                                          1
6.  Edge Polibhing Irons                                      12
7.  Folding Bones                                             k3
8.  Cormasses                                                 12
9.  Cet> of Puflchers                                          2
i'.  Iron a.ulers (50 cm)                                      18
il.  H.amers                                                   50
1 2.  Set of' 'rame-f'stening To4rs                              l
1 3.  Electric Cool-mrs                                        12
11,..  Brushes                                                 20
15L .RivetiLn5 E,, ; c chi r e1
3.  LCI
-. AsSeniblg De)aft-m.en,
i. Pots (fo- rubber, cement avrd glue)                        25
2.  Stone P1ates (50 cr.   25 cm xc 5 ci)                     30
,Source: IACP
Tndzistri21 Frc-ectc Den-       ;
February 1977



TAliZANIA                        ANNEX 8-6
---ZANIA                      Addenclur. ?
MR1GORO INDUSTRDA5 C%OPLEX
LEATE: GOODS FACTORY - PLUiT LAfOUT
4m b                 14m                          6 m
Cutting
E     S ,ore
_4m               101n
F inished
G oo d s
E    Store
Stitching        Assembling
E     Sample                                            Office        <s
Making    Card
Board
E    G)ci rm. n t
(N    Cutting                 Ga r mernrt   Stitching
H-                         24m
--zc n rLL 2ec-ts 3Department
February 1977



ANNEX 
TANIZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
EIB/EDF FINANCING PLAN - CANVAS MILL
1.      Based on a capital cost estimate of 21 million u.a.: and a debt:
equity rates of 57:43, the proposed financing plan for the canvas mill may
be tabulated as follows:
Amount
Step      Source      Beneficiary      (u.a.million)               Terms
1          EDF          Government          12.0            1% p.a.; 40 years,
with 10 years grace
2          Government  NDC                  12.0            6% p.a.; 15 years
with 5 years grace
3          NDC          Canvas Mill         12.0           (same terms as step 2)
i          EIB          NDC                  3.0            2% p.a.; 20 years
with 8 years grace
2          NDC          Canvas Mill          3.0            Equity investment
i          NDC         Canvas Mill           6.0            Equity investment
2.      A condition of the EIB contribution is likely to be that, in the
event of dividends exceeding a certain level, the repayment schedule would
be accelerated.
1/  u.a. = units of account = US$ 1.20
Industrial Projects Division
February 1977



ANMEYT 10-1
TANZAN IA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
CANVAS MILL COMPONENT - GENERAL DESCRIPTION
A. Justification for the Crnvas Mill at Morogoro
1.        Crnvas cloth is used chiefly in the production of canvas shoes, tarpaulins,
tents, awnings, sails, haversacks, webbings, mailbags, kit bags, and allied items.
The defense services of the world are major consumers of canivas goods and their needs
have been increasing steadily. Other reasons for increased world-wide demand for
canvas and canvas goods have been the increase in population and the growth in primary
education. Demand is also directly affected by the level of activity in: construction,
transport and storage, tourism and athletic activities.
2.        There are no canvas mills in Tanzania, and the country's domestic demand
for canvas and canvas goods has been satisfied with imports. There is a fast growing
market for canvas shoes, because of increasing primary education, estimated by some
to be as high as 15% per annum.
3.        Looking beyond Tanzania, there is a big and growing market for canvas
goods in the world as discussed in detail in Annex 11 "Markets and Marketing". The
market -/in the US for footwear wholly or chiefly of textile materials was estimated
to be 241.5 million pairs in 1973, 98.0 million pairs of which were imported. The
output of the canvas mill at Morogoro is intended to produce 2 million pairs of
canvas shoes a year for the export market as well as canvas for other purposes.
Even if the entire output of the mill were geared toward canvas shoe manufacturing,
the output could be easily absorbed by the world market provided suitable marketing
arrangements existed. Should the market for plain canvas shrink, there is always
the market for yarn.  Besides, the machinery in the canvas mill is quite versatile,
and can be used to produce drill or denim. There is thus no demand constraint to
the establishment of the canvas mill, a conclusion supported by several independent
assessments carried out by US and UK consultants during the evaluation of the
project's feasibility.
4.        Cotton is abundantly available in Tanzania at competitive prices.  Pro-
duction has averaged about 65-70 thousand metric tons per annum ovei the last
decade. Domestic consumption has been negligible until very recently. Consumption
has grown slowly since 1966/67 and in 1971/72, consumption was about 9,000 metric
tons as a result of the establishment of several cotton textile mills and expansion
of their capacity. The gap between production and consumption of cotton has resulted
in large surpluses for export and in the past decade 85-100% of the total production
has been exported as raw cotton in bales.
5.        The local manufacture of canvas goods will thus take advantage of Tanzania's
favored position as a major cotton producer.  It will increase the value added of
exports and at the same time save foreign exchange on imports of canvas goods. This
is the basic economic justification for construction of a canvas mill.
1/ Defined as apparent consumption, i. e. production plus imports minus exports,
without taking into consideration inventory changes. Data taken from OECD,
The Footwear, Raw Hides and Skins and Leather Industry in OECD Countries,
1973/74.  Paris, 1975.



ANNEX 10-2
Xv.       While the case for producing canvas domestically is self-evident, there
is a theoretical alternative to constructing a new mill as part of the Morogoro
complex, i.e., expanding an existing textile mill. Within the same time frame,
an expansion project would be likely to be less costly in terms of both capital
investment and operating cost. However, the canvas mill was approved by Govern-
ment in 1973 as an integral part of the industrial complex at Morogoro to be
owned and managed by NDC and project planning was carried out on this basis, even
though the textile sector as a whole was transferred from NDC to TEXCO in that
year. If, for any reason, the canvas mill were now to be transferred to TEXCO
and implemented as an expansion project as an existing textile mill, the delays
in carrying out new studies would likely cause a slippage of a year or two. (The
management of TEXCO, a new and inexperienced parastatal, is already overburdened with
two substantial expansion projects.) As a consequence of the time delay, with
capital investment increasing by some 10 to 12% per annum, any potential saving in
project investment would be partially or entirely wiped out. More importantly, the
shoe factory at Morogoro, representing the largest single consumer of canvas, would
also have to slip by the same time interval, increasing its cost proportionally, as
well as delaying the major foreign exchange earnings of shoe exports. LI From a
practical point of view, the canvas mill must be considered "locked in' to the
Morogoro project. In the normal course of events, as sales increase, the issue
will arise as to whether canvas production should be increased at Morogoro or at
another textile mill. Planning should begin early enough so that the decision can
be made rationally,.
B.  Technical Details
7.        Canvas is a thick cloth made out of coarse cotton yarn and is used for
making tents, tarpaulins, haversacks, etc. The most common English counts are 8
to 16 with two or more plys. The quality of canvas besides its weave structure
is also designated by its weight per unit area e. g., gr/m2. The weight of most
commonly used canvas varies from 339 gr/m2 to 613 gr/m2.  The mill at Morogoro will
produce canvas primarily for canvas shoes, a product which differs from canvas
normally used in tents, tarpaulins, and similar uses. For shoes, two layers of thin
canvas cloth are laminated together by means of rubber or chemicals. The upper
cloth for preparing shoe canvas is always bleached, and when required, it can also
be dyed subsequently.
8.        The canvas mill will consist of 12,600 spindles and 188 looms (112 for
shoe canvas preparation and 76 for medium/heavy canvas). The spindles will spin
coarse yarn varying from 1Os to 20s counts. However, as the requirements will be
mostly for lOs count, the average count will be 12s. Based on this average, the
spinning section will spin about 3,616 tons of yarn per annum.
9.        A part of the yarn produced will be converted to two plys or more on
twisting machines. The grey yarn in the form of 20s/1, 16s/1, 14s/1, 10s/2, and
1Os/3 will be passed into weaving preparatory for preparation of warp and pirn
winding. There will be adequate provision for finishing facilities such as washing,
bleaching, dyeing, chemical impregnation for water-proofing and lamination. The
looms will produce 7,473,300 meters of 140 cms width per year working 300 days a
year, three shifts a day. The breakdown of output categories is tabulated as follows:
1/ Importing canvas in large quantities for canvas shoe production is, of course,
possible but it would reduce substantially the net foreign exchange earnings.



ANNEX 10-3
Table 1 - Canvas Mill Output
Item                                    Quantity
(000 meters)
In Grey State
- Upper cloth for shoe canvas             2,000
- Lining cloth for shoe canvas            2,000
- Canvas                                  3,473
Total                         7_273
After Finishing
- Laminated, bleached and dyed            2,000
(for shoe uppers)
- Dyed Canvas (for general use)           1,473
- Water Proofed Canvas                    2,000
Total                         5,473
10.       The above figures are based on 100% capacity utilization.  It is assumed
that the canvas mill will operate at 25% capacity utilization during the first half
year of operations, 60% for the next year, 80% for the third year, and 90% for the
fourth and subsequent years.
11.       The manufacturing of canvas goes through the following stages:
(i) spinning, which converts raw cotton to cotton yarn;
(ii) weaving, which converts yarn into (grey) cotton fabric; and
(iii) finishing, which includes bleaching, dyeing and waterproofing
the grey canvas.
12.       The major operatiornand types of machinery used in the various stages of
processing cotton to canvas are listed below (from the more detailed data in Addenda 1
and 2):
Table 2 - Cperations and Major Units of Equipment
Stage                                Steps
Spinning                  (a)  Blowing Room
(b) Carding
(c) Draw Frames
(d) Speed Frames
(e) Ring Frames
Weaving Preparatory       (a)  Cone-winder
(b)  High-speed Wcrper
(c) Sizing
(d)  Pirn IWnding



ANNEX 10-1
Stage                                  Steps
Weaving                    (a)  Primary motions: "shedding",
"picking", and "beating up"
(b) Weave Pattern: plain, twill,
satin, and figures
Finishing                  (a)  Laying out
(b) Designing
(c) Bleaching
(d) Drying
(e) Dyeing
(f) Water Proofing
C. Raw Materials
13.       At 100% capacity utilization, the raw material costs are tabulated below:
Table 3 - COnvas Mill - Annual Raw Material Costs /1
A. Imported                                             Tsh. '000
1. Sizing for 4 million meters                         400
2.  Eleaching chemicals for 2 million meters           240
3.  Dyeing chemicals for 1.473 million meters          663
4.  Water proofing for 2.0 million meters            1,800
5. Adhesive chemicals for laminating 2.0
million meters                                  1,500
Total                                   4,603
B. Local
Cotton (4,332 metric tons)                         36,822
Total                                  41_,425
/1 Prices for all material inputs are those prevailing in late-1975.
D. Utilities and Services
1.       The connected load of the mill will be 2,587 KW, including lighting.
vith the standard industrial rates charged by TANESCO, the annual cost of elec-
tricity at 100% capacity utilization will be Tsh 2,285,000/yr. It is possible
that the Morogoro Estate will be able to negotiate a lower bulk rate for the full
estate load. If that occurs, the saving mDuld be passed on in whole or in part
to the canvas mill (and the other factories) but, for purposes of analyzing
operating profits, it was conservatively assumed that the higher rates would
prevail.



ANNEX 10-5
15.       Water consumption - mainly for sizing, washing and bleachiqg, dyeing,
laminating, air-conditioning and steam generation - will tot4l, 600 mJ/day plus
60m3 for sanitary purposes with a peak demand of 30 to 35 mi/hr.  The standard
water charge in Tanzania is Tsh 1.4/03 and the annual cost will be Tsh. 278,000
based on 330 day, 3 shift operation.
16.       Fuel oil requirements are estimated to be 3.55 million liters per year
to generate 32.2 million kg. of steam. At Tsh 462/1000 liters, fuel oil will cost
annually Tsh 1.64 million (full capacity operation).
E. Buildings
17.       The factory building to house spinning, weaving and finishing will cover
18,458 m.2 and aecillary structures for warehousing, boilers, canteen and offices
will add 2,271 m . At Tsh 1,400/m , including consulting and engineering charges
(10% of civil works), buildings will cost Tsh 29.0 million. Building costs corres-
pond to late - 1975 prices for reinforced concrete construction and steel trusses
supporting corrugated asbestos cement sheet roofing. Fencing at Tsh 180/m for
1,030 m or Tsh 185,400 total was added to the civil works cost estimate in the IACP
study, but this item may be discarded since the entire estate boundary will be fenced.
F. Ecological Considerations
18.       The air quality at Morogoro is relatively good because there are few
industrial units in the area. In carrying out the project, every effort will be
made to control within acceptable limits the discharge of solid, liquid and gaseous
wastes. Flue gases from the steam boiler will be automatically regulated to ensure
total combustion. The spinning and weaving departments will exhaust air through
filters to prevent fibers and dust from reaching the outside atmosphere. Carding
equipment will be equipped with floor waste exhaust filters. Liquid effluent from
the converting operations will be discharged to open settling ponds. According to
present plans, a 57 ha settling pond will be installed as part of the tannery
project. It is likely that the effluent from the canvas mill could also be run
into a pond of this size but this question requires further study by experts. A
final option will be a more sophisticated central waste treatment plant for all
estate factories. During the design phase, a study of feasible alternatives will
be undertaken and a decision taken on the optimum solution to the problem of liquid
waste disposal. In this report, it has been assumed, conservatively, that a more
sophisticated and more costly system will be needed than was foreseen in the
feasibility study. The industrial estate cost, therefore, includes funds to cover
this contingency (!nnex 4, para. 8).



ANNEX 10-6
G.  Employment
19.       The staffing pattern at full capacity is given in the table below:
Table 4 - Canvas Mill - Staffing Pattern
Managerial Supervisory Scilled Semi-Skilled Unskilled
fi. Production &-partment
1. Blow Room                                 -          11           5          13
2.  Card Room                                -          21           5          13
3.  Draw Frame and Speed       -             -          42          21           4
Frame
4. Ring Frame                  -             3         166           6          21
5.  Winding and Twisting       -              3        150         16            9
6.  Pirn Winding, iLrping      -             -          28           8           4
and Sizing
7. Weaving                     -             6         127         45           13
8.  Finishing                  -              -         21           6          16
9.  Making-up Dept.            -              -          4           2          -
10.  Production Office Staff  13               8          8          -            2
B. Service Department
1.  Electrical                  1            -          12          -           -
2.  Workshop                    1            -          13           7          -
3.  Ebiler                     -             -           3           6          -
C.  General Office                  7           17           4          23           7
Total                      22           37         610        150          102
At full capacity, tha mill will employ close to 1,000 people.
H. Training
20.       The prime contractor will be responsible for planning and implementing a
comprehensive program of treining.  It will consist of: (i) foreign experts stationed
at M4orogoro providing on-the-job training to Tanzanian steff and workers; and (ii)
training at foreign canvas mills for key Tanzan .an personncil. FE and LC costs related
to the foreign consultants are covered in the "Consulting aMid Engineering Services'
component of the capital cost estimate and those related to training Tanzanian key
personnel at foreign locations are covered in the "'Training" component totalline
US$430,000 (in current terms) as shown in the capital cost estimate.    The
table below gives the breakdon of the latter cost elementss



ANNEX 10-7
Table 5-Training Cost Estimate of Tanzanians at Foreign Locations
(MS$)  1/
Cost/ ! loyees  No.   Total
Round trip                              3,000   -   20    57,-T
Maintenance OUS$50/day x 180 days    12,000          20   240,000
Contingencies                                              130,000
Total                                            430Q,000
L/ In current terms.
I. Financial and Economic Rates of Return
21.            Based on the assumptions made by the mission, the financial rate of re-
turn was calculated to be 13.6% before tax and 9.5% after tax. The economic rate of
return was calculated to be 18.5%.
Industrial Projects Dbpartment
February 1977



TANZANIA                            ANNEX 11-1
MOROGORO INDIJSTRIAL COMPLEX
MARKETS AND MARKETING
A. Hides and Skins - 'World Production and Trade
1.        Hides.and skins are by-products of the meet and dairy industries.
olhile there has been an increene in the demand for meat and dairy products, the
production of hides and skins hat remained fairly constant in recent years. The
re son has been th&t increased demand for meat and dairy products has been met
through increased yields rather than through higher slauglhter rates. With
increases in income levels, people, especially in the developed countries, demand
more leather and leather goods. While synthetics have made inroads into markets
traditionally serviced by leather, there are natural qualities in leather that
s.ynthetics have not been able to duplicate. Given increasing demand and a more
or less fixed supply, there have been sharp increases in prices (one weighted
average before the recent world recession showed a 30 percent increase over
previous years) of hides and skins. During the recent world recession, demand
slackened but with the recovery, demand for hides and skins has once again picked
up. Table 1 below shows wrld production and trade in hides and skins for the
years 1968-71. The data show that the production of sheep skins alone has gronn
modestly. Cattle hides and goat skins production has been substantially unchanged.
Total world exports do not equal world imports because of stock changes and statis-
tical errors in data collection. In the discussion below, the world has been
conveniently divided into three parts: developed, developing, and centrally planned.
Table 1-World Production, Exporta and Importa of HLdea and Skins, 1968-71
Items                      Production      Production  Export       Import
(Million Pieces) --   (MT '                 ---)---
1968
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins           236.6       l,175.2      1,136.0      1,162.0
Sheep Skins                         3h8.7          311.3       201.2        208.0
Goat Skins Total1                                  136.3        330          31 6
Total :           ~~~699.8     1L624.O      1302         1,4L01.6
1969
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins           238.5       L,258.9      1,221.lt    1,227.5
Sheep Skins                         356.3         307.0        211.2       217.0
Goat Skins                          116.8         101.2         38 6        35.
Total                     711.6        ,670.      1h712          779.7
1970
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins           239.7       14,27h.h     1,217.L,    1,261.5
Sheep Skins                         36C.7         327.6        200.0       211.3
Goat Skins                          115.0         102.6         32.9         35.4
Total                     715-L                    1, l 50 3   1,508.2
1971
C-ttle Hides & Calf Skins           236.1       L,216.o      1,176.2     1,210.0
Sheen Skins                         38C.0         339.1        223.6       218.3
Goat Skins                         l1L.5          102.0         31.6        36.1
Total :                   i3C.6       7,657.1     1,431.h      1
Source:  FAO, Conriodty Review and Outlook.



ANNEX 11-2
2.        Table 2 below shows the production and trade of hides and skins of
the developed countries in the period 1968-71. The developed countries produce
about 38 Dercent of the world's hides and skins but the bulk of these are
exported for processing in low-labor cost countries. From the ratios of exports
to production, we can see the trend that is confirmed by leather experts around
the world, i.e., the developed countries are phasing themselves out of the leather
tanning business. They are not building new capacity or replacing obsolete
tanneries because of pollution problems and because iith rising income levels,
fewer people are willing to work in tanneries.
Table 2IJevelopge  Countries Annual Production  port and Imports of Hides and  adins 1968-71
Production    Production ExDort  ImDort Ratio of Ratio of
Items                   (Million pieces)    (P)       (X)      (M)   (x-/T     T77
----------(MTOOO)----
1968
Cattle Hides & C-alf Skins           9J4.8     1,6L2.7       8l3.5   862.8  51.3    52.5
Sheep Skins                         119.2        133.2       123.5   20h.3  92.7   153.)J
Goat Skins                           10.2         12.1         L.6    N.A   38.0    N.A
Total               :        72     1,758.0       971.6   7T    T3   59.6
1969
Cattle Hides &: Calf Skins           9L.0      1,667.8       868.7   915.0  52.0    51!.8
Sheep Skins                         151i.1       137.5       129.0   211.8  93 .8   15L.0
Goat Skins                           10.3          9.1         5.1    29.2  56.o   320.e
Total                     2 58.7,   1,8TI     l,ooT  1,176.Qb  3          63.7
1970
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins            93.3      1,666.o       903.3   905.1  51,.2   51.3
Sheep Skins                         157.3        TLO.h       12L.6   207.8  89.0   1H8.0
Goat Skins                           10.           8.0         -3    N.A   56.C    N A
Total                     260.      T,1T        1,032.2 1,112.9  56.8
1971
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins            94.0      1,687,5       967.0   855.o  57.3    50.7
Sheep Skins                         165.0       1L7.3        136.0   215.0  92.3  IJA.C
Goat Skins                            9-5          8A          1.5    33.0  53.5    92.8
Total:                              1,8L3.2    1,107.7  1,103.0) -01 
Source : FAO, Commodity Review and Outlook.
3.        Table 3 below shows the production and trade of the developing countries
in hides and sldns.  The countries in the developing world produce 42 percent of
the world's hides and skins, and also are net exoorters of these commodities. But,
just as the developed countries are phasing out of the business of tanning, the
developing countries are expanding their tanning capacity. Many tanneries have
been and are being dismantled, transported and installed in developing countries



ANNEX 11-3
with the assistance of experts from the developed countries, frequently under
joint venture arrangements of one type or another. The ratios of exports and
imports to production corroborate this thesis. Exports as a ratio of production
declined from 20 percent in 1968 to 15.8 percent in 1971, and inports increased
steadily from 5.8 percent in 1968 to 7.8 percent in 1971. Developing countries
are tanning increasing amounit of their omn production of hides and skins and
exporting them in the form of semi-finished or finished leather or in leather
manufactures,
T>.ble 3-Developing Countries Annual Production,Export and Imports of Hides and Skins,1968-71
Production    Production Export  Import Ratio of Ratio of
Items                   (Million pieces)    (P)       (X)      (M)   X to P    M to P
----------(MT0ooo)-
1968
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins          95.6         1,707.1   282.2    101.6   16.5        5.9
Sheep Skins                       115.5           103.1    76.1       3.8   73.8       3.6
Goat Skins                        101.1           120.3    25.3       o.5   21.0       0.4
Total:                 312.2        1,930.5   303.6  105.9   20.0           7
1969
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins          98.8         1,764.2   341.4    112.7   19.3        6.3
SheepSkins                        116.4           103.9    83.8       5.2   80.6       5.0
Goat Skins                        902.3              .2    26.9       0.6   22.1       0.6
Total:                 3l8.5        1,960.3   452.1    1         23.0
1970
-tle FTides & Crlf Skins        101.4         1,810.7   304.6    133.9   16.8        7.3
Sheep Skirs                       118.3           105.6    72.8       3.5   68.9       3.3
To;t Skirs                        102.0           91.0    22.6       o.6   24.8       o.6
Totrl:                 321.7        2,007.3   400.0    193.0    9.9       7
1971
Cattle Hides & Calf Skins          95.5        1,705.3   198.0    145.0   11.6        8.5
Sheep Skins                       120.0          107.1    85.0       3.5   79.3       3.2
Goat Skins                        102.0           91.0    18.5       o.6   20.3       o.6
Total:                  317.7       1,903.4   3o1.5    149.1   15.8        773
Source: FAO, Comnodity Review and Outlook.
4.        Table 4 below shows the production and trade of centrally planned
economies in hides and skins. These countries account for about 20 percent of
the world's production. Centrally planned countries are substantial net importers
of hides and skins.  These countries export around 2 percent of their output and
import 20-25 percent of their production. The ratio of exports to production is
gradually increasing, fromi 1.8 in 1968 to 5.3 in 1971; but so is the ratio of
inDorts to production, from 25.3 in 1968 to 43.5 in 1971.  These figures do not
tell the story very clearly but because of increasing labor costs, sone of the
centrally planned countries have also been phasing out of the tanning business.



This opens ut an opportunity to increase ta.nning capacit7r i  c M-Gries like
Tanzania that urgently need to increase  domestic value added and foreign
exchange earnings.
Table 4 - Centrally Planned Countries Annual Production,
Exports and Imports of Hides and Skins, 1966-71
Production  Production Export   Import   Ratio of   Ratio of
Items              (million       (P)       (X)      (M)      X to P     M to P
pieces)              (MT '000)             (          (
1968
Cattle Hides & Calf
Skins               46.2        825.0      9.3      223.9       1.1        27.1
Sheep Skins            84.0          3.8       1.6      N.A.      42.1         N.A.
Coat Skins              3.2         75.0       5.7       4.7       7.6          6.2
TOTAL:     1733         T90 3.7    777-      722.        177.3
1969
Cattle Hides & Calf
Skins               45.7        816.0     11.3      199.8       1.3         24.4
Sheep Skins            85.8         76.7      2.4       N.A.       3.1        N.A.
Goat Skins              3.2          2.8       2.6       5.4      92.8        192.8
TOTAL:      134.7        895.4      16.3      205.2      1.8         22.9
'x970
Cattle Hides & Calf
Skins               45.0        803.5     10.5      251.3       1.2        31.2
Sheep Skins            85.1         75.9       2.6      N.A.       3.4         N.A.
Goat Skins              2.9          2.5       6.o       6.o    240.0         240.0
TOTAL:      133.0        881.9      19.1      257.3       2.2        29.1
1971
Cattle Hides & Calf
Skins               46.6        332.1     11.2      180.0       3.L        54.2
Sheep Skins            95.0         84.8       2.6      N.A.       I.         N.A.
Goat Skins              3.0          2.6       8.6       2.5    330.7          96.1
TOTAL:      144.6        419.5      22.;      162.5      5-3         43.5
Source: FAO, Commodity Review and Outlook
Tanzanian Ilides amnd SLcUins
5.        Tanzania ranks among the three most import exporters of cattle hides
in Africa, together 7mth fthiopia and Nigeria.  As an exporter of goat slidins, it
belongs to the principal four African countries, wLhile it plapys a les,s Signifi-
cant role in the trade of sheep slins.  In the past, commercial availability of
hides and skins have nveraged about 1.0 million and 1.5 million pieces, respec-
tively. Industry sources believe that the availability of hides and skins mill
remain at their Dresent levels.  Even so, there should be no problem in sutp'ng
anzaLni  s atanneries with raw hides, since, with an estimrted cattle population
of 10 rilli.on anf aRn aer-e off-t.`-e rate of 10/, there mill be ' million hidea
avail:b'-le for an installed cap;acity of 920,000 hides p.a.  There m.a, how.ever,



ANNEX 11-5
be some orobla-ms connected 7dth slcnp.  ?ecently, due to exchange rate non-
alignmets -mon-g -at Africsn countmries, as much as 405, o' the skins have been
smuggled out of Tanzania and sold at better Drices elsewfhere. There may also
be IlTiiued availability of certain grades of skins.  The planned tanneries
should thus be equipped to utilize different grades of skins flexibly.  Addendta 1
shows the estimbaed out-'pit and value of hides anrr s1cins from 1965 to 1973. Time
series data sho-u that due to decreased n-mziber of slaugh;tel-rigs and "'leakyr" borders,
hides and skins availabilit-yt withLn Tanzania have registered declines in the
period between 1965 and 1972: hlides fron 1,131,505 pcs. in 1965 to 996,560 in
19723 goatslkns from 1,2J66,700 in 1965 to 8554,53l in 1972; and sheepskins from
!4.84,L)3 zin 1965 to 31L7,767 in 1972.  The pi-ces, though, have gone up dramatically
during the eight years under consideration.  Hides have risen fron Tsh 17.37/pc
in 1965 to Tsh 7.69/pc in 1972; and sheepsIcUns from Tsh 3.79/pc in 1965 to Tsh 4.31/pc
in 1972.  More recently, due to the slack demand occasioned by the recent world
recession, prices have declined and stocks have increased.  However, lhen the mission
visited Tanzania ir. late 1975, the stocks w'ere starting to move again, and demand
is exoected to strengthen as the world economy moves out from the recession.
6.        At Dresent, there is only one modern operating tannery.  This is the
Tanzania Tanneries Coroanv Ltd. (TTC) loceted in Moshi, established by NDC in
collaboration Lith a Saredish Conrany to produce finished chrome upper leather for
industrial footwear production in East Africa and semi-finished leather (crust-
tanned and *wet-blue) for exoort oversee . Tihere are two smaller tanneries, mostly
producing sole and lining leather using vegetable wattle.  Due to the decline of
craft-mride shoes and the competition from rubber and srnthetics as sole material,
these two tanneries have been eoneriencing substalntial difficulties.  The three
tanneries process about 20 nercent of the available hides and skins, the rest
being exported in the rawT state, salted or suspension-dried. The finished leather
produced at Moshi can be improved to meet international standards.  At present,
however, N-oshi does not produce a top qu lij leather.
7.        In order to develo,a the full otenr. . 'l of the leather tagimg industry,
INDC has, aside fror. the ePa.nsion progr'n  -?-' Io-shi (to double its present capacity
of processing l G,000 hid5as =nd 300.000 Kdna ;cnnull), initiated three other
maJor -orojects:
(a)   s+ .i'lh"vt- of thoe  o-nple7 .-t TIorogoro including a tannery
cam^ tblr of orocesz7j-  2, n   16 os  and 900,000 sldns annually;
. shoe factomni, part o:f ,oase -rv,uction wJould be 2 million
p.airs of leather shoes for ecoi;o_t  and ,  leather goods factory
to process 183,000 sq.;  of f-nishd Loather into leather
orodu&Cts u   va  ario u's I cin d
(b)  Establisihment of a new tnranori,y at NIvEsanza wi,th an annual through-
Put capacity of 360,000 h ies,
(c)  Thcaansion of Tanzania Shoe Comoany, Ltd. (BORA) from its
present ;7roduc',-a 800,000 -to 1,300,000 pairs of leather shoes
-?er yrenr for the doriesKL c market.
The chart exhibited Is IYcnduin 2 rhocinJ the projected situation in 1980 wdhen the
e.:-aansion and new     DrlwT  progr^.m cniOJd either ha3ve been conpleted or well underioay.



ANNEX 11-6
8.        Tanzanian cattile, sheep, and goats are reared free-ranging on open
scrub. Killing is generally sporadic and according to local need. As much as
40 percent of the hides and skins come from fallen animals. Flaying is still
crudely done generally and not yet carried out with sufficient attention to the
cormercial value of the hide or skin nor to theeffect of cutting damage on the
vralue of the leather products.  Drying is not always properlly carried out. Substances
are uneven and hide conformation is poor. Many of these problems can be improved
by educationzl programs in animal husbandry, and such training schemes are already
underway in Tanzania. Surface grain damage, however, such as pock, thorn, or
tick and disease marks are the result of natural causes and their eradication is
unlikely in thie near future.  One has to accept that there will be a relatively
low volume yield of top grade leathers from such raw material source in the short
terni.
9.       With sufficient technical training and modern machinery, Tanzanians should
be able to produce leather in the lower and middle grades for the international market.
Assuming that the right partner is chosen to provide the tanning expertise, Tanzania
should eventually progress to the stage where it can produce good export quality
finished leather, starting with wet-blue, and progressing to vegetable crust and chrome-
tanned leather, and, finally, to fully finished leather.
Leather, Leather Footwear,and Leather Goods
10.       Addendum 3 shows the trade figures in leather and leather products for
selected countries in 1970, 1973, and the first six months of 1974. In the first
half of 1974, leather inports in these countries amounted to US$570.5 million.
Even assuming that the entire leather output of Tanzania were to be exported,
(which wmld not be the case per the chart in Addendum 2), Tanzania's output vould
constitute at most 5   (probably no more than 3%) of the world's imports of leather.
Given the right marketing arrangements, Tanzan:a should be able to capture this
nortion of the %or-ld m,rket.
11.       Aiddendin '-. shows the apparent consurmtion 1/ of footwear of all types
in the OECD cotultries in 1972 end 1973. These countries account for roughly 500%
of the Li,000 million -:.irs i-^orld mrirket estimated b-y FRO. Addendurm 5 shows the
share o-f inrortE in the consumption of footwear with leather uppers in selected
OECI) countries.  The trend has been a general increase in the share of iuports
in the consu tion, reflecting the trend of locating footwear factories outside
of the develooed coulntries becaluse of increasingly prohibitive labor costs. Some
countries have doub)led their imports in the dec-de bett-een 1963 and 1973; others
have tripled and quadrupled.  In such a context, the projected output from Moro-
goro, 2 million pairs of leather footear for exports, wuld constitute a mere
2.5% of the total annual increase in the uorld market, estimated by FAQ to be 80
million pairs a year (or 2% of 4,000 million pairs). Again, with the right joint
venture partner- to n-rovide p)roduction and marketing expertise, disposing of 2 million
'pairs of leather shoes in the international world market should not prove to be
an overly amAbitioui -onlc
1           coinventonsption = -pnodesion iEpor s   expo  s.
inventoi,y chlanges.



12.       Addendtum 3 above has shown that the import market for leather goods
in the selected countries amounted to US$521.6 million for the first half of
1971). The leather goods factory would produce leather articles such as belts,
wallets, valises, etc., chiefly for the export markcets. Assiuming that all the
output were exported, the value of output of Morogoro leather gooad factuorv,
estimated at USSl.9 million, would constitute less than .)4 of the wOrld imDort
market in leather goods for the first half of 1974. If appropriate expertise is
provided so that the right styles and qualities are produced, there is no
reason why Tanzania cannot capture this portion of the world market.
Canvas, Canvas Goods, and Canvas Shoes
13.       Tanzania is the fourth largest cotton producer in Africa, after E1mnt,
Sudan and Uganda.  The total crop increased from 160 thousand bales in 1958
to 430 thousand bales in 1973.  1Host of the cotton is exported, only about 14-15/
of each year's crop is consumed dbmestically. Table 5 below shows the cotton
crop of Tanzania, the domestic constmDtion and the exports of cotton from 1958
to 1974.
Table 5-Cotton CroLof Tanzania, 1958-74
(thousand oI bales a/)
Year          Total           Used by Domestic Industry           Exported
1958           169                         -                        168
1959           203                         -                        195
1960           189                         -                        187
1961           168                         -                        171
1962           214                         -                        200
1963           263                                                  259
1964           293                         -                        295
1965           369                         _                        363
1966           436                        13                        423
1967           NA                         NA                        NA
1968           283                        30                        253
1969           386                        44                        342
1970           420                        53                        349
1971           363                        58                        226
1972            423                       60                        367
1973            430                       62                        368
1974b/         400                       63                         337
a7 l13l kg per bale.
_/ Estimated.
Source:  IBRD, Appraisal Report of the Msanza Textile Mill, Report No. 743 -TA.
1)4.      The oualit- of 2anzanian cotton falls into the medium-long catogo--
(11/32 - 1-3/32') hich is suitable to spin yarn up to 50 cotton counts. Ninety
nercent of the crop is so-called AR grade, Which is close to U.S. Ier=his
SI 1-1/16", and --rich sells in world markets at approximately 10% premium over
the price  of 11 staple.  The other 10i is BR grade which consists of shorter
fiber lengths and contsins over-ripe, ieaker fibers.  Its color is also inferior
and the trash content is 12.? as comoared to 7"  for the AR grade.  The BR grade
sells at a 25-35/6 discount below the .'R.



ANNEX l-f-8
15.       Most of the cotton in Tanzania is underspun, i.e. they could have
been used to produce higher count and finer yarn. Of the 63,000 bales used by
the domestic textile industry in 1973, only 3,000 bales were of the BR grade.
The canvas mill in Morogoro would use BR grade and cotton wastes as its basic
rarr material.
16.       Canvas is a heavy cloth used for a variety of purposes such as tents,
awnings, tarpaulins, boat covers, kit-bags, canvas shoes, etc.  The demand for
canvas shoes thus vary niith the level of military activities, construction and
tourism activities, and other factors, such as increased elementary school
enrollments, etc. Because of the durable nature of canvas and canvas goods,
these markets do not expand very rapidly and are subject to wide fluctuations
in demand. Nevertheless, there is on average a large market for canvas and canvas
goods in the lorld. Table 6 below tabulates the composite uses of industrial
cloth, mostly canvas, in the U.S. from 1968 to 1974. There is another category
Table 6  - COTTON INDUSTRIAL CLO0TH aEND-USE IN THE U.S.
(million kg)
1968                        43.0
1969                        36.4
1970                        35.O
1971                        33.6
1972                        32.8
1973                        34.7
1974                        32.5
a/ Includes awnings, boatcovers, tarpaulins, and tents.
Source:  Textile Organon, November 1974.
in the Textile Orianon statistics, whose consumption ranged between 42.0 and
52.7 million kg p.a. over 1968-1974 wbich must refer to canvas usage in the
military, among other large end-uses. Elven assuming that all of the 4,332 metric
tons of cotton p. a.  were converted  at Morogoro - into canvas wit1vi   waste and
exported to the United. States, it would only constitute 10-15% of the U. S.
market for canvas goods.
17.       The developed world's exports and imports of made-up canvas goods in
the periods 1969 to 1973 amounted to 20,000 metric tons. (Addendum 6 and 7). In
selected African and Middle East countries the imports of made-up canvas goods
amounted to 11,148 and 8,870 metric tons, respectively for 1969 and 1970. (Addendum
8).  With the on-going military activitiesin the Middle East and Africa, and the
tremendous boom of construction activity in the Middle East, the demand for canvas
and canvas goods should continue to be robust.
18.       But even if, for some reason, the international market for canvas and
canvas goods should decline, there is the possibility of transforming the cotton
into other heavy cloths such as denim, duck and drill. Table 7 below shows the
U.S. imports of duck from 1968-1974. If all these potential outlets prove limited,
the output from the Morogoro canvas mill can always be exported as yarn.



ANNEX 11-9
TABLE 7  _ UNITED STATES IMPORTS OF DUCK CLOTH 1968-1974
Year                   Quantity                    Value
0OOO sq. m.)               (UsT '000)
1968                   54,736                     14,334
1969                   71,924                     18,365
1970                   61,689                     17,437
1971                   65,811                     18,342
1972                   82,609                     26,915
1973                   70,961                     30,598
1974                   69,964                     44,089
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Schedule A Commodity by Country, FT135
-     (Washington, D.C., various years)
19.       The demand for canvas shoes in Tanzania has been estimated to be growing
at a rate as high as 15% by some sources. Even at a lower rate, say 8 to 10% p.a.,
there would be a large domestic market for the canvas footwear output of the
Morogoro footwear factory should the export market fail. But with a suitable
marketing arrangement, there is no reason for Tanzania not to be capable of
exporting a major portion of its production.
20.       Addendum 4 has show  the apparent consumption of footwear wholly or princi-
pally made of textile materials. The consumption was 443.3 and 466.6 million
pairs respectively for 1972 and 1973 in selected OECD countries. Addendum 9 shows
the rising trend of imports of selected OECD countries, implying that an increas-
ingly greater proportion of canvas shoes used in the developed countries are being
imported from the developing countries. Morogoro's canvas shoe output of 2
million pairs a year mould constitute at most .5 percent of the OECD market, and
even a smaller percentage of the total world market.
Conclusions
21.       From the above discussion, it can be concluded that Tanzania should have
no difficulty capturing adequate markets in leather, leather footwear, leather
goods, canvas, canvas goods, and canvas footwear provided the requisite technical
and marketing expertise can be secured. The outputs of the Morogoro Industrial
Complex would typically represent such small percentages of the world trade in
those commodities that given the right quality and product-mix, they should be
absorbed without any difficulty. The final product-mix and marketing strategy
will ultimately rest on the capabilities of the contracted marketing firm(s)
whose knowledge of world markets and distribution channels will be crucial to the
success or failure of the project.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMLEX
OUTPUT AND VALUE OF HIDES AND SKINS 1965-73
a!
Hides                   _                               Goat Skins                                            Sheep Skins
Yeer        lqu.ntity      Average pric  per Piece  Value                Quantity    _.erage 2Lce pr piece  Value             Quantity       Average price per piece    Value              Total Value
,000 piCC2S)          (Tch)            (Tsh '000)       (000 pieces)            (Tsh)            (Tsh '000)  (000 pieces)               (Tsh)              (Tsh '000         (Tsh *'000)
1965            1132                  17.37            19663              1267               5.56                 7045           484                 3.79                   1834               28542
1966            1100                 24.44             26884              1478               8.20                12120           667                 6.12                  4082               43p86
1967             947                 19.53             18495               920               6.87                 6320           662                 5.72                   3787               28602
1968            1058                 19.61             20747              1583              4.61                  7298           479                 5.16                   2472              30517
1969            1089                 21.93             23882              1514               5.70                 8630           636                 4.81                   3059               35571
1970             980                 22.33             21883               894              6.27                  5605           491                 3.76                   1846              29334
1971             912                 21.03             19179              1080              5.82                 6286            458                 3.52                   1612               27077
1972             997                 30.75             30658               855               7.69                6575            348                 4.71                   1639              38872
1973h/           875                 26.45             23144              1013              8.60                 8712            530                 4.70                   2491              34347
a/ Wet-salted and suspension dried.
Based on six-month avcrage.  7cr hide_. -.1         sperzirn drice hides included.
Source: lACP survey.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977
0



ANNEX 11-11
TA11LX                                                             Addendum 2
ma          INM0IMT3L CUrL X
LUTUK UID LMM !_   tWUCSS iTOUITE! IN Y1114   1W
HIDUS AIM JKINS
00 3T                                 LEATHER PNOWUCS
(110  0)                               (NO.a)                                              (Sq    000)
(Pairs '000)
Hi0                                        Finibed Leather         418. 5                   BORA        1I00
KItES      15                                                                      1t
_SKIS                          60 S_ttFidlhad Leather    07. 8                                               ROG0RO     POo
Li~~~~~i
iStdh LF ather          139.5 O3i                              400
8in5 S_-Piei,hed Leather   539 5
LIATHI OODS
(Sq.0 '000)
U1 ?8       tatekd Loother         651,0
SKINS                              U188e                                                   -----------------06.
KI        P FiuiShOd Leather       41'.5
-18  |  _  |            n     I,t _e  Leether           697. 5
SKIN ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ t9                     ZIK
OmS"l          FtIXI D        sm-FIRIFY8          SHOES                L ATHIlR GOODS
ST8l          LW,tSIS
1674.0            2165            1OOGOO                866000 Sq..-
Pair.
Source: Athins Planting, Sxaor? lHarksSe for TaUCaRian Leather and Leather Product., (8urrly, U.K., Rwrmbr 1975)
Tnc1ustrial. Proiects Department
February 1977



Annex 31-12
Addendlum 3
I' ;hAN IA
MCtCGOR0 I)_SUSTRIAL COMPLEX
TRADE STATPI',,CS ON VI;A'Il!:R AND iYA11TR GOOOS OF SEU(t1 -:P'9'TR 15
Product                   1970                                      1973                                     197, _
Country                  Classificationr        Imports    Exports                      Imports      Exports                    iorar         cXDLr
(US$  millions)                           (US$ millions)                        (L,$ idlleJ,I)
Austria                     Leather               16.2         8.6                       .i.a.          n.a.                      15.5           7.5
1,erther Goods       10.4         8.6                       n.a.           n.a.                       17.0          9.1
Belgium-                    leether               18.2        28.2                       37.7          42.3                       21.6          23.5
Luxemboarg                  L- rlher Goods        17.3        13.3                       41.1          22.2                       24.8          1?.7
Canada                      Loacher               n.a.        n.a.                       47.1           11.9                      29.7          4.9
Lc.ather Goods       n.a.        n.a.                       42.5           10.6                      25.4           4.7
France                      LcaFhnr               n.a.        n.a.                      126.9          181.2                      61.3         92.7
leather Goods        n.a.        n.a.                       46.7           56.3                      31.6          22.5
13est Cermany                Lzather             109.5        68,2                      227.6          122.9                     102.9          62.7
Leather Goods        57.2        61.5                      131.3          108.3                       73.4         59.0
Greece                      Leather              n.e.         n.a.                       n.a.           n.a.                       1.5         28.8
Leather Goods       n.a.         n.a.                       n.a.           n.a.                         .5          1.3
Japan/                      Leather              n.a.         n.a.                       48.1           66.9                      19.0         32.4
Leather Goods       n.a.         n.a.                        52.4          77.0                      31.0          27.4
taly                       LTeather   -          p2.7 _        3,2                      352.8         227.8                       89.2         57.1
Leather Goods       n.a.         n.a.                       n.s.           n.a.                       8.3          87.8
Netherlands                 Leatner              22.2          6.4                       57.3           56.2                      28.3          23.6
Leather Coods       21.3         13.8                       34.4           28.7                      18.4          11.3
Portugal                    Leather              n.a.         n.a.                       n.a.           n.a.                       1.4           1.4
Leather Coods       n.a.         n.a.                       n.a.           n.a.                         .4          1.2
Norway                      Leather              4.9          2.6                        13.0           6.1                        6.0           3.4
Leather roods       8.3           .6                         14.1          1.0                        8.0            .6
Swcden                      Leather             17.3         13.7                        29.5          24.7                       15.3         11.8
Leatther Goods     14.8          5.9                        23.0           8.7                       13.3          4.4
Denmark                     Leether             13.5          3.9                        31.0           8.9                       14.3          4.7
Leather Goods       6.6          6.2                         12.6         10.2                        8.7           5.9
Finland                     Leather              8.7           .6                        19.2           1.3                        8.6           t.1
Leather Goods       2.9          1.9                          5.d          5.1                        3.2           3.3
Spsin                       Leather              n.a.         n.a.                       n.a.           n.&.                      10.9          17.5
Leather Goods       n.a.         p.a.                       n.a.           n.a.                       2.5          i7.9
Sfwtrzerland                Teather             21.9          5.2                        32.1           6.6                       11.8           3.4
Leather Goods      27.4          4.0                         51.7          9.3                       27.5           4.9
United Kingdom               Leather            S8,3         73.8                       114.7         120.4                       54.0          68.0
Leather Goods      18.3         28.0                        45.5          34.0                       29.6         37.6
U.S.A.                      7L-ther             n.a.         n.e.                       137.3          83.5                       59.4          46.1
Leather Coeds      n.a.         n.a.                       256.4          33.4                      190.9          27.5
Yugoslavia                   Leather            16.1         13.6                       n.a.           n.a.                       16.3           7.6
Leather Goods       3.8          3.8                       n.a.           n.a.                        7.1           4.4
n.a.   not available.
../ ]eatler goois are leather goods aside irto  tihore rel8ted to footwear.
b/ rnta tor 1974 based on average of first tlhrce twnths' daLa.
C/ Data lor 1973 based oni he'ra5a of first :ix ;uonths' data.
Sourc,:  Atkins Planring, Ixport Markets fir Tanyanian LUatl,e Ard Lcetlc- _Pr:dtt  (Surrey, U.:. roverber 1975)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANlA
14OROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
a/
e..PPARENT CONSUMPTION OF FOOTWEAR IN THE OECD IN 1972 AND 1973
(million pairs)
Footwear with Leather          Slippers and Other          Foptwcar Whollv or                Rubber
Uppers                   House Shoes                  rincipaliy of                Footwear
Textile M4aterials
Countries                           1972         1973            1972          1973          1973          1973         1972          1973
Germany                            171.2         153.5           36.3          33.4          28.5          28.0          6.1          n.a.
BLEU                                 21.1          19 8          10.0           8.2           5.6           4.0          1 4          1.2
Denmark                              7.2            6 1           1.2           1.4           3.0           1 5          2.0          1.6
France'                             84.1           76.2          64,3          62.0          34.9          27.7          8.4          5 4
Ireland                              5 7            5 0           1.2           1.1          n.s.            .5          n.a.         n-a.
Italy                              102.1         102.6            6i1           6.5          n.a.           8.3          n.a.         n.a.
Netherlands                          25.8          23.8           6.3           5.9          n.a.           n.a.         n.a          n.a.
United Kingdom                     105 7          93.4          40.6          43.1           36.3          29.2          n.a          1.5
Total E.E.C.                  522.9         480 4         166.0         161.6         108.3           99.2          n.a.         na.
Austria                              10.8          10.4           3.4           3.6           2 6           2 9          n.a          n.a.
Spain                               36.5           66 1          11 0          22 3          32 6          27.1         17.9          9 1
Finland                               6.4           6.8           1.3           1.5           1 6           2.4          2 4          3 0
Greece b/
Norway                                7.3           7.1           1 1           1.3           1.8           2 0          n.a.         n.a
Portugal                              7 8           7 9           3.a.          n.a.           .3             .2         1 6          4 5
Sweden                              14.9           11 7           4.8           5 5           3 6           3.6          4.0          3 2
Switzerland                         17.0           14.4           n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          n.a          n a s        n.
Turkey  b/                                                         I
Total Other European OECD   100.7           124 4          21 6           34.2          42.5          38 2          n.a          r-a
countries
United States                       559.6         515.2          98.7          98.5         226.0         241.5          n.a          n.a.
Canada                               39.5          37.6          13.5          13.8          n.a.           n.a.        10.8          7.5
Japan                                39.4          42.1           n.a.          n.a.         66.5          86.5         13 2          n.a.
Australia                             n.a.          n.a.          n.s.          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n,a           n.a.
New Zealand                                         5.6                         n.a.         _              1.2                       n.6
Total OECD                   1262.1        1205 3          299 8         308.1         443.3         4b6.6          n a.         n.a
n.a. - not available
a/ Apparent consumption enuals production plus imports minus exports and therrfore takes no account of variations in stocks.
b/ No data given.
Source:  OECD, The Footweer, Rawhides and Skins and Leather industry in OECD Countries, 1973/74 (Paris, 1975)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 11-14
Addewim 5
TANiZAfIA
IOROGCO 21jnUSTJRS I COIPLEX
S.,.Z OP P_I.-TVS TI  CO1' '7TIOIi OF
l9e:6                            C 03  L  UTRIES
- ill percen.tagesj
CouMj. ,'              1963            1972              1973
Gerrz~j..;.             114             43                45
BLEU                    35              72                74
Denv.n'rk               19              60                80
l?ance                   4              18                17
ireland                  -              31                35
Unit&i  i:n-dorn         8              20                19
Netbherlands            19              64                63
Aust.ria                 7              38       -        42 
F T.hT h                10ar            3.6               25
Norwa        .y  214                    66                67
t> e d.j)              35               78               74
31              61               6h
7              1.               17
Uni.+t   t.si 2W                                          27
,.:-7+'<.,rc *as t{,;L of 19968.
fo F,nJi UnL t-et -ti  do nct nt>c: sarily correspond with those of
Ul .8  Crtr t oi Coi7 .rce fi.gUnx.(   due to difL."rent daata sources and
cKiaEF-,ica-Lic-rx;t-:odolooles.      Vl :. *'ecxr Though that frorm either
thne.e or i.ne (C,r-^marce Dcpir'tmcnt's 1-ioures that imports as a percentage
or Co3-'r!rmptl.on has bcen oi1 t,he ri,s-t~
fiOR;  : (?'>5? ', Fott-AeY.l1-;l.es nr:vl Sk!Or, ancl T.ea-thJir  'Inutyi
Industrial Projects Department
February 2977



TANZANIA
1MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
EXPORTS OF MADE-UP CANVAS GOODS
BY DEVE-LOPED COUNTRIES  1969-1973
1969                  1970                   1971                1972                  1973
Country                    weight       1alue      Weight   rValue        veight    Value     Wcei ght   Value    weIg.at     Val
(rn.t )    `LS$'000)   (m t )  (LS$'000)   (m t )  (US$'000)   (in. t ) (US$'000)  (m t.)   (US$'
U.S.                        1,231       3,053        635      1,988        822      3,151        719    2,145       1,263      4,C'
Belgium-Luxemburg             531       1,225        521      1,212        435      1,06-        699    1.510         564      2,4w
France                      3,881       8,450      4,762    10,789       4,/ 43    11 951      6,048   18,527       5,521    21,'-2
GSermany Federal            1,515       3,400      1,648      4,386      1.556      4,601      2,151    6,776       2,056      8,59u
Italy                         186         497        178        510        101        361        140       453        147        517
Netherlands                   881       2,374        933      2,486        929      2,483      1,129    3,080       1,693      6,181
U.K.                        2,06S       4,163      2,181      4,470      1,675      4,138      1,184    4,394       1,136      4,045
Dermark                       793       2 203      1,108      3,369      1,176      3,871      1,451    5,576       1,166     5,971
'iorsJavi                      55         170         49        154   --   61         2i5         83       413        114        675
Yu;oslavia                  1,274       2,165        920      1,671        709      1,429        403    1,086          99        356
Sweden                      1,121       1,958      1,143      2,267        700      2,092        396    1,354         409      1,899
Austria                     1,110       1,799        858      1,416        801      1,599      1,131    2.632         618
Pottual                       178         289        149        242        204        3811       1;8       311        152
Switzdvland                    10          51         13         74         32        203         25       182         31        2
Fir;land                      144         335        183        386        140        377        349    1,101         172        6
Auatralia                       -         189          -        722          -        361          -       567          -        9
Japan                       3,841       6,527        469        795      6,183    11,652       6,101   14,321       5,021    16,0' .
Israel                           -          -         25         80         63        204        600       296         75        24
I reland                              -          -     -     -               -        209          -       215        252        604
Nexz Zealand                                           -          -        _           81          _       166          -        2'
Total                        38,848                44,473                50 429               65 105                77,73 -
Sc'lrce:  Wrld Trade Annual, 1969-1973 (New York: Un-ited Natigns Statistical Officc)
Industrial Projects Departmnent
February 1977



TAN ZANTA
MO]'OGORO INDUSTY IAL CMT=LEX
I,P,OR'i'S OF MADE-UP CANVAS  GOODS
BY DEVELOPED COUNTRIES  1969-L973
1969                     1970                      1971                      1972                       1973
Country
Weight          VAlue    Weight           Value    Weight          Value   . eei ght         Value    Weight           Value
(m.t )      (US$tooo)    (m.t.)       (US$'000)   (a.t )        (US$'000)    (mr t >      (US$1000)    (rn.t.)      (Us$'O00)
CAnads                               -        1 035             -       1)238            -       1 618             -       3 695             -       4.339
Be1uium-Luxemburg                  799        1.711          782        1 661        1 008        2 211       1 110         7 995       1 135        3 870,
Fr-.-nce                           693        1,156          856        1 579          674       1 377        1.2?'         2,368        1 519        3 902
Ge-rTmny Federal                3,634         6 299        3 712        6 981       4 165        8 040        4 336        9 689        4,054       11 226
1 t.- *V                        1 017         2 0)9        1 573        3 283        2 198       4 775        9 850        7,645        3 652       12 168
N-:ther1ands                    1.7191        3 403        1 830        3 619        1 805        3 807        2 5,6       5 859         2 266      - 6 686
U K                             1 60?         3 015        1 971        3 933        2 446       5 401        2 6S8        7 198        2 177        7 034
PeruTmerk                         424           904          533        1 21h          373          787          16b          4S1         465        1 4,70
No rway                            797        1,912          947        ? 164          943        2 444          779        2 326          9u3       3 280
1 131         2 496       1 345        3 187          911        2 415          7, 4       2.608          855        3 508
Ailt                               217          453          217          470          308          821          341          911         424        1.350
Switzerland                       552         1 454          636        1 755          642       2 036           769       2.804           780       3 606
Ireland                           120           233          154          307          ?00          332          [89          296          254          567
Greece                              30           69             -           -           32           73          148          121           46          136
Finland                            217          465          260          562          224          557          145          522          163          625
Yuaoslevia                         325           734         762          558          308          738          373          828           82          1 7
Australia                            -          502             -         639            -       1 042             -          650            -       3 506
Israel                               -             -          14          105            -            -            7           62           22          100
Spr.in                               -                        41           76           33           73           45           91          0l5          205
Ja au                                _      -                   -           -           79           80           73          116           88          631
Iceland                              -             _           -            -           28           51            -            -            -
Portugal                                           -            -                                                 1 '9                      23      __  21
Total                         27 870                    33 303                   38 678                    52 324          68 t0. I
Source:  World Tr.^de Annual  1969-1973 (New York: United NAtions Statistical Office)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 11-17
Addenru.Ri -d
TANZANIA
MOROGORO ThDUSTRIAL COS'LEX
IMPORTS OF CANVAS GOODS BY SELECTED
AFRICAN AND MIDDLE EASTERN COUNTRIES, 1969-70
Quantity
(m. t.)
Country                1969                 1970
Saudi Arabia                 3,923                  305
Kinzai t                        700                  700
Jordan                        1,000                 400
Algeria                       2,000                3,000
Syria                           500                  500
Somalia                         300                  275
Lebanon                         500                  400
Nigeria                         200                1,000
Ethiopia                        250                  300
Libya                           250                  300
Sudn                            250                  '250
l4orc~-o                        300                  300
Zambi.                          125                  100
Ghana                           250                  250
Malawi                          100                  100
Ugarnda                         200                  250
Kenya                           3                  35
To ta]:                                 B.R -  8,o7
So!urce.e  -LA   Estimates Derived from UN: Yearbook of International Thade Statisticss
19l0l-71.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 11-18
AdIdendum. 9
TANZJZATA
1DROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
SHARE OF TIPORTS IN CONSTMIrTION OF FOOTWEAR
WHO.[LY OR CHIEFLY OF TEXTILE TATERIALS
IN SELECTED OECD COUNiTRIES_ 1973
Courn$          Consumtion          Imports            Imports as % of
(million pairs)   (million pairs)        Consumption
Grerminy            28.0              19.7                   70.4
BLEU                 4.0               4.0                  100.0
Denmark              1.5               1.5                  100.0
France              27.7              10.9                   39.4
Italy                8.3               4.2                   50.6
Ulnitied Kingdom    29.2              24.3                   83.2
Austria              2.9               1.5                   51.7
Spa-in              27.1               1.4                    5.2
KTin:Land            2.4                .7                   29.2
Yor;iay              2.0               1.3                   65.0
Swel.er              3.6               3.0                   83.3
United 3L ate s    21t1l5             98.0                   40.6
Tapan               86.5              158                   18.3
Sour'ce: OFCD, The Footw-nr Raw Hides and Skins, and 1-ather Induarin
OECD Countr:ies. jLLY793'',C i(aris,l 971
InduLtrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 12-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
NDC PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
1.        The Project Manager nominated by NDC is a staff member, Mr. Adam 0.
Ng'amilo, whose qualifications are given below:
Curriculum Vitae - Mr. A. 0. Ng'aimilo
Name:               Adam Oswald Ng'amilo
Age:                 31 years
Marital Status:     Married with two children
Nationality:         Tanzanian
Education:  (i)     B.A. (Economics) University of
East Africa, Dar es Salaam
(ii)    Diploma in Industrial Management
(Delft Institute of Management,
Holland)
(iii)   Fellow of EDI - Washington World Bank
Experience:  1970 - to date
Immediately after graduating, joined the National Development Corporation of
Tanzania as Assistant Development Officer; promoted to Development Officer after
one year and Senior Development Officer in 1973. Present appointment as Deputy
Director became effective in 1975. Throughout stay with NDC, has been attached
to the Research and Development Department which is responsible for development
of new industrial projects from conception to commissioning. Specific duties
are listed below:
(a) Preparation and Implementation of New Projects
(i)    Seek out and define opportunities for new development projects
within agreed development priorities.
(ii)   Initiate, schedule and carry out the evaluation of projects to
establish their feasibility, costs, benefits and degree of priority
to the economy. Recommend and present project proposals to the NDC
Board.
(iii)  Recommend to the Director implementation schedules for approved
projects.
(iv)  Identify, contact and negotiate with potential partners, advisers,
agents, consulting engineers and contractors.



ANIEX 12-2
-2
(v)    Participate in negotiations for raising funds for
development projects from major financial institutions.
(vi)   Review regularly progress on the implementation of
projects, ensure corrective action is taken to meet
planned perfonmance, and secure approval of major
adjustments to plans.
(vii)   Arrange for orderly and timely transfer of
responsibilities for supervision of projects to the
Operations Department in accordance with agreed
procedures.
(b)  After the projects are implemented and a full management of the
company is formed, a post investment audit is prepared. This
includes:
(i)    Original work plan and cash flow schedule.
(ii)   Survey of progress to-date including activities com-
pleted, problems encountered, methods used to resolve
them, and effect of problems on the time and cost of
implementation.
(iii)  Decisions recommended by the implementation team
including:
- contracts for approval
- changes in significant features of the project
- actions required to resolve any outstanding
problems.
Projects implemented include a steel roUling mill,
a distillery plant, a farm implement plant, a
tannery and a bicycle factory.
2.        Mr. Ng'amilo will head the project staff as shown in the attached
organization chart.
1ndu-tr    Tlrc- ects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDIJSTRIAL COMPLEX
1/
NDC PROJECT MANAGEMENT - ORGANIZATION CHART
SUPPORT FROM RJD                                                                                                            SUPPORT FROM N D C
N.D C
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH                                                                                    MANAGING DIRECTOR
AND DEVELOPMENT                                                                       INDIRECTLY       DIRECTOR PLANNING AND FINANCE
PROJECT  MANAGER         __                  CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
DIRECTOR OF ADMINISTRATtON
DIRECTOR OF MANPOWER
ENGINEERING ANDD
CONSTRUCTION COORDINATOR _
AND 3 DRAUGH TSME N
INVESTMENT ANALYST                    SENIOR  PROJECT           ADMINISTRATIVE             PROJECT
__OFFICER                  MANAGER                   ACCOUNTANT
3 PROJECT OFFICERS        SECRETARIAL
SHOE &LEATHER GOODS       STAFF
CANVAS MILL
INDUSTRrAL ESTATE
RESPONSIBILITIES
RESPONSIBILITIES          RESPONSIBILITIES          FINANCIAL TRANSACTION
PROJECT SUPERVISION       ALL ADMINISTRATIVE        TIME BUDGETS
L IMPLEMENTATION          MATTERS                   COST CONTROL
Source: NDC
i/ Headquarters staff.  The field staff will consist of supervising engineer and a works accountant when cons-
trvction starts.
Industrial Projects Departznent
February 1977



A2NEX 13
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL CaMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE CCMPONENT - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
Tsh ('t0O)                     u$ ('000)
Local   Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total       %
I.  Infrastructure        9,070.9  11,150.6  20,221.5   1.092.9   1,343.4  2?436.3   48.0
-site preparation       9933.7       Y  73  325.      11907       39.9      53.i
-roads & drainage     4,345.2   1,086.3   5,431.5      523.5     130.9     654.4    12.9
-water supply         1,270.5   2,964.5   4,235.0      153.1     357.2     510.3   10.1
-power supply           307.5   1,742.5   2,05000       37.1     209.9    247.0      4.9
-sewerage             2,154.0   5,026.0   7,180.0    25905       605.5     865.0    17.0
II.  Superstructure     9    345. 7   8 4818  17 827 5  1,126.0   1 021 9   2 147.9    4203
-standard factories   4,752.o  -3, B.o0                572.5             1,041.0    20.5
-housing              4,593.7   4,593.8   9,187.5     553.5      553.5  1,106.9    21.8
III.  Site Equipment           60.0     240.0     300.0        7.4      29.4      36.8     007
IV.  Consulting & J$a4  e-
Serv.10)!              951.2   2.853.7   3,804.9      114.6    343.8         .4     2.0
Base Cost         19,427.8  22,72601  42,153.9   2,340.7   2,73801   5,078.8   100.0
V. Contingencies
-Physical (10%)       1,942.8   2,272.6   4,215.4      234,1     273.8     507.9    1000
-Price Escal. (37%) 7,806.3   9,350.3  17,156.6       940.5  1,126.5  2,067.0    4007
Installed Cost    29,176.9  34,349.0  63,525.9   3,515.3   4,138.4  7,653.7   15007
VI. Interest During Con-
struction            1,919.3  13,410.9  15,330.2      231.2  1,61508   1,847.0    36.4
Total Financing   31,096.2  47,759.9  78,856.1   3,746.5   5,754.2   9,500.7  18701
Percentage (%)      39.4%     60.6%     100%      3904%      60.6%     100%
1/ Estimated at 10% of infrastructure and superstructure costs, and divided into local and
foreign components in the proportion of 25:75,
Z/ Composite factor calcuJ ted as shown in Annex 16,
Industrial Projects Departnent
7~' --ar- 1977



TANZANIA                      ANNEX 14
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY COMPONENT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE-/
Tsh ('000)                                US$('000)                  7 of
Local     Foreign-/  Total                Local    Foreign       Total       BCE
I. Equipment
Leather Shoe Plant
Upper Cutting Machines               -         3,386    3,386                   -          408        408
Upper Closing Machines               -         4,548    4,548                   -          548        548
Bottom Cutting Machines              -         3,171    3,171                   -          382        382
Lasting and Finishing Machines    -           10,466   10,466                   -       1,261      1,261
Other Various Machines               -           340       340                  -           41         41
Transport and Storage                -         3,835    3,835                   -          462        462
Canvas Shoe Plant
Canvas Shoe Plant-/                  -        6,673    6,673                    -         804        804
PVC Injection Machines               -         3,204    3,204                   -          386        386
Other Machinery
Model Room Machines                  -           133       133                  -           16         16
Workshop                             -           100       100                  -           12         12
Laboratory                           -            91        91                  -           11         11
Electrical Equipment                   -         1,303    1,303                   -          157        157
Inland Freight                        58            -         58                   7          -           7
Erection and Installation          1,793         1,038    2,831                  216         125        341
Miscellaneous Expenses               116           125       241                  14          15         29
1,967        38,413   40,380                  237      4,628      4,865      45.2
II. Other Assets
Furniture and Fixtures               224           100       324                  27          12         39
Office Equipment                      50           183       233                   6          22         28
Vehicles                             332         1,328    1,660                   40         160        200
Preproduction & Setup Expenses  1,038            3,113    4,151                  125         375        500
1,644         4,724    6,368                  198         569        767       7.1
III. Civil Works
Pattern Making and Laboratory        116           145       261                  14          17         31
Leather Shoe Department           3,893          4,768    8,661                 469          574      1,043
Canvas Shoe Department             1,419         1,741    3,160                  171         21t0       381
Ancillaries                        1,436         1,756    3,192                  173         212        385
Godowns                            3,237         3,963    7,200                  390         477        867
Water Supply Tanks                    58            67       125                   7           8         15
Fences                                58            75       133                   7           9         16
10,217        12,515   22,732                1,231       1,507      2,738      25.5
IV. Consulting & Engineering
Services d/        2,407         14,210   16,617                 290       1,712      2,002      18.6
V. Training                               689         2,490    3,179                   83         300        383       3.6
Base Cost Estimate            16,924         72,352   89,276               2,049       8,706    10,755    100.0
VI. Contingencies
Physical                             847         3,619    4,466                  102         436        538
Price Escalatione/                6,516         27,697   34,213                  785       3,337      4,122
Installed Cost                24,267       103,666  12,955                 2,936      12,479    15,415    143.3
VII. Net Working Capita f/               38,612        29,266   67,878                4,652       3,526      8,178
VIII. Capitalized Interest                 6,192         11,479   17,671                 746       1,383      2,129
Total Financing Required    69,091         144,413  213,504t               8,334      17,388    25,722
% of Total                   32.4            67.6    100.0                32.4        67.6      100.0
a/ Assumes an exchange rate of US$1 = Tsh 8.3.
b/  The foreign exchange components of local purchases are assumed as follows:
i)  Office equipment and vehicles - 80%
ii)  Furniture and fixtures - 30%
(iii)  Preproduction and set-up expenses - 75%
( iv)  Civil Works - 55%
(  v)  Erection and installation charges as detailed in the feasibility study.
c|  Including compounding, cutting, closing, and vulcanizing machinery.
d/  Includes 6% of equipment and civil works for project engineering and $1.5 million for
management and marketing.
e/  For equipment, other assets, training, and consulting and engineering services, a price
escalation of 36% has been assumed; for civil works 377%. See Annex 16.
f/  See Annex 17
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPILX
LEATFER GOODS FACTORY COIMPONENT - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE-/
Tsh ('000)                   US$('OOO)
Local   Fore' v/ Total    Local    Foreign   Total    PCh
I. Equipmellt
Imported Equipment              -        971       971        _         117      117
Local Equipmer.t, Inland        66        -         66         8         -         8
Freight, and Miscella-
neouis Expenses
Erection and Installation       -        100       100        -          12       12
166    ,071.    1,137            129      137    77.0
II. Other Assets
Furniture and Fixtures          17         8        25         2          1         3
Office Equipment                 8        42        50         1          5        6
Vehicles                        25        91       116         3         11       14
Preproduction & Start-up
Expenses                      17        25        42         2          3
67     T1,6       233         T         20        28    15.7
IlI. Consulting and Engineering
ServicesE/      8       100      108         1         12        13      7-3
.;.ase Cost Estimate          m4i    1,337    1,078        17        i61       i78   1O.C 
IV. Contingencles
Physical (5%)                    8        66        74         1          8        9
Price Escalation                50       540       590         6         65       71
Installed Cost               1    99 i,9h3   -2,2   -24              234       2      11.44.9
V. Net Working Capital            4,283    1,220    5,503         516        147       663
VI. Capitalized Interest              299       548      847        36         66    1102
Total Financing Required   4,781    3,711    8,492           576        447    1,023
% of Total          5623      43.6    100.0       56,3      143-6    100.0
a! Assumes US$1 = Tsh 8.3.
b/ The foreign exchange component of local purchases has been assumed as follows:
( i) Office equipment and vehicles - 80%
( ii) Furniture and Fixtures - 30%
(iii)  Preproduction and start-up expenses - 60%
c/ Assuned to be 8% of equipment.  The foreign exchange component is assumed
to be 85%.
d/ See Annex lb
e/ See Annex 7iY.
Industrial Projects Department



ANNEX 1
TANZA N I
MIOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COIMPIEX
CALCULATION OF PRICE ESCALATION FACTORS
1.        In calculating the price escalation factors, Bank CPS guidelines
on anticipated inflation rates for equipment and civil wo:'ks have been fol-
lowed:
A. Assumed Price Escalation for Equipment
International         Compound
Fiscal Year      Inflation Rate      Inflation Rate
1/
1975/76                12                  6-/
197 /77                 9                 1f
1977/78                 8                 25
1978/79                 8                 35
.  Assumed Price Escalation for Civil Works
International          Compound
Fiscal Year    Inflation Rate       Inflation Rate
1975/76               14                   7
1976/77               13                 21
1977/78               12                 36
1978/79               12                 52
2.        As the industrial estate, canvas mill and the shoe factory will be imple-
nented in parallel within the sanLe time frame, it is anticipated that they will
have similar expenditure patterns. The weighted escalation factors have been
calculat..d as follows, taking into account their expenditure patterns: equip-
ment, 3("; civil works, I?7.  Tne leather goods factory, on the other hand,
has a different implementation schedule and the weighted escalation factor for
equipment has been calculated at 3t*.  (Civil works for the leather goods
factory will be provided by the industrial estate and are not chargeable to
the leather goods factory except as rent on occupied factory space).
1/ Corresponds to inflation during first half of calendar 1976 applied to base
prices at end-1975.
Industrial Projects Department
FeL,,ruar-c    "



TANZANIA
ANNEX 17?
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
WORKING CAPITAL ESTIMATES
Estimates of permanent working capital for the footwear and leather
goods factory appear in the tables below. Working capital amounts to 4.3
months of production cost of the footwear factory and 3.5 months for the
leather goods factory.
Table 1: Footwear Factory - Net Permanent Working Capital
Amount-'
(us$ '000)
1. Raw Materials
Local (3 mo)                                                        1,890
Imported (6 mo)                                                     3,623
2. Stores
Maintenance Parts and Materials (12 mo)                               500
Miscellaneous (6 mo)                                                  200
3. Salaries and Wages (1 mo)                                               200
4. Gioods in Process (1 mo)                                              1,000
5. Receivables (1 mo)                                                    1.000
6. Layables (1.5 times receivables)                                     (1,500)
7. Short-term Credits from Banks                                        (1,000,
8. Cash                                                                    100
Total (in late 1975 prices)         2/ 6,013
Escalated Permanent lWorking CapitaT 8,178
Ta'-le 2: Leather Goods Factory - Net Permanenit W'orking Capital
1/
Amount-
(US$ 'ooo)
1. Raw Materials
Local (3 mo)                                                          236
Irported (6 mo)                                                       163
2. Stores
NTairtenance (1-2 mo)                                                  50
Miscellaneous (6 mo)                                                   20
3. Salaries and Wages (1 mo)                                                30
h. Goods in Process (0 mno)                                                120
eceivables (1 mo)                                                         120
6. Payables (I.5 tLmes receivables)                                       (180)
7. Short-Term Credits from Bank                                            (8L1)
8. Cash                                                                     20
Total (in late 1975 prices             9
Escalated Working Capital             663
1/ Assumes US$1.00 = Tsh 8.30.
2/ Escalation factor assumed to be ,60 for the footwear factory and 34% for the
leather goods factory.
Industrial Projects Dppartment
FeLritary 1977



ANNEX 18
TANZANIA
MDROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
AVERAGE QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT - IBRD LDAN
(TJS.$ 000)
Industrial    Shoe       Leather Goods    Consolidated    Cumulative
Calendar Year   Quarter    Estate       Factory      Factory            Project       Disbursement
1978-         1st         300        1,000            -            1,300             1,300
2nd        300        1,000           200            1,500             2,800
3rd        450        1,500           200            2,150             4,950
4th        450        1,500           200            2,150             7,100
1979          1st         650       1,500             -            2,150             9,250
2nd        650        1,500            -            2,150            11,400
3rd        500        1,500            -            2,000             13,400
4th        500        1,500            -             2,000            15,400
1980          1st         45n        1,000            -            1,450           1j,8'80
2nd        450        1,000            -             1,450            18,300
3rd        400          500            -               900            19,200
4th        400          500            -               900            20,100
1981          1st         300          250                           550            20,650
2nd        300          250                            550            21,200
3rd        200          200            -               400            21,600
4th        200          200            -               400            22,000
1982          1st          -           125            -              125            22,125
2nd         -           125            -               125            22,250
3rd         -           125            -               125            22,375
4th         -           125!           -               125            22,500
1983          1st          -           125            -              125            22,625
2nd         -           125            -               125            22,750
3rd         -           125            -               125            22,875
4th         -           125            -               125            23.000
Total            6,500       15,900           600           23,000
1/ Expenditures incurred prior to first quarter of 1978 are not significant.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977                                    1978                                   1979                                     1980
J F IMIAIM I J I J A S  O ND J FMAM  J JAS ND JFMA MI J JAlSON ID J IFMAM  J JA S ON ID
1. Seletion of Consultants
(a) IndustrIal Estate
(b.  Fo.twea. Factory
(c) Leather Goods Factory
2.  Detailed Engineering
(a) Indlustral Estate
(b) Footwear Factory
Ic) Leather Goods Factory
3. Proc..rement2
Ia) In dastrial Estate                                                             mm
(b) Footwear Factory
)c) Leather Goods Factory
4.  Construction
1'    3/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
(a) Industrial Estate Inf-ant-ature-
(b) Footwear Factory
(c) Leather Goods Fatctry -/
5.  Equipment Installation 6
(a) Industrial Estate
(Is) Footwear Factory
)c) Leather Goods Factory                                                                                                    ILL
6'Training
(a) Ir,dustrial Estate
(bI Footwear FactoryEl(oJn   91
(c) Leather Goods Factory
7/
7. Start Up-
(a) Industrial Estate
(b) Footwear FaCtory
)c) Leather Goods Factory                                                                                                                              *..um
More detailed schedaling. asing "PERT" or "Critical Path" techtniqaes will be prepared during                   "'Will occupy first standr,c.d factory building scheduled to be ready by third quarter of 1976.
th. detailed engine.,ing desig,,.                                                     1,,~~~~~~~~~~~~Iclades installation of atilities anid machines, (ally connected.
Frocarement inclades tendering, selection, ordering and shipment of goods to Morgoro.                           I
3/                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Assamed p-oductio0n of the Footwear Factory and Leather Goods Factory
In,frastratare includes fencing, roadwork and drainage, sewerage, power, water.                                   is 60% in first year of operation, 80%. in the second year, 90% in 3rd and
Saperstructure includes standard factory baildings and hou-mg.                                                     sulbsequent years.
Industrial Proiects Department                                                                                                                                                                                   hWorld Bunk-i 7076
February 1977



ANNE1C 20-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, 1977-1998
1.        Government-owned industrial estates, even in market economies,
function primarily as catalysts of industrial development. They are located
and operated to achieve specific regional development objectives. Profits,
as such, are secondary. Notwithstanding, well-managed estates can generate
a suitable return on the resources invested while providing sites and services
at prices under those that would prevail if profit maximization were the goal.
The benefits of efficient large-scale development of infrastructure are, in
effect, shared between the estate and the occupant factories. These concepts
will be applied in Morogoro. Rents have been set for the industrial estate
to yield an acceptable financial return and to foster rational economic de-
velopment. By sharing the benefits of efficient infrastructure development, the
estate will attract industries which otherwise might "go-it-alone" at higher
financial and economic costs. The estate will then be functioning effectively
as an industrial "growth pole" in accordance with the Government's long range
planning objective for Morogoro.
A. Revenue
2.        Sources of revenue will be from rents paid by industry occupants of
developed plots, standard factory buildings and occupants of houses provided
by the estate. Water supply revenues have not been taken into account because
the supply of water all over the country and the collection of water charges is
vested in the Ministry for Water Development, Energy and Minerals. It has
therefore been assumed that once the water supply installation has been com-
pleted, it will be handed over to the Ministry for Water Development who
will be responsible for the supply of water and maintenance of the system as well
as collecting the water charges. The same assumptions have been
made regarding the supply of power and the treatment of waste from the estate.
Adequate compensation will be paid to NDC for the transfer of these facilities
to the respective authorities, and such recovery of capital cost has been
assumed in the financial analysis.
3.        Factory buildings in Tanzania are generally occupied by the owner.
In the few instances where tenancy still exists, the rent charged has not been
revised for a number of years so that rental rates do not reflect true economic
costs. The estate itself, covering eventually some 204 ha, will be on govern-
ment land to be leased to NDC for an estimated annual rent of Tsh 6,500. This
nominal charge is based on the rent presently paid by NDC for a 40 ha plot
on which the tannery is being constructed. Leases are usually for a 99-year
period.
4.        The cost of providing the necessary infrastructure for Phase I is esti-
mated at Tsh 1,015,000 (US$122,300) per ha and it is proposed to charge initially
in 1978 an annual rent of Tsh 120,000 (US$14,458) per hectare for developed land.
Since the tannery has already started with some infrastructural work, e.g., site
preparation, roadworks and water works, it has been assumed that it will pay 50%
of the normal rent. Alternatively, there could be a transfer of the infrastruc-
ture investment to the Estate Corporation which will then charge the tannery full
rent.



ANNEX 20-2
5.        Lease agreements for developed land and standard factory buildings
provide for a yearly upward revision of rentals by 8-1/3%. This increase has been
assumed in the financial projections to offset the projected inflation rate of 7%
per year and to provide an additional margin to cover increases in real values due
to land scarcity.
6.        In Tanzania, rental rates for residential houses are linked to
the occupant's income and varies from 7.5 to 12.5% of occupant's salary.  Since
the houses will be occupied by the technical, administrative and supervisory
personnel and the present rental policy, if applied, will cover only part of the
economic rent, it has been assumed that the difference between the economic and
the subsidized rents will be met by the enterprises whose personnel will occupy
these houses. An average of Tsh 72,000 per house per annum has been assumed in
the financial projections for the revenues derived from housing, with a yearly
increase of 7%, paralleling the inflation rate.
7.        Based on the above assumptions, the total revenue build-up between
1978 and 1998 is given in Addendum 1. It has also been assumed in the revenue
build-up that the 36 ha of developed land and 24 standard factory units of
240 m2 each will be gradually taken up from 1978 to 1981 when Phase I will
be fully occupied. All housing will be leased as from 1979.
B. Income and Cash Flow Staements
8.        Income and Cash Flow Statements covering the period 1978 to 1998
are given in Addendum 2.
9.        Depreciation on buildings has been assumed at 4% per year and on
other assets at 10% per year. Investment in developed land has not been
depreciated; these assets, however, are maintained and the costs of main-
tenance taken as 2% of investment cost have been included as operating
expenditures.
10.       Based on the above assumptions, debt service coverage in 1982, the
first year of debt amortization is 1.5   This decreases to 0.9 in 1983, the-
first year of loan repayment, but improves gradually thereafter to 5.3 in 1992.
the last year of loan repayment.                                       -
C. Balance Sheets and Financial Return
11.       Pro-forma balance sheets and financial return are given in Addendum 3.
The current ratio of the project is a maximum of 7 throughout the period of repay-
ment of debt.  Debt/equity ration starts at a comfortable 53:47 in 1977 and
gradually improves.  In the first year of repayment of loan it is 45:55.
12.       The financial rate of return of the project calculated in constant
1975 currency is given in Addendum 3. Based on the rate of occupancy as
described in para 7, over a project life of 20 years and with residual values
equal to the total investment cost of infrastructure and half the investment
of buildings the after-tax return is 9.2%.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TAN2ANIA
MOROCORO INDUSTRLAL cOMPLEX
NDUSTRIAL ESTATE COMPONENT
REVENUE STATEIEhIT    978-1998
(Tab '000)
1978     1979      1980 -  1981    19 2    1903        1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989    1990      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
A. RENT FROM DEVELOPED PLOTS -
Dectare   Rent per hectare/ ly-
(Th '0DD3)
8            120.0                                   480       520       563     610      661      7L6       776      840       910       986    1.068    1,157    1.254    1,358  1,471   1,594    1,727   1,871   2,026   2,194    2,378
16            130.0                                    -      2,080    2 253   2,441   2,644   2,865    3,103    3,362    3,642    3,945    4,274    4,633            5,015    5,433  5,886   6,376   6,907    7,482   8,106   8,781   9,512
8            140.0                                    -        -       1,176   1,220   1,322   1,432       1,551     1,680    1,820     1,972    2,136    2,314      2,507    2,716  2,942   3,167   3,453   3,740   4.052   4,390   4,755
4            152.5                                    -                   -      6190    661       716       776      840       910       986    1,068       ,L57    1,254     1,358  1471   1_59..    ,727   1,871   2 n26   2194   1.21.
Total fr2o  dn-elopeO plots                          480    2,600    3,942   4,881   5,Z8t   3,729    6 206    6,722    7,:282    7,889    8,546    9 256   10,030   10,865 11,770  12,751  13,814  14,964  16,210  17,559  19,023
B.  RENT FROM STAN0 ARD FACTORY UNITS1
Units R_nt per tanitfsnan
(Tab 900O)
6             90.0                                    -        540       585     634      686      744       806      873       9145    1,024     1,110     1,202    1,302      1,411  1,528   1,655   1,793    1,943   2,124   2,280   2,470
10             97.5         ,                           -       -         975   1,056   1,144   1,240       1,343     1,455    1,176    1,707    1,849    2,003    2,170    2,351  2,547   2,759   2,989   3,238   3,507   3,8D0   4,116
8            105 6                                    -        _         -       845      915      991    1,074    1,163    1,260    1,365    1,479    1,602          ,736    1,880  2,030   7,207   2_390   2,59q   2,805  35039   3,292
T-ota  Icon Eactory unics                                      540    1,540   2,535   2,745   2,975        3,223    3,a91    3,181    4,096    4,438    4,807    5,208    5,642  6,112   6,621    7.172   7.771   8,416   9,119   9,878
C.   ENT PROM AOSE  2/
Untts      Rent per hoOSn/ynar
(Tah '0002
35             72.0                                     - 2,520    2,730   2,957  3,204  33,471             _760    4,073   4,4112    4.780    5_178    5,609   6_0760          ,582 7, 131  7_Z ,    _3   9,065 9           _820 ,   0638   11,525
TOTAL RdVENUES                                       480    5,660    8,232  10,373  11,237  12,175    13,189   14,286   15,475   16,765   18,162   19,674   21,314   23,089 25,013  27,097  29,354  31,800  34,446  37,316  40,426
OpERATINE  loFL AEPL0ENtS (INCLODEM68IO8S5       , 1978-1998
A, Sslaries and Wages                                         100       200      214      229      245     262       281       300       321       344       368      394       421       450    482      516      552      590      632      676      723
0.  40nin1tbotSSn                                             1 0O0     150       161     172      184      197      210       225       241       258       276       295      316       338    361       387     414      443      474      507      543
C.  Maintenance                                                _ -                      1.196   1,237   1,324      1,416     1,815    1,621    1,735    1,85f6   1,986    2_125    2,271  2,433   2,604   2,786   2,981   3,189   3,413   3,652
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                200       350       375   1,557   1,666    1,783      1,907    2,040    2,183    2,337    2,500    2,675    2,862    3,062  3,276   3,507    3,752   4,014   4,295   4,596   4,918
1/ Asaumed eo increase by 8-1/3% per naaoa.
2/  Ansoned to ianrease by 7, pnr  -nnln.
3/  Rent ch-rged no  -a-aery han be .. .      d t       50I  of the  beg r  rate   -eae part of the land development haa bteen ?0idsb the company.
4/  Assumed to increse.   by 7'i per annn.aa fro-  1979.
3/  Inclndes printing aod statio-ery, tbanSp-bt, atilities, i..n.a-ce  nf boilding. etc.  and incre-aing at 7T. p7. annun as Scrn 1979.
61 Assupted as 2-/ nf investment in land de-elopment, buildinga and equipment a-d iocre.aing by 7b per annun.
Itd.atrial Pr-jtbt  Dep-rtneet
Febroary 1977



TANZANIA
M0R0G080 INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE COMPONENT
I8COR SATEMNTS   197-98
(Tsh '0001
1077      1978      1979      1960      1991      1982       1983      1984       t985      1086       1987      1988      1989       1900      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998
REVENU'ES
Totl ....oe .-                                              480      5,660   8.232    10,373    11,237    12,175   13,189   14,296    15,476    1b8,765    18,162    19,674    21,314    23,089    25,013   27,097    29,354    31,800   34,446    37,316   40,426
Uotal Operaing Cost                                          -         30          350      3215    1,557      1,666     1.783     1,907    2,040       2,183     2 ,33 7    2.500     2, 6275    2,862     3.002      3,276     3,507      3,752    4,014       4.295    4,596    4.918
Ineet  008D Loa)                                                    -           -        -        -       2,168      3,994     3,544      3,081     2,625     7,168      1,012     1,255        799        34 2      114        --
-    -        -      1~~~~~~~~-, 27  1 ,2 72  1 ,2072    1,~272  1,272   1 ,2 72   1. 2722    1-,2 72   1 ,2 72   1 ,2 72    1 ,2 72    1 ,2072   1,2 7 2    1 ,27 2   1,272      1,272     1,272     1 ,27 2
Total Costs                                                    200         3502     3 75    2,829    5,106       7,049    6,773    6,393    6,080          5 ,7 77   5484      5,702    4,933    4,676         4,662    4,779       5,074      5,786     5,562      5,868    6.198
Incoe Rlat  Tao                                                    280       5,310   7,857      7.544    67,131    5,126       6,466      1,8923   9,395    10.988    12,678    14,472    16,381    18,413   20,351   22,318    24,330    26,514    28,879   31,448   34,236
Coprt la 45%)                                        -          26      2390   3,536    3,395         2,79       2,307     2,910      3,552    4,228      4, 945     5,705     6,512      2,371     8.286      9,158    10,043    10,949    11,931    12,996    14,152   13,406
Iomafter Ta                                               -          154      2,920   4,321    4,149        3.372     2,819      3,556    4,341      5,167      6,0"3    6,923       7,960     9,0101   10.127    11,919    12,229    13,381    16.583   15,883   17,796    18,930
Ca..a.   e  apls(Dels-it)                                    -          54       3,074   7,395    11,544    14,916    17,735   21,291   75,632   30,799    36,84 2   43,815   5,75   60,785    70,92   82,05   94,380   107,761  122.344  138,227  155,523  174,353
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS, 1.977-98
SOURCES lOE F.UNDS
Incm    ferTn.                                                         154      2,920   4,321    4,149        3 .3 72    2,8191    3,5        4,341    5,167      6,043      6,9213    7,96       9010   10,2127   1~1,193    12,275~   113,31    14,593    15,883    17,26          18,830
Ierelteo                                                                                            1,272      702 1,22       1      ,27      120 1272 71,272                1,22       1272      12,22      1,72      1,72       1,2     2      1, 272 1     272 122        .2 72    1,272
Paid En Eqolty                                           33,206    13,282       9,962       -         -          -         -          -         .         -                    --    -                         -         -                                           
InreseS  loam.    UsilhR C-6-                                     18, 260)    13,695   2,282     -          -         -          -         --
Total Santoes                   21,375    31.696    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 ,57 7  23,696  541 4,644  4,091    4,828     5,613     6,3         ,35      824         ,3      10,282    11399    12,46        13547    14,653    1585        17,155   19,568   20,102
APPLICATION OF FIJNDIS
Decreaanin Loan                             .          -        -          -       2,283     4,565     4,565      4,565     4,565      4,565     4,565     4,565      4,565     4,365      2,2824 -5 -565  -565  -65    45b5  ,565  ,565 4,565 2-28
Lan   Ieeoen                                                ,2       2i7       1,7 -   -          -                   -               -         -          -         -          -         -         -          ------
RooldRegs 4 rqsipennt                       6~~~~~,:829    10,926  8,195   1,366        -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         .          -         -          -..--- 
ConaalttnR  4 tagiorettoo  Se-I.es                   1430      2,27       2,001        -         -                    -         -          -
lateres-  d-icEss  Urare Petid                               871     2,331    4,841    5,184        2,984        -         -          -                                                            -          ------
Total AppisoatEons                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~16,753   27,741    24,909  6,550  2,904  2,282    -4,565     4,6       455        455       455       458        455        455       455        222                    ----
Sorplos (Deftolt)                          ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~4,622  3,5551    1.668    17,,146  2,:51  2,361  74741  263  1,48      1,874     2,50       ,8        4,667    5I.717      6,034    12,183    313,57    14,653    15,853    17.155    18,568    201, 102
Coaslattte                                 4,~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~622  8,17 0,245   7391   29908    3229 3,92205             316       3,8          7.031    431,4"10   46,077   51,74    58,628   69,811    82358   9,1             1,6        3,2       4,8        6,9
Debt Sernic I                                                          -          -_-                         4,451    8,59        8,109      1.646     7.190      6,233    6277        5,870     5,3694     4,907     2396                    ---
lebs    leroRre    Ennetage            -          .         -   ~~~~ -     --  - - --  -  1.        0.         10          1         .3       14          6        18        21         24         53- -  -  -  -
1/  From Re-na       taeens  A..e. 19, EddeRdOls 1
2/  Fr  om perting Coa  Statement,,  Annr  19 , O~d.de-o  I
3/  P-t  of enpen-c  imote    orE-rsrntete                 -otd  from. p.bl- t altty conpanes
Ind-st,i.1 Proecsi       eatm-
PFlpo,1977



TAKANX,6IA
MrlRS10OR87  INDUSTRIAI. CVMPI tX
iNVf7R4IL  ESTATE  COMPONENT
PR,FORMA BALANCE ShEETS   INCI.UDIN  H8US INGC  1977- 1998
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        982    1987    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989           1990      1991l     1992      1993      1994      1495      1996      1997      199P
ASSETS
Current Asses  - Cash                         4,622   8,577  10,245  27,391  29,908  32,269  31,795  32,058  33,106  34,980  37,738  41,410  46,077   51,794   58,628   68,811   82,358   97,011   112,866  130,021  148,589  168,691
fixed A-neLs
- Buildings & Isfrasrsut-ure                 16,753  44,494  69,403  58,860  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764  61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764   61,764
'TLess J)epreniue                             -       -        -        -      7,272   2,544   3,816   5,088  .6,360   7,632   8,904  10,176  11,448   12,720   13,992   15,264   16,536   17,808   19,080   20,352   21,624   22,896
TAItl Net Fined Asset.s                  16,753  44,494  69,403  58,860  60,492  59L220  57,948  16,676  55,404  94,132  52,868  51,588  50,316   49,044   47,772   46,500   45,228   43 4956   42,684   41,412   40,140   38,868
Total Assets                             21,375  53,071  79,648  96,251  90,400  91,489  89,743  88,734  88,510  89,1L2  30,590  92,998  96,393  100,838  106,400  115,311  127,586  140,967  155,550  11L,433  188,729  207,559
LIABILITLE S
- Manr-ig Lang lern Loan                                -                 -      2,283   4,565   4,565   4,565   4,565   4,865   4,565   4,565   4,565    4,565            2,282      -         -         -
- Lung Term Loan                             11,413  29,673  43,368  45,650  43,367  38,802  34,237  29,672  25,107  20,542  .5,977  11412   6,847    2,282                -         -         -         -         -
E OU ITY
- NOCE & Governmsent   Share Capital          9,962  23,244  33,206  33,206  33,206  33,206  33,206  33,206  33,206  33,206   13,206  33,206  33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206   33,206
Surplus (IeEicit)                                      154   3,074   7,395  11,544  14,916  12,735  21,291  25,632  38,799   16,842  43,818  51,775   60,785   70,912   82,105   94,388  107,761  122,344  138,227  155,523  174,353
Total Liabiliti-s & Eqsily               21,375  53,071  79,648  86,251  90,400  91,489  89,743  88,734  88,510  89,112  90,590  97,998  96,393  100,838  186,400  115,311  127,586  140,967  155,550  171,433  188,729  207,559
Csrreni Eatie                                     -        -                        13.1      7-1     7.8      7.0      7.3      7.7     8.3      9.1    10.1        11.3      25.7      -         -        -         -          -        -         -
DebI/Equity Raris                                53:47   56:44   54:46   53:47   49:51   45:55   40:60   35:65   30:70   24:76   19:81   13:87    7:93                2:98     0:100   -          -         -         -         -         _
FINANCIAL  RATE OF RETURN (INElOING HOESING) , 1977-1998
A. CE8BENP VALUE BASIS
Investenet CDStS tl
-  Land DevelopmntL                      7,623   12,197 10,672 (17,093)/2 -
-  Buildigng  & Equipment                6,829   10,926  9,561
-  C-us-lting & Eng'g Sertlie            1,430    2,287  2, 001
Total Inesestent Custp             15,882   75,4 0 22,234 (17,093)   -           _                _ -               _       _        _        _         _ -                 _ -       -        -         -                   -
Operating Profir 4 Lanes
- Operating Profit73                      -         280   5,310   7,857   8,816   9,571  10,392  11,282  12,246  13,292  14,428  15,662  16,999   18,452   20,027   21,737   23,590   25,602   27,786   30,151   32,720   35,508
- Tames                                             126   2,390   3,536   3,395   2,759   2,307   2,910   3,552   4,228   4,945   5,705   6,512    7,371    8,286    9,158   10,043   10,949   11,931   12,996   14,152   15,406
Finanuial Return:  21.17, (ReEfre Tan)
FiPnunial Ret-n:  14.87, (After Tin)
B. CONSTAN4T VALUE BASIS
Iutesiteen  Cents                         13,932  20,659  16,717 (11,953)/2
Oper-ting Pr-fit                            -         228   3,992   5,494   5,762   5,836   5,938   6,001   6,123   6,182   6,273   6,367   6,463    6,543    6,653    6,751    6,838    6,938    7,034                   7,162    7,239   39,657 /5
Tanes                                       -         102   1,797   2,473   2,219   1,682   1,318   1,548   1,776   1,967   2,150   2,319   2,476    2,614    2,753    2,844    2,911    2,967    3,021    3,087    3,L31    3,183
Pinancial Return, i,,nidieg residual -uise:  14.0% (Before Tan) and 9.2% (After Tan)
Financial Return, exuluding rentd-al -a-ue:  12,9'4 (Eelnee Tan) and 7.17. (After Tan)
/I EIcluding interest d-ring -anstruutin.
72  Pant uB eupennen incurred f-r infrastr.ct- re  recoune-d fram public  rtility c-panies.
/3  Operating prefit = Rene - Openating  Cents (enrnIding depreciation).
/4  At ranstant 1976 prices.
/5  Inrluding Residnal raise takes  as tptal Band  deve-lp-ent plus half  sn-etenet casts as building,.
Industrial Prajects Department
Febusr-v 1977
wi



ANN(EX 21
IIOROGOPlo 1DUSTDTM-AL COMPLEX
CALCULATI014 OF PRICE DEFLATORS
In ord'er to dcflfue the cost an(d benefit figures to constant late 1975
nrices for r-te of return analyses, t-ic -creases in the international manufac-
turing price index were assumed, as follows:
A. International Price Index of 11nufactures
Year                   Price Increase Rate
1975                        10.5
i976                         8.8
1977                         8.0
1978                         765
1979                         7-5
1980  on                     7.0
B.  Deflrtor
Year                   Price Increase Rate        Defletor
1975 1J                      O,8                    1.00
1976 -                       8.0                    1.05
1977                         7.8                    1.14
1978                         765                    1.23
1979                         7.3                    1.33
1980                         7.0                    1. 43
1931                         7.0                    1.53
1982                         7.0                    1.61t
1983                         7.0                    1.75
1984                         7.0                    1.88
1985                         7.0                    2.00
1986                         7.0                    2.15
1987                         7.0                    2.30
1988                         7.0                    2.246
1989                         7.0                    2.63
1990                         7.0                    2.82
1991                         7.0                    3.01
1992                         7.0                    3.22
1903                         7.0                    3.145
199J4                        7.0                    3.69
1995                         7.0                    3.95
1996                         7.0                    4.21
1997                         7.0                    4.52
1998                         7.0                    4.84
a/ Source: Economic Analysis and Projections Department, IRRD.
b/ Corresponds to the base price year.
Industrial Projects Department
V'efruar  11977



ANMEX 22-1
TANZANIA
MDROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACT1ORY-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, 1977-1998
Operating Costs and Revenues
1.      The footwear factory is expected to start operations in the beginning
of 1980. The assumed capacity utilization rate for the first year is 60%,
increasing to 80% in the second year of operations. Tn the third and sub-
sequent years of operations, capacity utilization is assumed to be 90%. Pro-
jected ex-factory raw material and product prices, as well as production costs
estimates, are based on late-1975 prices and escalated to show the anticipated
rates of inflation. We have assumed that the footwear factorywill produce
two types of shoes: a flat-lasted leather shoe with leather soles and a tennis
type of canvas shoe. The flat-lasted "average" shoe that the footwear factory
will produce has been assumed to be about 10% cheaper than world prices for
comparable shoes. The mission believes that the Morogoro footwear factory
should produce utilitarian shoes before producing higher-priced fashion shoes.
The canvas shoe is assumed to be relatively good (similar to Converse type of
canvas shoe). The mission believes that, as the manufacturing process would
be automatic, there is no reason why Morogoro footwear factory should only pro-
duce the cheaper, "sneaker" type shoe. The prices assumed for the canvas shoes
are conservative on the average, 250' belowT those assumed in the IACP feasibility
study, the prices of which were based on manufacturing experience of Pakistani
firms. It is assumed that all the output will be sold, 80% exported overseas
and the other 20% consumed domestically.  The ex-factory prices adjusted for
transport costs of the footwear are assumed to be the prevailing international
prices as well. The product-mix and prices are given below:
Table 1: Annual Sales Revenue aX
Item              Quantity               Price Per Pair        Annual Revenue
(000 pairs)                  (Tsh)             (Tsh 'OOOs)
Leather Shoes        2,000                      62.25                124,500
Canvas Shoes         2 000                      21.60                  3,200
Total                                                          167,700
a/ At 100% capacity utilization, late 1975 prices.



AlI? EX 22-2
2.        The recurrent operating costs at 90% capacity utilization are
shown in Addendum 1, in both late-1975 prices and 1982 prices. In 1975
prices, the local raw material, consisting mostly of leather and canvas,
amounts to Tsh 45,137,451t  Imported raw materials, consisting of chemicals,
rubber, eyelets etc. amount to Tsh 29,204,761. Staff salary and wages plus
benefits     are assumed to be Tsh 12,185,694, or 1,25 times the feasibility
stuLdy estimate, reflecting the mission's opinion that it would be difficult
to prevent overstaffing in Tanzanian factories. The salaries and benefits
are assumed to increase 2% p.a. in real terms to compensate for increases
in factory skills. Factory overheads are estimated to be Tsh 6,764,000 and
include power, maintenance, water and rent, etc. Power is estimated at
Tsh 912,000, water at Tsh 26,000 and maintenenace at Tsh 1,984,000 (3% of the
value of equipment and civil works. The maintenance figure is 3 times the
IACP estimates). Factory supplies are taken at 1% of the raw materials con-
sumed during the year, and amount to Tsh 720,732.  All of the ebove costs are
_ssiuned to increpse at 7% p.a. when converting to current terms.  Rent is
taken at TshleO,0001ha. For 5.5 ha, the rent for the footwear factory is
set at Tsh 660,000 growing at 8.33% p.a. Waste disposal charges are set
at Tsh 166,000 for the footwear factory, growing at the anticipated rate of
inflation. Miscellaneous expenses are estimated at Tsh 2,414,00 and include
allocation for technical assistance to the footwear factory.
3.        The operating expenses include office administrative salaries and
benefits, general expenses, and selling and distribution expenses. Office
administrative expenses are estimated at Tsh 905,000, 1.25 times the feasibi-
lity study estimate to reflect the mission's opinion concerning the likeli-
hood of overstaffing in Tanzanian offices. Administrative salaries and
benefits are estimated to increase at 2% p.a. in real terms to compensate
for increases in productivity. General expenses are estimated at Tsh 1,300,000
or 2.4 times the estimate of the feasibility study, and includes legal fees,
incurance fees, and assessments made to NDC for special services, as well as
subsidized housing for the staff of the footwear factory. Selling and dis-
tribution expenses are assumed to be 5% of sales revenue and amount to
Tsh 6,503,000 and include port-factory transport costs.
4.        I on-operating expenses include interest charges, depreciation, and
bank charges and commission. Interest and principal repayment schedules are
seen in Addenda 2 and 3. The depreciation schedule is shown in Addendum 4.
Eiquipment, other assets, training, and capitalized interest are depreciated
according to the straight line method, assuming an 8-year operating life.
Civil works are depreciated on a straight line basis at the rate of 4% p.a.
For purposes of financial analysis a residual value of 25% of the capital
costs (exclluding interest during construction) in constant 1975 prices has been
assumed.



ANNEX 22-3
5.       The production costs are broken down as follows:
Table 2: Fixed and Variable Costs
(Tsh 'OOOs) 1/
1975 Prices       1982 Prices
Variable
Local Raw Materials                          45,137            74,025
Imported Raw Materials                      2920~5             47,896
Labor                                       12,186             19, 85
Utilities                                      938              1,539
Maintenance                                  1,984              3,987
Selling , Distribution & Transport           6,503             10,665
Other                                        3.178              5,213
99,131           163,310
Fixed
Office Adm., General, and Housing Subs.      2,205              3,617
Depreciation                                15,l33             15,34l3
Rent, Waste Disposal and Other                 (20              1  2
18 3.8            20,232
Total Cost Before Interest            117,481           183,520
Interest                                    12,478             12,478
Total Cost                            129,967           196,020-
1/ At 90% capacity utilization in 1982.
Income Statement. Balance Sheet. Cash Flow Statements
6.        Forecasted financial statements based on late-1975 prices and es-
calated to indicate expected inflation rates have been done for 20 years up
to 1998. These are shown in Addenda 5 and 6.
Financial Rate of Return
7.        The financial rate of return before tax has been estimated at  24.4%
and after-tax at 17.2%.  The cost and benefit streams are shown in Addendum 6.
MaJor Risks
8.        The major risk lies in NDC's ability to find a suitable joint-
venture partner to arrange for the export marketing of leather and canvas
footwear. Without such expertise, the domestic demand for shoes does not
justify the footwear factory at Morogoro. Also to keep production costs
low, NDC must aim for the efficient management of the footwear factory and
try to keep overstaffing to a minimum.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 22 4
Addendum 1
TANZANJI
MOROGORO INDUSrRIL COMLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY - OPERATING COST BREAKDWN
hTs  '0000s_i~
In Constant   In Current
7   rices  (1982) Prices
Costs of Production
Raw- MWterials
Local                                            45,137         74,025
Inported                                         29,205         47,896
Factory Staff Salaries and Benefits                12,186         19,985
Mnufacturing Overheadcs
Power                                     912            1,496
Water                                       26               43
Naintenance                             1,984            3,987
Factory Supplies                                         l,182
Rent                                      54               910
Waste   Disposal Charges                   166              272
Miscellaneous Expenses                  7,414            3,960
6,764 .11,828
Total Cost of Production                       93,305       153,756
Operating ExSpenses
Office Administrative Salaries & Benefits             905         1,484
General Expenses b/                                 1,300         2,133
Selling, Distributing & Transport Expenses          10  66
Total Operating Expenses
Non-operating Expenses
Interest on IBRD Loan                             12,428         12,478
Depreciation                                      15,433         15,433
Bank Charges &k Corrissions                          143              71
Total Non-operating E;penses                  27,954         27,982
a/ At 906 capacity utilzation.
b/ Include legal andl insurance fees and special assessments to Iil)C
for special services as well as subsidies for housirng.
Industrnl Pro.iects DeDnrtment
_'ebmarv 1977



ANNEK X-
Addeiiduri
TANZANIA
MORO(ORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOONEAR FACTORY - LOAN AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE - IERD
(Tsh 'OOO)
Amount
Interest     Principal Repayment    Outstanding
Jan. 1, 1982            6,391            6,087              12
July 1, 1982            6,087            6,087              109  59
Jan. 1, 1983            5,78?            6,087               97,38S
July 1, 1983            5~,458           6,087              103, 72
Jan. 1, 1983            5,17b            6,087               972385
July 1, 1985            42,869           6,087                9128
Jan. 1, 1985           4h,565            6.,087              85.,211
July 1, 1985            4.216,087                            79',124
Jan. 1, 1986            3v956            6,087               73,037
July 1, 1986            3s652            6,087               66,950
Jan. 1, 1987            3,348            6,087               60,863
July 1, 1987            3,0h3            6P087               54,776
Jan. 1, 1988            2,739            6,087               4B,689
July 1, 1988            2,h34             6,087              42,602
Jan. 1, 1989            2.130             6,087              36,515
July 1, 1989            1,826             6,087              30,4h28
Jan. 1, 1990            1,521             6,087              2hj3hi
July 1, 1990            1,217             6,087              184254
Jan. 1, 1991              913             6,087               12,167
July 1, 1991              608             6,087                6,080
Jan. 1, 1992              304             6,o80o
Industrial Projects Department
Februa n 11977



ANNEX'-',
Addendum 3
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
DEPRECIATION SCHEDULE
(Tsh 'IOO)
Equipment      Civil Works        Total
1980-1986                 14,129           1,304         15,433
1987                      14,128           1,304          15,432
1988-2003                                  1,304           1,304
2004                                       1,299           1,299
1/ Equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis at 12.5% p.a.
Civil works are depreciated on a straight line basis at 4% p.a.
For purposes of financial analysis, a residual value of 25% of
capital costs (excluding interest durlng construction) in
constant 1975 prices has been assumed.
Industrial Projects Department
Febru,rv 3977



Addendum 4
LASTANIA
IRLAL CoMPLEX
OPRAIG   oTT IROJECION
1980         1981         1982         1983          1984         1985          1986         1987            1998
IT EMS
LAPACITY LUTIL IZATION                    60.0         80.0         90.0          90.0         90.0         90.0          90.0         90.0             90.0
OFENING STOCK                         21093.0       12656.0      18054.0      21771.0       23232.0      24858.0      26598.0       28460.0          59905.0
PURCHASES IMFORTED                  43031.0      61387.0       74025.0      78991.0      84520.0       90436.0      96767.0    103541.0          217937.0
1.OCAL                    27842.0      39719.0       47896.0      51108.0      54686.0       58514.0      62610.0       66993.0        141010,0
RAW MATERIALS AVAILA8LE             91966.0    113762.0    139975.0    151870.0    162438.0    173808.0    185975.0    198994.0                  418852.0
L f sS CL OSINGi STOCK              12656.0       18054.0      21771.0      23232.0       24858.0      26598.0      28460.0       30452.0         64098.0
RAW MATERIAL CONSUMED               79310.0      9070B.0    118204.0    128638.0    137580.0    147210.0    157515.0    168542.0                 354754.0
EXPENDITTURES F rR THE YEAR
FACTORY STAFF SAL ANI' WAGES        16439.0       17941.0      19608.0      21325.0      23274.0       25401.0      27723.0       30257.0         79184.0
MANUFACTURING OVERHEADS
FUEL                                  -
P OWER                                870.0        1241.0       1496.0       1596.0        1708.0       1828.0       1956.0        2093.0           4408.0
WATER                                   25.0         35.0         43.0         45.0          48.0         51,0          55.0         59.0            124.0
MT  t) OF  IE O MACH,                3254.0        3402.0       3726.0       3987.0        4266.0       4S65.0       4805.0        5227.0         11004.0
hFNI                                  775.0         340.0        15'0.0       986.0        1068.0       1157.0       1253.0        1357.0          3273.0
f AL,TORY SULJFLIES                   793.0         957.0       1182.0       1286.0        1376.0       1472.0        1575.0       1680.0          3548.0
WASrE  qISpOSAL CHARGES               222.0         237.0        254.0        272.0         291.0        311.0        333.0         356.0            752.0
MISCELLANErIS  EXPENSES              2145.0        3060.0       3690,0       3938r0        4214.0       4509.0       4825.0        5163.0         10867,0
IOFAL FOR THE YEAR                24523.0      27793.0      30909.0       33435.0      36245.0      39294.0       42605.0      46197.0         113160.0
OFENING WORK* SN PROCESS STOCK          -            2419.0       2934.0       3543.0        3859.0       4140.0       4442.0        4766.0          10380.0
TOrAL WtORN IN PROCESS             103833.0    125920.0    149113.0    162073.0    173825.0    186504.0    200120.0    214739.0                  467914.0
LESS WORK TN PROCESS STOCK             2419.0        2934.0       3543.0       3859.0        4140.0       4442.0        4766.0       5114.0          11144.0
, _     _ _       _ _    _ _-- - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - - -- _-- - - - - - - _ _- - _ _ - -_ _ _ - _ _- - _ _ _- - __ - _ _ _- - _ _ - -
TOTAL COST OF HooDfs MFG.            101414.0    122986.0    145570.0    158214.0    169685.0    182062.0    195354.0    209625.0                  456770.0
OFPENING STOCK OF fIN.GOODS             -            4726.0       5951.0       7061.0        7702.0       8266.0        8869.0       9517.0          20725.0
_         _________--------- .-----.--- .-  - __ _ ---          -             -            -    -           ----------
TOTAL GOOIDS AVAIL FOR SALF        101414.0    127712.0    151521.0    165275.0    177387.0    190328.0    204223.0    219142.0                  477495.0
LESS FINISHED GO(1'S                   4726.0        0951.0       7061.0       7702.0        8266.0       8869.0        9517.0      10212.0         22251.0
TOTAL L(OSr LOF GOODS SOLD          96688,0    121761.0    144460.0    157573.0    169121.0    181459.0    194706.0    208930.0                  455244.0
OPERATING EFXPENSES
OFFICE ADMIN.SALARIES              1221.0       1332.0        1456.0       1584.0       1729.0        1887.0       2059.0       2247.0           5879.0
HOUSING SUBS.+GEN. OFF. EX         1240.0       1769.0        2133.0       2276.0       2435.0        2605.0       2787.0        2982.0          6278.0
SELLING + TRANSPORT EXP.          6200.0       8845.0      10665.0       11380.0      12175.0       13025.0      13935.0      14910.0          31390.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             8661.0       11946.0      14254.0      15240.0      16339.0       17517.0      18781.0      20139.0          43547.0
NON-OFERATINO FXPENSES
INTEREST ON I8RD LOANS              12782.0       12782.0      12478.0      11260.0      10043.0        8826.0       7608.0        6391.0            -
INTEREST ON EDF LOAN                  -             -            _
rANK CHARGES AND COMM.                 41.0          59.0         71.0         76.0          81.0         87.0         93.0         100.0           211.0
,FPRECIATTON                        15433.0      15433.0       15433.0      15433.0      15433.0       15433.0      15433.0      15432.0           1304.0
-- - _ _ _ _ - -  - - - - - - - - --- _ - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - _ - - - - - - - - - - _ - - - - _ _ _ _ - -   - _ _ _ _ - - - - _ _ _ _ - - - - _ _ _ _   - - - _ _ _ _ - - -
rOTAL NON-OFERATING EXPENSES          28256.0      28274.0       27982.0      26769.0      25557.0       24346.0      23134.0      21923.0           1515.0
IndF striaY  Pro1 ects 97
Feabruaty 1977



TANZANIA
MoRLLORo INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
I AIWFAR PA(:TORY CGMP)NEN1
NCOME STATEMENT  L    I,A W I,i  AND BALANCE SHEFT
1980          1981          1982          1983          1984           1A82          1986          1987            1998
INCOME STATEMENT
ITSH 000)
SALES RFLENLJE                          143887.0      205265.0      247525.0      264128.0    262617.0        302490.0       j23568.0      346218.0         728738.,)
L ESS COSE OF GOODS SOLT'             96688.0      121761.0       144460,0      157573.0      169121.0      181459.0      1947^6.0       208930.0        455244.0
----------   ----------   ----------  ----------  ----------  ------r ---  --- -- ----  ---- - --- --               ------ ---
GROSS FROFIT                        47199.0       83504.0      103065.0       106555.0      113496.0      120941.0      128862.0      137288.0         273494.0
LESS OFFRATING EXPENSES                   8661.0       11946.0       14254.0       15240.0        16339.0       175A7.0       18781.0       20139.0          43547.0
---    - -    - - - - -     - - - -  - - -  - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -                  -  - - - -   ---       - -
OPERATING PROFITS                     38538.0        71558.0       88811.0       91315.0       97157.0      103424.0       110081.0      117149.0        229947.0
LESS NON-OPERATING EXPENSES              28256.0       28274.0       27982.0       26769.0       25557.0        24346.0       23134.0       21923.0           1515.0
BEE PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                10282.0      43284.0        60829.0       64546.0       71600.0       79078.0        86947.0       95226.0        228432.0
TAXE S AT 45 0 OP NET
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                       4627.0       19478.0       27373.0       29046.0       32220.0        35585.0       39126.0       42852.0         102794.0
NET PRUIFr  AlTER TAXES                 5655.0       23806.0       33456.0       35500.0       39380.0       43493.0        47821.0       52374.0        125638.0
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(TSH 0001
ikjE CFS OF FIJNES
PIET PEROFIT AFTER TAX                  5655.0      23806.0        33456.0       35500.0       39380.0       43493.00       47821.0       52374.0        125638.0
hIF F I,[ IJDI TION                   15433.0        15433.0       15433.0       15433.0       15433.0       15433.0        15433.0       15432.0          1304.0
IS,     . 1   I. 11 -tiNrEs           21088.0       39239.0       48889.0        50933.0       54813.0       58926.,0      63254.0       67806.0        126942.0
USES i18 FIONDS'
IBRD IL8AN kEPYIS,                      -              -           12174.0       12174.0       12174.0       12174,0       12174.0        12174.0          -
r ElF 11OAN RSFAYMENT                   -             -             -             -                                   -                     -
fOIAI USES J1  FIINDL                      -             -           12174.0       12174,0       12174.0       12174.0        12174.0       12174.0           -
831111k IFS IEE ID . IT)                 21088.0       39239.0       36715.0       38759.0       42639.0        46752.0       51080.0       55632.0       126942.0
[G1M, ISIIRFPIIiE (DEFII:IT) BEG.        67878.0       88966.0      128205,0      164920.0      203679.0      246318.0       293070.0      344150.0      1260957.0
COM. SURPLUS  DtilFI LT) ENI'            88966.0      128205.0      164920.0      203679.0      246318.0       293070.0      344150.0      399782.0      1387899.0
DEBT SERVUIC  COVERAIF                       2.6            4.1           2.5           2.7           2.9          312             3.6           4.0          -
BALANCE SHEET
<TSH 000)
ASSE 1!.
CULRRENT ASSETS                      118639.0       172127.0      211124.0      202166.0      297347.0      346819.0      400809.0    459555.0         1488088.0
tIXEt' ASE I S
THTAl VAI liF OF ASSETS              141.626.0     L45626,0      145rB?t ,S     145626.0      145626.0      145626.0      145626.0      145626.0        145626.0
LESS 8121.. DEPRECIATION               1:s433.0      10866.0       462Y9.0       61732.0       77165.0       92098.0       108031.0      123463.0       1378O7.0
NET ISSF ES AT Yh.LNII               1301Y T.,)    t14'60.C        9932' .S0     83894.0       68461.0       53028.0        37595.0       22161.30         7819,0
TEiEAl 8ASF) E.                     248833  0     2566'..    ,129'  1o         336060,0      365808.0      399847.0      438404.0      481718.0       1495907.0
LIABIL ITlFS  toWNERS EGUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES                      29673.0       43922.0       46204.0       48487.0        51029.0       53749.0       56659.0       59773.0        100189,0
LONL-TERM DiLBT                      127820.0       127820.0      115646.0      103472.0       91298.0        79124.0       66950.0       54776.0           -
EQIIITY                               85684.0        85684.0       85684.0       85684.0       85684.0       85684.0        85684.0       85684.0         85684.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                       5655.0       29461.0       62917.0       9B417.0      137797.0      181290.0       229111.0      281485.0      1310034.0
TOTAL  I IABIL ITIES  EGUIOY           248832.0      286887.0       310451.0      336060.0      365808.0      399847.0      438404.0       481718,0      1495907.0
I-IIRRFNI RATIO                              4.0            3.9           4.6           5.2           5.8            6.5           7.1           7.7            14.9
Industrial Projects DpePrt-et
February 1977



TANZ7ANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTOXRY - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FINANCIAL RETUlRN
(Tsh '(X)0)-
- -    -    -    -_ Current Terms-                                                         Constant Terms_-----          
Cost of                                                               Cost of
Capital    Goods      Operating             Defla-                    Capital    Goods   Operating
Revenues   Costs ~a/Sold            Costs      Taxes    tor           Revenues   Costs        S old      Costs,    Taxes
1977         -     58,750          ---    1.14                                     -      51.,535---
1978        -      58,750          ---    1.23                                     -      47,,764---
1979        -      39,167          -          -           -    1.33                -      29,4h9         -         --
1980   143,887    19,583       96,688      8,661      14,627   1.43           100,620    13,694    67.,614       6,057    13,,23
1981   205,265      9,792    121,761    11.,946       19,478   1.53          134,160       6.,400    79,,582     7.,808    12.,731.
1982   247,525      9,791    144,60    J-.~,254       27,373   1.64           150,930      5,970    88.,08C5    8,691    16,69]
1983   264,128                157,573    15.,240      29,04t   1.75           150,930                9o,042     8,709    16,598
1984   282,617                169,12]    16,339       3?,2?    1.88           150,328                89,956      8,691    17.,13P
181,459  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ 0,3                879       17,,793
1985   3024400                            17.,517     35.,181   2.00          151,200                90O5673]    8,7359    1,9
1986   323.,568               194,706    18,781       39.,126-  2.15         150,497                 9.51             3     819
302,400   ~ ~~28  3090,839,    8,7                                                                            18.,631
1987   346,,218               2890        20,139      42,52Z  2.30            150,530                9119        8,780     2159
1988   370,453                224,202    21.,598      55.,131   2.46          150,591                91,4139     8,7806    21,773P
1989   396,385                 40 )602    23,160      57,262   2.63          150,717                  148880               2173
1990   424,132                258,921-6   24,839      61,613   2.82           150,401                91,566      8,808    21,848
1991   453,821                277,131    26,642       66,19)   3.01          150,771                 92,072      8,851    21,990
1992   4588297,451    28,577                          71,01'  3.22            150,8049236                        875        20.
1993   519,579                319,272    30,653       75,690   3.45          150,603                 92,543      8,885     21 ,9?
1994   555,950                3421,713    32.,878     80,502   3.69           150,664                92,87(      8,910    21,8Th"
1995   594,867                367,895    35,267       85,(o3   3.95          150,599                 93,138      8,928    21,67
1996   636,508                3496        37,834      91,007   4.21          151,190                 93,         8,987    21,63-~
1997   6 81, 064      424,012    40,589       96,73~   4.52           150,678                9,P          ,8        14~
1998   728,738                455,244    43,547      102,791,  4.84          150,566 (38,703)        94.,059     8,997    21,29'
a!  Excluding interest during construction.
b/Residual value assumed to be 25%/0 of capital costs in constant 1975 prices.
The financial return is 24.35/, before taxes and 17.15%, after taxes.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



AN= 22-10
-dendum 
TANZANIA.
MDROGORO  MUM=AL  aOM
FOOTWEAR FACTORY-PROFIT BREAZ-EVEN PO2IT.1982
-  4I                                   4"Y 
, I . ._ H , .. . . . F .I  _77 _               __
1  I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_-T-                    _                        _j. _   ---'----  10-        -      964- -  ttt5'  ___ ,0_.
-t                     _ 
Industr Tal P-rojets  t.ent
Ferux  1977t.AlX
8--11t0wjt        
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



AhiNEX 23-1
TAN3ZAKIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL C IPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY-FIUANCIAL PROJECTIONS, 1977-1998
Operating Costs and Revenues
1.        The leather goods factory is expected to start operations by
July 1, 1979, starting with an annual capacity utilization of 60%, increasing
to 80% in the second year of operations, 90% in the third  and sub-
sequent years.    The projected raw material and ex-factory product
prices, as well as production cost estimates, were all based on late-1975
prices and escalated to allow for anticipated inflation. The product-mix
and prices of the leather goods factory are given below. It is assumed that
a volume of goods equal to that of capacity utilization will be sold. The
ex-factory leather goods prices, adjusted for port-factory transport costs, are
assumed to be f.o.b. Dar-es-Salaam prices as well. These prices are con-
servative estimates, and are the lower range of comparable products
available in Pakistan.
Table 1: Annual Sales Revenue a/
Item                  Quantity                  Average            Total Amount
('000 units)          Price Per Unit         (Tsh '000)
Tsh
iHandbags                18                    720O0                 1,296
Suitcases                10                   242.00                 2,420
Wallets                  32                    18.00                   576
Leather Belts            14                    12.10                   169
Leather Jackets          4o                   362o25                14,490
Total             114                                        18,951
a/ At 100% capacity utilization
2.        The recurrent operating costs at 90% capacity ut11iza;tion are
shown in Addendum 1. The following discussion is all in terms of 1975 prices
and at 90% capacity utilization. Leather - 164,792 m2 - is to be bought at
an estimated amount of Tsh 9,077,210. Accessories and grindery, assumed to be
imported, amount to Tsh 1,681,200. Factory staff salaries and benefits are
estimated at Tsh 1,172,000. This is 1.25 times the feasibility study estimate
and reflects the mission's opinion of the likelihood of overstaffing in
Tanzanian factories. Salaries and benefits are expected to grow in real terms
at 2% p.a. to reflect increases in factory skills. In the first two years of
operation, an allowance of Tsh 330,000 each year has been made for technical
assistance to enable Tanzanians to produce leather goods of international
quality. Factory overheads amount to Tsh 646,000 and include: lubricants,
utilities, maintenance, etc. Lubricant and water consumption have been estimated
at Tsh 2,439 each, power at Tsh 18,293. Maintenance has been estimated at
Tsh 31,700 annually, at 2% of the cost of equipment. Factory supplies are
estimated at Tsh 105,000. Miscellaneous expenses are estimated at Tsh 225,000
include allowances for further technical assistance to the leather goods
factory, if necessary. At Tsh 90, 000 per unit in a standard factory building,
the leather goods factory incurs a rent of Tsh360,000 for the 4 units it will
occupy. Waste disposal charges amount to Tsh 13,400,



ANMNEX 23-2
30        Operating expenses include administrative and general. expenses as
well as selling and distribuiting expenses. It is assumed that the adminis-
tration of the leather goods factory will be part of the functions of the
footwear factory administration. Office administrative expenses and general
expenses amount to Tsh 353,050 and include, among others, insurance fees
.nmd premia, legal fees, as well as fees paid to NDC for special studies and
services.  It also provides for housing subsidy for staff of the leather goods
factory. Selling and distribution expenses are assumed to be 7% of sales
revenue and include allowances for port-factory transport costs.
4.        Non-operating expenses-include interest on IBRD loan, depreciation,
and bank charges and commissions. The Bank loan is expected to be repaid bv
the leather goods factory in 15 years including 4-h years grace, in 20 equal
installments of principal and interest (see Addendum 2). Depreciation of
equipnent and other assets are taken at 12.5p on a straight-line basis.  (See
Addendum 3). For purposes of financial analy&is, a residual value of 25% of
the capital costs (excluding interest during construction) in constant 1975
prices has been assumed. Bank charges and commissions are estimated at
Tsh 16,000 to local banks for overdrafts and other services.
5.        Production costs are broken down as follows:
Table 2: Fixed and V   able Coats
(Tsh  OOOs).L/
1975 Prices          1982 Prices
Variable
Leather                                         9,077              14,886
Accessories and Grindery                        1,681               2,757
Labor                                           1,172               1,922
Utilities and Lubricants                           22                  38
M4aintenance                                       32                  52
Selling and Distribution                          848               1,390
Other                                             346                 568
13,178              21,613
Fixed
Office Administration and General                 353                 579
Depreciation                                      374                 374
Rent, Waste Disposal and Other                    267                 45&
891               1,288
Total Cost Before Interest             14,172               23,004
Interest                                          486              _486
Total Cost                            1 4,656              23,,490
1/ At 90% capacityutilization.
Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement
6.        Forecasted financial statements based on late-1975 prices and escalated
to indicate anticipated inflation rates have been made for 20 years up to 1998.
These are attached as Addenda 4 and 5,



ANNEX 23-3
Financial Rate of Return
7.       The financial rate of return for the leather goods factory is 33.7%
hefore taxes and 23.2$O after taxes in constant terms.  This amounts to a 30.2%
after-tax return in current terms, which is considered satisfactory. The cash
flows for financial analysis are attached as Addendum 6.
Major Risk
8.       The major risk lies in the ability of the leather goods factory to
manufacture leather goods of acceptable international quality and style and
to have the marketing network to handle the sales in overseas markets. Given
the expertise to be contracted from Italmacchine, this risk is considered
minimal.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 23 -4
Addendum 1
TANZANIA
NOROGORO  DnUSRLL  GOEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTOR - OPERATING COST BREAKDOWN a/
Costs of Production                          In Constant    In Current
1975 Prices   (1982) Prices
Paw MqEterial
Leather                                      9,077          14,886
Accessories and Grindery                     1,681            2,757
Factory Staff Salaries and T^lages             1,172           1,922
Manufacturing Overheads:
Lubricants                                       2                4
Power                                           18               30
Water                                            2                4
Maintenance                                     32               52
Factory Supplies                                                17
Rent                                           257             422
Waste  Disposal Charges                         10               16
Miscellaneous Expenses                          25             369
Total Cost of Production                  1561
Qperating Expenses
Office Administrative & General Expenses b/   353              579
Selling and Distributing Expenses        -     8L8           1 ,90
Total Operating Expenses                   1,20 1
Non-Operating Expenses
Interest on IBRD loan                          486             1X86
Bank Conmnission and Charges                    16               27
Depreciation                                   374              324
Total Non-Operating Expenses                B7L
a/ At     capacity utiLization.
b/ Includeslegal and insurance fees; special assessments to NDC,
and subsidized worker housing
Industr-ial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNE2
Addendum 2
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY - LOAN AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE - IBRD
(Tsh tOOO)
Amount
Interest       Principal-Repayment         Outstanding
Jan. 1, 1982          249                   237                    4,743
July 1, 1982          237                   237                   4,506
Jan. 1, 1983          225                   237                    4,269
July 1, 1983          213                   237                    4,032
Jan. 1, 1984          202                   237                    3,795
July 1, 1984          190                   237                    3,558
Jan. 1, 1985          178                   237                    3,321
July 1, 1985          166                   237                   3,084
Jan. 1, 1986          154                   237                   2,847
July 1, 1986          142                   237                   2,610
Jan. 1, 1987          131                   237                   2,373
July 1, 1987          119                   237                   2,136
Jan. 1, 1988          107                   237                   1,899
July 1, 1988           95                   237                    1,662
Jan. 1, 1989           83                   237                   1,4?5
July 1, 1989           71                   237                   1,188
Jan. 1, 1990           59                   237                      951
July 1, 1990           48                   237                      714
Jan. 1, 1991           36                   237                      477
July 1, 1991           24                   237                      240
Jan. 1, 1992           12                   240                       -
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



Add enridm. 7
MORPO(GORO INDUSTRIA-L COMPL
LEh'l'hZk .3ONODS FACTOR' - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
DEPRMCIATION SCHEDULE
(Tsh "O00)
1979                       187
]98()-1986                 37h4
8i937                      1.8
E auibmerit is depreciated on a straight line basis at 12.5% p.a.
For piurposes of financia'l analysis, a residual value of 25
of capital costs (excluding interest during construction) in
constant 1975 prices has been assumed.
Industria. Projects Department
vevZ-",-rs ? '



\NI A _
TANZANIA
MOROGOR0 INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEAITHER ,;OOD FACTORY  COtP0NENT
OPERATINO COST PROJECTIONS
(Tsh '000)
1979         1980         1981          1982         1983          1984         1985          1986          1998
I TENS
CAPACITY UTIL IZATION                    30.0         60.0         80.0          90.0         90.0          90.0         90.0          90.0            90.0
OFENING STOCK                           293.0        626.0       1346.0        1920.0       2316.0        2478.0       2651.0        2837.0          6390.0
ADD L EATHER PURCHASES                 4717.0      10096.0      12345.0       14886.0      15928.0      17043.0       18236.0      19513.0          43947.0
ACCESS. AND GRINDERY               745.0       1603.0        2286.0       2757.0        2950.0       3157.0       3378.0        3614.0          8142.0
RAW MATERIALS AVAILABLE             5755.0       12325.0      15977.0      19563.0       21194.0      22678.0       24265.0      25964.0          58479.0
LESS CLOSING STOCK                   626.0        1346.0       1920.0        2316.0       2478,0       2651.0        2837.0       3036.0           6837.0
RAW MATERIAL CONSUMED               5129.0       10979.0      14057.0      17247.0       18716.0      20027.0       21428.0      22928.0          51642.0
FXFE.NDIIIURES FOR [HE YEAR
FACTORY STAFF SAL AND WAGES         1470.0        1613.0       1759.0        1922.0       2098.0       2290.0        2499.0       2727.0           7290.0
MANUFACTURING OVERHEADS
TECHNICAL ASST.                      439.0        472.0         -            -             -                          -
I lUBRICANTS                            1.0          3.0          4.0           4.0          5.0          5.0           5,0          6.0             13.0
POWER                                  8.0          17.0         25.0          30.0         32.0         34.0          36.0         39.0             88.0
WATER                                   1.0          3.0          4.0           4.0          5.0          5.0                        6.0             13.0
ITYC. (IF BLDG MACH.                  43.0          46.0         49.0         52.0          56.0         60.0          64.0         68.0            L53.0
RENT                                 360.0         390.0        422.0        457.0         495.0        536.0         581,0        629.0           1643.0
FACTORY SUPPLIES                      51.0         110.0        141.0        172.0         187.0        200.0         214.0        229.0            516.0
WASTE DISPOSAL CHARGES                 13.0         14.0         15.0          16.0         17.0         18.0          19.0         20.0             45.0
MLSCELI.ANEOUS EXPENSES             100.0         215.0        306.0        369.0         395.0        423.0         453.0        485.0           1095.0
TOTAL FOR THE YEAR                2486.0       2883.0        2725.0       3026.0       3290.0        3571.0       3876.0        4209.0         11356.0
OF EN [NG WORF IN PROCESS STOCK        -             177.0        327.0         399.0        482.0         524.0        562.0        603.0           1398.0
TIOTAL WORK IN PROCESS              7615.0      14039.0       16782.0      20273.0      22006.0       23598.0      25304.0       27137.0         62998.1,
LESS WORK IN FROCESS STOCK              177.0        327.0        399.0         482.0        524.0         562.0        603.0        646.0           1 500.(
rOTAl COST OF GOODS MFG.              7438.0      13712.0       16383.0      19791.0       21482.0      23036.0      24701.0       26491.0         61498.0
OFFNING STOCK OF FIN.GOODS              -            589.0        700.0         796.0        959.0       1046.0        1122.0        1203.0          2792.0)
TOTAL GOODS AVAIL FOR SALE          7438.0      14301.0       17083.0      20587,0       22441.0      24082.0       25823.0      27694.0         64290.0
l[ES  FINISHED GOODS                    938.0        700.0        796.0         959.0       1046.0       1122.0       1203.0        1291.0          2996.0
[101AL COST OF GOODS SOLD           6500.0      13601.0       16287.0      19628.0      21395.0       22960.0      24620.0       26403.0         61294.0
OPFRATING EXPENSES
OFF. ADM. +HOUS. SUBS,             313.0         393.0        480.0        579.0         620.0        663.0         709.0        759.0          17tL.(
SELl INS + TRANSPORT EXP.           37.0         943.0       1152.0       1390.0        1488.0       1591.0        1702.0       1822.0          4106.0
(0lA1 OPERATING EXPENSES             350.0       1336.0        1632.0       1969.0        2108.0       2254.0       2411.0        2581.0          5817.0
NON-OFERATING EXPENSES
INTEREST ON IBRD LOANS               249.0         498.0        498.0        486.0         438.0        392.0         344.0        296.0           -
BANK CHARGES AND COMM.                  7.0         15.0         22.0          27.0         29.0         31.0          33.0         35.0             78.0
DIEFRECIATION                        187.0         374.0        374.0        374.0         374.0        374.0         374.0        374.0            -
TOTAL NON-OPERATING EXPENSES           443.0         887.0        894.0         887.0        841.0        797.0         751.0        705.0             78.0
Ind-strial Projects Department
y bruary 1977



ANNEX 23-8
Addendum 5
TANZANIA
HOROORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY COMPONENT
INCOME STATBEMNT. CASH FL- AIID BALANCE SHBEET
1979        19t0          1961         1982         i913         t984         1905         1986            1998
INCOME STATEMENT
(TSH 000)
SALES REVENUE                         7161.0     16260.0       23196.0      27972,0      29930.0      32025.0      34267.0      36666,0        82579,0
LESS COST OP GOODS SOLD            6100.0      13601.0      16287.0      19628.0      21395,0      22960.0      24620.0       26403.0       611294.0
GROSS PROFIT                     1061.0       2659.0       6909.0       8344.0       8535.0       9065.0       9647.0       10263.0        21'25.0
LESS OPERATING EXPENSES               3550 .1      1336.0       1632.0       1969.0       2108.0      2fl54.0       2411.0       2581.0         5817.0
LESS       TIN G EPEROI                711.0       1323.0       5277.0       6375.0       6427.0       6811.0       7236.0       7682.0        15468.0
LESS NN-OPEATINGEXPENSES         443.0        987.0        894.0        987.0         841,0        797.0        751.0        705,0           75,Q
NET PROFET BEFORE TAXES             268.0         436.0      4383.0       5499.0        5586.0       6014.0       6485.0       6977.0        15390.o
TAE   T4%OP NET
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                    121.0        196.0       1972.0       2470.0       2514.0       2706.0       2918.0       3140.0         6926.0
NET PROFIT AFTER rAXES         12-_a=.0  ------24I040.0~ ~            ~ ~ ~ ~~                ~~~~             S_
NET PROFIT AFTER TAXES  147.0     240.0      ~2411.0       3018.0       3072,0       3309,0       3567.0       3837,0         8464.0
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(TSH 000)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX                147.0        240.0       2411.0       3018.0        3072.0       3304,0       3567.0       3837.0      8464.0
DEFRECIATION                        187.0        374.0         374.0       374.0         374.0        374.0        374.0        374.0       -
-- - - -_ _ _ _ _ -- - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - -_ -- - - - - -- - -_ - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - -_ -- - - - - - - -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                334.0         614.0      2785.0        3392.0       3446,0       3682.0       3941.0       4211.0      8464.0
USES OF FUNDS
IBRD LOAN REPYTS.             -    -             -            -            474.0         474.0        474.0        474.0        474.0       -
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                   -            -             -            474.0        474.0        474.0        474.0        474.0       -
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                      334.0        614.0       2785.0       2918.0       2972.0       3208.0       3467.0       3737.0      8464.0
CUR. SURPLUS (DEFICIT) BEG.          5503.0       5837.0       6451.0        9236.0      12154.0      15126.0      18334.0      21801.0    89557.0
CUM. SURPLUS (DEFICIT) END           5837.0       6451.0        9236.0      12154.0      15126.0      18334.0      21801.0      25538.0    98021.0
DENT SERVICE COVERAGE                    2.3          2.2          6.6          4.0          4.3          4.7          5.2          5.9       -
BALACE SHEET
(TSH 000)
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS                     8751.0       9584.0      13062.0       16221.0      19445.0      22922.0   ' 26677.0       30722.0    108630.0
FIXED ASSETS
TOTAL VALUE AT YR. END             2999.0       2999.0        2999.0       2999.0       2999.0       2989,0       2999,0       2999.0       2989.0
LESS ACC. DEPRECIATION               187.0        561.0        935.0       1309.0       16r83.0      2057.0       2431.0       2805.0       2989.0
NET ASSETS AT YR.END               2802.0       2428.0       2054.0        1680.0       1306.0        932 0        558.0        194.0        -
TOTAL ASSETS                      11553.0      12012.0      15116.0       17901.0      20751.0      23054.0      27235.0      30906,0    109630.0
==__ss__ = ==a=so==........               .........    ......  ...ssss .........sss=  =mu=us s= 2. =.==..=
LIABILITIES OWNERS EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES                   2914.0       3133.0       3926.0       4067.0       4319.0       4509.0       4976.0       5194.0      10609.0
LONG-TERM DEBT                     4990.0       4980.0        4990.0       4506.0       4032.0       3559.0       3084.0       2610.0        -
EQUITY                             3512,0       3512.0        3512.0       3512,0       3512.0       3512.0       3512.0       3512.0       3512.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                    147.0        387.0       279890       5816,0       8898.0      12196.0      15763,0      19600.0      94509.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES  EGUITY            11553.0      12012.0      15116.0      17901.0      20751.0      23954.0      27235.0      30906.0    109430.0
CURRENT RATIO                            3.0          3.1          3.4          4.0          4.5          5.0          5.5          5           10.2
IndU.trial PmojoctC D.p.rtSft
FeSrtwT 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FINANCIAL RETURN
(Tsh '000)
-Current Terms - - - - - - - - -                                  Constant Terms_  _ - - - - -    _
Cost of                                                           Cost of
Capital    Goods     Operating            Defla-                   Capital   Goods    Operating
Revenues   Costs      Sold         Costs     Taxes    tor          Revenues   Costs      Sold        Costs     Taxes
1977               765          _          _         _      1.14               -       671        _          _          _
1978       -     6,880          -          -          -     1.23               -     5,593         -         -          -
1979    7,561       -        6,500        350       121    1.33            5,685        -      4,887        800         91
1980   16,260       -      13,601       1,336       196    1.43           11,371               9,511        934        137
1981   23,196       -       16,287      1,632     1,972    1.53           15,161              10,645      1,067     1,289
1982   27,972       -       19,628      1,969     2,470    1.64           17,056              11,968      1,201     1,506
1983   29,930       -      21,395       2,108     2,514    1.75           17,102              12,226      1,205     1,437
1984   32,025       -      22,960       2,254     2,706    1.88           17,035              12,213      1,199     1,439
1985   34,267       -      24,620       2,411     2,918    2.00           17,134              12,310      1,206     1,459
1986   36,666       -      26,403       2,581     3,140    2.15           17,054              12,280      1,200     1,460
1987   39,233       -      28,316       2,761     3,458    2.30           17,058              12,311      1,200     1,503
1988   41,979       -      30,372       2,955     3,785    2.46           17,065              12,346      1,201     1,538
1989   44,918       -      32,573       3,162     4,044    2.63           17,079              12,385      1,202     1,538
1990   48,062       -      34,939       3,383     4,314    2.82           17,043              12,390      1,200     1,530
1991   51,426       -      37,476       3,621     4,599    3.01           17,085              12,450      1,202     1,528
1992   55,026       -      40,201       3,876     4,898    3.22           17,089              12,484      1,204     1,521
1993   58,878       -      43,122       4,148     5,198    3.45           17,066              12,499      1,202     1,507
1994   62,999       -      46,262       4,437     5,508    3.69           17,073              12,537      1.202      1,493
1995   67,409       -      49,629       4,746     5,837    3.95           17,066              12,564      1,202      1,478
1996   72,128       -      53,245       5,080     6,181    4.21           17,133              12,647      1,206      1,468
1997   77,177       -      57,127       5,437     6,543    4.52           17,075              12,639      1,203     1,448
1998   82,579              61,294       5,817     6,926    4.84           17,062   (1,566)   12,664       1,202      1,431
a   Excluding interest during construction.
/ Residual value assumed to be 25% of the capital cost in constant 1975 prices.
The financial return is 33.7% before taxes and 23.2% after taxes.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                             a N
February 1977                                                                                                              4 s



ARE 23 -10
Addendum 7
TANZANIA
NDFROGOP nrDUSTRTAI COMPI2X
T-EATBR GOODS FACTOR-PROMIT BREAK-EVEN POSIT, 1982
1n llion
Tsh
t 28                                                                                       28.0
26
24 
23.0
121 
i22../3                                                                                     
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
20
,<~~Beak-even Pointl
6~~~~~~
, K   /                       ~~~~~~~Fixed Costs
7.9
10       20         30       10        50        60        70        80        90
Percentage of Capacity
Lndustrial Projects Department
February 1977



-/JTNEX 24
TANZtAUI
MOROGORO  INDUSTFL COMPLEX
FINANCIAL RETURN SMISITIVIT TESTS
Before Tax    After Tax
(1)  Base case - analyzed in main report             21.8
(2)  Project implenentation delayed by 1 year
and capital costs increased by 10%             20.2              14 0
(3)  Project implementation delayed by 1 year
and operating costs increased by 10%           14.2              10.0
(4) Wdorst case - project delayed by 1 year,
capital cost increased by 10%, and
revenue decreased by 10%                       12.0               8.h
1/ Internal financial return is the rate of return that equates the discounted
present values of the financial cost and benefit streams of the pro,,ect over
the project life. For the industrial estate, a residual value of Tsh 32.3 m
(US$3.9 m) in constant 1975 prices has been assumed. For the manufacturing
components, a residual value of 257% of the capital costs (excluding interest
during construction) in constant 1975 values has been assumed.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



A SNEX 25-1
TARZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Adjustment of Costs
1.        The general methodology used in this Annex for converting the
financial return to the, economic return was based on the work of L. Squire
and H.G. van der Tak.- Financial capital and manufacturing costs have been
converted to their economic values and are shown in Addenda 1 to 4. For
direct imports, the c.i.f. border price, expressed in local currency at the
official exchange rates, has been used. For local purchases and non-traded
goods, the financial costs have been converted to their border price equiva-
lents through the application of conversion Cactors calculated for all
Tanzania projects by the Program Division. For exported goods, the f.o.b.
prices used are equal to the ex-factory prices at the border. Where no
specif'c conversion factor was available, the standard conversion factor
(SCF)- has been used.  The SCF for Tanzania has been established at .75e3/
2.        The labor at Morogoro will consist of a mixture of urban and
rural, skilled and unskilled workers. It is assumed that the unskilled
labor attracted to Morogoro will be mostly rural, and thus they have been
priced at .45 in border prices. The semi-skilled and skilled labor are
assumed to come from other urban centers and have been priced at .55 and
.75 in border prices, respectively.
30       1.s each of the factory component's outputs are to be sold at
internationally competitive prices, the relevant opportunity costs to the
diownstream factories are the f.o.b. prices of these outputs, adjusted fpr
port-factory transport costs of raw material inputs and finished goods.-
Thus, the raw material supply of leather from the tannery and
1/  Squire, L. and HoG, van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects, published
for the World Bank by Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore and London,
1975.
2/ The SCF represents the weithted average of ratios between international
prices (expressed in local currency at the official exchange rate) and
domestic prices for a wide variety of goods.
3/  In terms of corresponding traditional practice, this implies a shadow
exchange rate of Tsh 11 = US$1 as against the official exchange rate of
Tsh 8e16 = us$1.
4/ Transport costs have been assumed conservatively at Tsh 290 per ton trip
from Morogoro to Dar es Salaam on the Tan-Zam Highway. The actual trans-
port rates charged by trucking companies in Tanzania for general cargo
between Dar es Salaam and Morogoro ranged from Tsh 140 ton trip to Tsh 290
per ton trip for a distance of 180 kms.  Companies in Tanzania usually have
their own trucks for transporting goods, and the costs of such trarsport
services are usually lower than the lower bound of Tsh 140 per ton trip.



-2-
-A, _X 25-2
of canvas from the canvas mill to the footwear factory have been priced
at the f.o.b. prices, adjusted for transport costs, of the imported
equivalent. The same is true with the leather supplied to the Leather
goods factory. Revenues for the industrial estate are economic rents
charged for land, building and housing.
4.        Capital goods are imported duty-free into Tanzania.  All other
taxes and duties have been taken into account in the economic return cal-
culations.
Economic Rate of Return
5.        Each of the individual project components in the Morogoro In-
dustrial Complex has been analyzed as an independent entity. This is so
since each manufacturing component relies only in a small way on the other
components either as a source of raw material or as a market for finished
goods. Transport charges have been conservatively estimated. Power and
water rates have been charged at individual usage rates. The economic rates
of return for the project components are thus to be treabed as those of
economically independent projects, each justifiable on its own merits. It
can be seen from Table 1 below that each of the project components has an
economic rate of return higher than 15%, the discount rate suggested for
Tanzania. The weighted average of 26.4 can be regarded as a lower bound,
as the common location on the industrial estate will probably generate econo-
m,ies with respect to transport costs, infrastructure charges, and charges
for power and water. No estimate has been made by the mission on the magni-
tude of these economies because of limited information. To the extent that
these economies exist, the total project return is bound to be higher.
Table 1: Economic Rate of Return
Component                 Weight             Rate of Return
1.  Industrial Estate              .262                    15.9
2.  Footwear Factory               .710                    29.8
3. Leather Goods Factory           .023                    6.5
Total for Project      1.000                    26.4
Sensitivity Analysis
6.        It has been assumed that the footwear factory will export 80% of
its output to international markets. The base case takes the shoes at f.o.b.
prices adjusted for transport costs (para 2). It is reasonable to assume that
the export prices of shoes will remain constant even with the incremental out-
put of the footwear factory, as the total output of the Morogoro footwear
represents an insignificant percentage of total world supply of footwear.



ANNEX 25-3
-3-
7.       If semi-skilled and skilled labor are border priced differently, with
semi-skilled labor at .75 and skilled labor at 1.00, then the total project
cost decreases to 22.9% as shown in Table 2 below.  As can be seen, the total
proiect return is robust with respect to assumptions about shadow rates of
skilled and semi-skilled labor.
Table 2: Sensitivity Test on Shadow Wage Rate
Component                      Weight                 Economic Return
1.  Industrial Estate                .262                        15.6
2.  Footwear Factory                 .710                        26.4
3.  Leather Goods Factory            .023                        41.9
Total for Project  1.000                        22.9
8.       As in the case of financial analysis sensitivity tests, the results of
four sets of assumptions are tabulated below:
Table 3: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) Sensitivity Tests
1.  Base Case:  ERR = 26.4 (discussed in para  4) of this annex.
2.  Project implementation delayed by 1 year, capital costs increase bhv 10:
ERR = 23.2.
3.  Project implementation delayed by 1 year, operating costs increase by 10%
ERR = 19.0.
It. Worst Case: project implementation delayed by 1 year, revenues decrease by
10%, capital costs increase by 10%, and operating costs increase by 10%:
ERR = 10.6
Other Benefits
9.       The Morogoro Industrial Complex will also provide employment opportuni-
ties for close to 1,500 people. The complex will act as a "growth pole" to which
new industries will be attracted, and will also foster economic growth in general.
The initial industries will in particular stimulate the creation of small and
medium ancillary industries with numerous concommitant benefits such as skill
upgrading (both management and vocational), fiscal income, regional growth, etc.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 25-4 
Addenaum -1-
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE  -   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ADJUSTMENT OF CAPITAL COSTS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(Tsh '000)
Financial Value            Economic Value at Border Price
Direct    Local                 Direct     Local
Imports   Purchases   Total    Imports    Purchases    Total
I. Infrastructure
- site preparation          497       1,491      1,988        497       1,118       1,615
- roads & drainage        1,638       6,550      8,188      1,638       4,913       6,551
- water supply            4,476       1,918      6,394      4,476       1,439       5,915
- power supply            2,632         165      3,097      2,632         349       2,981
- sewerage                7,040       3,773     10,813      7,040       2,830       9,870
II. Superstructure
- standard factories      5,859       7,162     13,021      5,859       5,372      11,231
- housing                 6,924       6,923     13,847      6,924       5,192      12,116
TIII  Site Eggipment           36(.         90        450        360          68         428
TV. Consulting & Eng'z
Services                4.296       1,432      5,728      4,296       1.44          370
Total      33,722     2980O4      63,526    33,722       22,355     56,077
Percentage of Financial Value                       100.0%                             88.3%
1/ Direct imports are valued at cif prices, and SCF = .75 is applied to all local purchases
of non-traded goods and/or for which specific factors were not available. Local pur-
chases of traded goods are border priced at f.o.b. export prices.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANINEK 25-
Addendiz. 1-2
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ADJUSTMENT OF OPERATING COSTS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(Tsh '000)
Economic Value at
Market Value     Border Prices       Remark
Sa'Laries and Wages                 229               138            See Note
Administration                      172               129              SCF
Maintenance                         750               563              SOF
Total      1,151              830
Percentage of Financial Value       100%               72%
Note:  Unskilled labor has been border priced at .45, semi-skilled at .5*,
and skilled labor at .75.
Industrial Projects Departzent
February iP77



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE - EOONOMIC ANALYSIS
ECONIOMIC RETURN
(Tsh 'Ooo)
a/Current Terms                                           Constant Terms
Capital Costs-'   Operating Costs  Revenues  Deflator    Capital Costs   Operating Costs   Revenues
1977                 1h4,024                -              -        1.14           12,302          
1978                 22,437                 144           480       1.23           18,241             117             390
1979                 19,633                 252         5,660       1.33           14,762             189           4,256
1980                (15,093)                270         8,232       1.43          (10,555)            189           5,757
1981                   -                  1,123        10,373       1.53             -                734           6,780
1982                   -                  1,201        11,237       1.64             -                732           6,852
1983                   -                  1,286        12,175       1.75             -                735           6,957
1984 4                                    1,375        13,189       1.88             -                731           7,015
1985                   -                  1,471        2h,286       2.00             -                734           7,143
1986                   -                  1,574        15,476       2.15             -                732           7,198
1987                                      1,685        16,765       2.30             -                733           7,289
1988                   -                  1,803        18,162       2.46             -                733           7,383
1989                   -                  1,929        19,674       2.63             -                733           7,481
1990                   -                  2,0614       21,314       2.82             -                732           7,558
1991                   -                  2,208        23,089       3.01             -                734           7,671
1992                   -                  2,362        25,013       3.22             -                734           7,768
1993                                      2,529        27,097       3.45             -                733           7,854
1994                                      2,705        29,354       3.69             -                733           7,955
1995                                      2,894        31,800       3.95             _                734           8,051
1996(                                     3,097        34,4146      4.21 .                            736           8,182
1997                   -                  3,314        37,316       4.52             -                 733          8,256
1998                   2/                 3,546        40,426       h.8%          (20,932)            733           8,352
1/ Excluding interest during construction.
2/ Residual value taken as total land development cost plus half of the investment cost on buildings.                       ;N
The economic rate of return is 15.85%.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 25-7
Addendum 2-1
TANZANIA
MOROCORO INDUSTRIAL COMPIEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY - ECONOMIC ANAIYSIS
ADJUSTMENT OF CAPITAL COSTS FOR  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Tsh '000)
Financial Value            Economic Value at B3order Prices
Direct    Local                    Direct    local
Imports    Purchases    Total      Imports    Purchases   Total           Remarks
Ecuipment             38,L13       1,793       40,206      38,413       1,345      39,758         See Note
Other Assets             -         6,368        6,368         -         4,776       4,776           SCF
Civil Works              -        22,732       22,732         -        17,049      17,049           SCF
Consultancy &
Eng'g Services       9,187       7,430       16,617      9,187        5,573      14,760           SCF
Training               2,490         689        3,179      2,490          517       3,007         See Note
Contingencies         21,702      16,977       38,679     21,702       12,733      34,435         See Note
Net Working Capital  29,266       38,612       67,878      29,266      28,959      58,225         See Note
Post Factory Trans-
port Costs        -            174          174        -            131         131          SCF
Total       101,058       94,775     195,833    101,058        71,083    172,141
Percentage of
Financial Value                                100.0                               87.9
Note: Direct imports are border priced at c.i.f. import prices, and SCF , .75 is
applied to all local purchases that are non-traded and/or for which specific
factors were not available.   Local purchases of traded goods are border priced
at f.o.b. export prices.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ADJUSTMENT OF OPERATING COSTS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(Tsh '000)
Financial Value                    Economic Value at Border Prices          Remarks
Direct Imports   Local Purchases  Total    Direct Imports  Local Purchases  Total
Local Raw Material                      -                47,896      47,896           -               47,896      47.896   f.o.b.
Imported Raw Material                7h,025               74,025     74,025         7h,025               -        74,025   c.i.f.
Factory Staff Sal. & Benefits           -                 19,608     19,608           -               14,706      14,706See note belo-
Power                                   _                  1,496      1,496           -                1,122       1,122   SCF
Water                                   _                     43          43          -                    32         32   SCF
Maintenance                             -                  3,726      3,726           -                2,795       2,795   SCF
Factory Supplies                        -                  1,232       1,232          -                   924        924   SCF
Rent                                    -                    910         910          -                  683         683   SCF
Waste Disposal Charges                  -                    254         254          -                   191        191   SCF
Miscellaneous                           -                  3,690       3,690          -                2,768       2,768   SCF
Office Adm. Sal & Benefits,             -                  1,456      1,456           -                1,092       1,092   SCF
Housing Subs. & Gen. Exp,              -                  2,133      2,133           -                1,600       1,600   SCF
Post Factory Transport Costs            -                  2,320      2,320           -                1,740       1,740   SCF
Other Selling Exp.                      -                  8.345      8,345                            6,259       6.259   SCF
Total                           74,025              93,109   1T?,114           74,02.t           81,808    1558033
Percentage of Financial Value                                        100.0%                                        93.2%
Note: Direct imports are border priced at c.i.f  import prices, and SCF = .75 is applied to all local purchases that are
non-traded and/or for which specific factors were not available. Local purchases of traded goods are border priced
at f.o.b. export prices. Unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled labor are border priced at .45, .55, and .75, respec-
tively.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977
X) C



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAK   COMPLEX
FOOTWEAR FACTORY - ECOINOMI7 ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Tslh  '0)7
1/ Current Terms                                                Constant  Terms               _e_
Capital Costs      Operating Costs    Revenues    Deflator          Capital Costs   Operating Costs    Feveiiues
1977            51,641 -l                                         1.14              45,299
1978            51,641                --                            .23             41,98               _
1979            314,428                                 -         1.33              25,886 
1980            17,213            105,3h'           143,887       1.143             12,037            66,t61           100,620
1981             8,607            133,70'          025,265        1.53               5,625            81,b48          134,160
1982             8,606            158,71L           4147,525      1.64               5,208            90,196           150,930
1983               -              172,813           261 ,1212     1.75                 -              92,035           150,930
1984               _              185,b(,-          282 617       1.88                 -              91,941           150,328
1985               _              198,976           302,1400      2.00                 -              92,723           151,200
1986               -              213,487           323,568       2.15                 -              92,514           150,497
1987               -              229,0(f'          346,218       2.30                 _              92,823           150,530
1988               -              245,800           370,4153      2.46                 -              93,124           150,591
1989               -              263,762           396,385       2.63                 -              93,17C           150,717
1990               -              283,055            424,132      2.82                 -              93,514           150,401
1991               -              303,775            453,821      3.01                 -              94,059           150,771
1992               _              326,028           485,588       3>22                 -              94,366           150,804
1995                              349,925           519,579       3.145                -              94,53C           150,603
i994               -              375,591           555,950       3.69                 -              94,865           150,6614
1995                              1 403,162         594,867       3.95                 -              95,12(           150,599
1996                              1 432,782         636,508        4.21                -               95,808          151,190
1997                              1 (Lb,(01         681,0014      1.52                 -              95,798           150,67Th
1998               2/             1098,791          728,738       4.84             (34,020)           96,014           150, >66
1/ Excluding interest during construction.
2/ Residual values are assumed to be 25' of the capital costs ln constant 1975 prices.
The economic rate of return is 29.8k
Tndustrial Proiects Department
Fspbria~' 7977



TANZANIA
MORPGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ADJUSTMENT OF CAPITAL COSTS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(Tsh '000)
Financial Value                  Economic Value at Border Prices
Direct    Local                      Direct       Local
Imports   Purchases      Total       Imorts       Purchases    Total         Remarks
Equipment               1,071         -          1,071        1,071          -        1,071          See Note below
Other Assets              -          233           233          -           175          175             SCF
Consulting & Eng'g        102          6          108           102           5         107              SCF
Contingencies             525        139          664           525         104         629          See Note below
Post-Factory Transport    -           66            66          -            50           50             SCF
Net Working Capital     1,220      4,283        5,503         1,220       3,212       4,432          See Note below
Total       2,918      4,727        7,645        2,918        3,546       6,1464
Percentage of Financial Value                     100.0                                84.6
Note: Direct imports are border priced at c.i.f. values and SCF   .75 is applied to all local purchases that are
non-traded and/or for which no specific factors are available. Local purchases that are traded are valued
at their f.o.b. prices.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977
I 



ANNEX 25-_l
Addendum 3-2
TANZANIA
I4DROGORO IINDUSTRVIP L iCOLEX
LEATIER GOODS FACTORY - ECONOIIIC ANALYSIS
ADJTJSTiTU=T OF OPERATING COSTS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
(Tsh 1000s)
Financial Value                 Economic Value at B3order Prices
Direct   Local                      Direct       Local
Imports  Purchases   Total          Imports      Purchases   Total    Remarks
Leather                -       14,88(    14,88C            -           14,886    14,886    f.o.b.
Accessories           2,757        -       2,757         2,757            -        2,757    c.i.f.
Factory Staff, Sal.   -         1,922      1,922           -            1,468      1,468  see Note be]
& enefits
LubricantS             -                       4           -                3          3      SCF
Power                               30        30           -               23         23      SCF
Water                  _             4         4           -                3          3      SCF
2-iaintenance          -            52        52           -               39         39      SCF
Factore   Supplies     -           172       172           -              129        129      SCF
Xent                   -          414        414           -              311        311      SCF
w-'aste I D:sp
Charges               -                      lc           -               12         12     SCF
<.sceri Mleos          -           369       369           -              277        277     SCF
Office  d&., Housing
Subs. & Gen. Exp.   -            579       579           -               3         434     SCF
Pori-Factor Trans-
porL C(sts           -           250       250           -              188        188      SCF
Otben Sel]inc
Dist.Lxp.                  1,14i      11140           -              85         855     SCF
Total                   19,838    22,595        2,757           18,628    21,385
Percentage of Financiai value            100.0                                   94.6
Ilote: Direct imporLs are valued at c.i.f. prices and SCF=.75 is applied to all local
purcrases that are non-Lraded and for whicii no specific factors are availalble.
Local purchases that are traded are valued at their f.o.b. prices.  Unskilled,
semi-skilled, and skilled labor are border priced at .15, .55, and .75, respectively.
Industrial Projects Depart-ment
February 1977



ANNEX 25-12
Addendum 3-3
TANZA NIA
MORCGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
LEATHER GOODS FACTORY - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC RETURN
Current Terms                                               Constant Terms
Capital   Operating
Co0ts i    Costs        Revenues           Deflator      Capital Costs  Operating Costs         Revenues
1977       647           -                              1.14             568            _
1978     5,820           -             _                1.23           4,732            _
1979       -           6,480         7,561              1.33             -            4,872                  5,685
1980       -          14,130        16,260              1.143            -            9,881                 11,371
1981       -          16,951        23,196              1.53             -           11,079                 15,161
1982       -          20,431        27,972              1. 614           -           12,458                 17,056
1983       -          22,234        29,930         -   1.75              -           12,705                 17,102
1984       -          23,852        32,025              1.88             -           12,687                 17,035
1985       -          25,571        34,267              2.00             -           12,786                 17,134
1986       -          27,419        36,666              2.15             -           12,753                 17,054
1987       -          29,399        39,233              2.30             -           12,782                 17,058
1988       -          31,527        41,979              2.46             -           12,816                 17,065
1989       -          33,805        44,918              2.63             -           32,854                 17,079
1990       -          36,253        48,062              2.82             -           12,856                 17,043
1991       -          38,878        51,426              3.01             -           12,916                 17,085
1992       -          141,697       55,026              3.22             -           12,949                 17,089
1993       -          44,717        58,878              3.45             -           12,961                 17,066
1994       -          47,961        62,999              3.69             -           12,998                 17,073
1995       -          51,439        67,409              3.95             -           13,023                 17,066
1996       -          55,175        72,128              4.21             -           13,106                  17,133
1997       -          59,186        77,177             14.52             -           13,094                 17,075
1998       h/         63,487        82,579             )1.84          (1,325)        13,117                  17,062
a/ Excluding  interest during construction.
b/ Residual values are assumed to bo 25% of the capital costs in constant 1975 prices.
The economic rate of return is V .1j).%
Industrial Proiects Department
Februa ' 971



ATNNEX 26-1
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL CCMPLEX
FOREIGN EXCHANGE IMPACT
1.        The table on the next page estimates the foreign exchange effects of
the manufacturing component of the project, assuming that the sources of foreign ex-
change are: (i) IBRD capital contributions during the project construction period
and (ii) the foreign exchange generated by the two manufacturing units after
start-up. The assumptions for the table are: (i) revenues from exports are
in foreign exchange;  (ii)  80% of the output are exported overseas;  (iii)  foreign
exchange component of operating costs were derived from assuming that theforeign
components of the following categories were: chemicals, imported grindery - 100%,
fuel - 80%, maintenance - 90%, office administration expenses - 25%, general ex-
penses - 50%, selling and distributing expenses - 75%; (iv) leather and canvas
in the production costs were assumed to be costed at their economic values, i.e.
as if thev had been exported.
2.        As shown on the attached table, the cumulative net foreign exchange
surplus amounts to US$153.2 million in constant 1975 prices (or US$741.5 mil-
lion in current prices) over the years 1977-1998.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRLAL COMPLEX
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EFFECTS-
(U8$'O0 - 1975 priren)Z'
foul pment
Expart                           and                             Consulting &                     Capitalized       Perm nent                                 Debt          To.t.             Net             Cumulative
IBRD    Revenues_  Total Inflows    Other Assetu   Civil Works    Engineering Servires   Training    Interest               Working Capital   Operating Casts_/  Repayments          Outflows   Surplus (Deficit)  Srplus (Deficit)
1977      4,237         -          4,237              1,975            569                   647                -          425                -                    -                              3,616            621                  621
1978      3,878         -          3,878              1,977            526                   612               175          525              120                    4                 -           3,939             (61)                560
1979      2,391       548          2,939              1,220            324                   369               162          338            2,651                    6                 _           5,070         (2,131)              (1,571)
1980       1,112   10,794         11,906                521            151                   171                -            -                -                 3,557                 -           4,400          7,506                4,935
1981         520   14,392         14,912                243             71                    80                -            -                -                 4,236                 -           4,630         10,282               15,217
1982        485   16,191          16,676                227             66                    75                -            -                -                 4,688              7,227         12,283          4,393               19,610
1983          -    16,196         16,196                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,783             6,728          11,511          4,685               24,295
1984               16,131         16,131                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,779             6,324          11,103          5,028               29,323
1985          -    16,225         16,225                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,819             5,883          10,702          5,523               34,846
1986          -    16,150         16,150                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,810              5,499         10,309          5,841               40,687
1987          -    16,153         16,153                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,824             5,141           9,965          6,188               46,875
1988          -    16,160         16,160                         -                 -                            -            -                -                 4,840             4,809           9,649          6,511               53,386
1989          _    16,173         16,173                 -              -                                       _ -                                             4,856             4,485           9,341          6,832               60,218
1990          -    16,139         16,139                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,862             4,202           9,064           7,075              67,293
1991          -    16,179         16,179                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,888             3,928           8,816           7,363              74,656
1992          -    16,183         16,183                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,904                 70          4,974         11,209               85,865
1993          -    16,161         16,161                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,912                 -           4,912          11,249              97,114
1994          -    16,167         16,167                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,930                 -           4,930          11,237             108,332
1995          -    16,161         16,161                 -              -                     -                 -            -                -                 4,943                 -           4,943          11,218             119,550
1996          -    16,224         16,224                 -               -                    -                 -            -                -                 4,979                 -           4,979          11,245             130,795
1997          -    16,169         16,169                 -               -                    -                 -            -                -                 4,978                 -           4,978          11,191             141,986
1998          _    16,157         16,157                 -               -                    -                 -            -                -                 4,991                 -           4,991          11,166             153,152
1/  Only the n-nuEacturing   o.ponentn are taken into account
2/  DIflator an per Anmex 21.
3/  Anssues diract enparts of the nanufa-tring unitn as follows:  80% of  hoen and 807, of leather good.
4/  These foreign eachenge rompnenntsof operating costs san derived from the coot atructures as of 1982 and were the reult. nf the following foreign exchange perrentages as foliow:  Fuel - 80%, Msintenance - 90%, Offie and
Ad=iniatr-tiv  Ex .pnses - 25%, General Enpennes - 507, Selling *nd Distributing Enpenses - 755%, Chemirals -  100%, Aceneorien and  Grindery - 100%, Other Imported Mterinln - 100%, Miuellanenos Expenses - .60%.  Facto-y labor,
power, water, rent, waste dispnsal  rharges, etc. wre  -ssneed to be expenditures in locl currency.  Leather and casno, nlthnogh locally ovailable, were tbern ot their economic cats, i.e. at the prices they world have mallard
if eported.
Industrial Projccts Department
Feiruary 1977



TAN'Z i7IA
N,jO` oi   T      T.    CorITL,EX
A. Textiles5
CJ Ott t,c:       izLix-long staple cotutor (1 -1/32-1-3/32 i) suitable for
spinidri- yarn ur to 50 cc.
pe.'ter:        A de-ahee for the opening and/or cleaning or fibers, found
on the opener or on picker machines.  Its teeth, blades, or
bars beat against lazyers of fibers -i4'ich are fed to it at a
sloi- rate.
Blow room      The machinery for opening/blending and cleaning of cotton and
equipment:   forming a uniform fiber sheet called a lap.
-,R cotton:    Shorter staple cotton, consisting of overripe, off-color and
wealker filers vith a trash content of up to 12dp.
Cardin;g:     -An operation w-hich opens and cleans fibers, separ,.tes the
indi-Adit.1 fibers and delivers them in  sliver fonr.
I, -l-S     ThI-uck fabric maade of coarse yr-n. (In Tanzania, B,R cotton
wid.l be the raw ijmaterial').
Co n er txi    General term  for a vJariety of processes by which gre-y wovan
fabrics are converted into finished goods. Bleacingfl, mercer-
isin-, dyeing, lpriLnt ag as well as applicationL of resins and
chemicals in finishing are some of the converting processes.
Denim/drill:  IvashEble, inexmensivae, strong, stout twilled cloth, made of
si-,g,e yarns, eithn d&yed in the piece or woven with coLored
r;m  a,nd whi-e filling; used for overalls, s1cfts, etc.  Now
also made in fancy plaids, dobbies, stripes and soi-etines
-rinted.
D,eig-         Tne process of coloring msterials.  Piece dcreing: .e;ing 'sin
the piece"l after wea-ving.
Fabric:        A collective term applied to cloth no matter how.f consI1t-ructed
or manufactured and regardless of the kind of fiber from Which
maRde.  In structwire it is planar produced by interlacing yat-rns,
fibers or filamernts.  Teftile fabrics include tne followmig
varieties: bonded, braided, felted,  knitted, and woven.
Finished        Cloth f.ter passing through finishing processes, ready for
Goods:        market.
Grade:          Cotton: the quality for rawf cotton determined by its color,
dirt content, etc.
Grey goods:    WIoven or knitted fabrics which have received no bleach  ig,
dyeLng, or finishing treatment.



Lanminated     Two types of thin canvas glued together by means of rubber
Canvas:       or chemicals.
Loom:          A weaving machine for producing a fabric by interlacing warp
and filling yarns.
Scouring:      (L)  Removing the sizing a d tint used on the warp yarn in weaving.
(2) General cleaning of the fabric prior to dyeing.
Sizing:        (1)  Operation consisting of applying onto yarns compoumds such
as starch, gelatin, oil, wax, or any other suitable ingredients
to aid the process of fabrication or to control fabric charac-
teristics, e.g. crepe fabrics.  (2)  The conpounds used in this
process. (3) Warp sizing is generally referred to as slashing.
Spinning:      (1)  General: The process of making yarns or cordage from fibers,
tow, or liquid materials. (2) Yarn from fiber: The formation
of a yarn by a combination of drawing or drafting and twisting
operations applied to prepared fiber masses such as rovings.
Spinning       A machine by means of which the roving is drawn out to the required
Frame:        fineness, the twist is inserted, and the finished yarn is wound
onto bobbins or other packages.  There are four types: cap, ring,
flyer, and mule.
Wviater        The process of passing canvas through vats containing water
Proofing:     proofing solution and then passed on to three roller padders to
impregnate the solution. The wet canvas is then dried through
hot flue chambers.
Weaving:       The process of manufacturing a fabric by interlacing a series
of filling (crosswise) yarns with a series of warp (lengthwise)
yarns at right angles.
Width:         The distance between the two selvages of moven cloth.
Yarn:          A generic term for continuous strands of textile fibers or fila-
ments in a form suitable for kiitting, weaving, or otherwise
intertwining to form a textile product. It may comprise: (a) a
number of fibers twisted together, (b) a number of filaments
laid together without a twist (a zero-twist yarn), (c) a number
of filaments laid together with more or less twist, or (d) a
single filament with or without twist, a monofilament.
Yarn,          Yarns made from fibers that have been carded but not combed in
carded:       the manufacturing process. Note: Most spun yarns are of this
type.
Yarn number-   A measure of linear density. For cotton, the cotton count (c.c.)
ing system:   is defined as the number of basic hanks (840 yd. lengths) per
pound. Hence, the finer the yarn the higher the count.



B. Leather
Chrome         Tanning with chrome salts, the process is usally carried out
tanning:      in revolving dr&n=s; tanning renders the animal hides and skins
resistantQ to deconposition and bacterial decay and inproves
their physical properties.
Crust          Semi-finished leather (second stage of leather processing often
leather:      wet-blue).
Dried Hides:   Air-dried cattle hides or goat and sheep skins to inhibit bacterial
decay during preservation prior to transfer to tanning; the word
hides is usually used for cattle and skins for goats and sheep.
Vegetable      Tanning process vhereby extracts derived from tannin-bearing plants
tanning:      or barks are allowed to act on hides and skins.
Wet-blue       Semi-finished leather (first stage of processing of raw hides
leather:      and skins).
Wet-salted     Hides and skins that have been treated with a brine solution and
hides and     coarse salt over a period of days to inhibit bacterial growth;
skins:        after ci-Ing with salt, hides and skins may be stored for prolonged
periods 'without deterioration.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977






UG AN DA                                        K E                                          36                          TANZANIA
7>Rs2-  1 C ORI AeTo    KEN YA  XMOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
PROJECT LOCATION
RWANDA                                             Bukimo     M     A /          A
S  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o~UPROJEC LOCATiIN                                                                   -MUIN BMOWARIES
MAIlROADS               DISTRICT   QARIES
LAJKE                -     RAILWAYS                   W61-INATIGNA1,6010NDARES
b                                     AfA TR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- i-TARZAM RAILWAY
/ ;    bondo               SH    I T AN                    A L
\~~~~~~~~~ 'N                ( .      Kho                         A                 b                                   K        ugr  Idu LVNJARO 
|                 o mbomi
Urambo         ~ --                   o o                               MsOZU                   4O a
j  ZAMBiA                <---tJ  o M   ig                                                     L Cle D  L bdi~~~~~~~~~~~AEMB
l  f  >  /   \>        2, >          4 J <   Nachingwe~~~Kibrosh
| f   |  gOKiLOkE7Ew5               \           )    i. 8 I/<Songea                  f    <t<anyon_(
5V   [QO   t50  i300           >          \  D \  /    /                        9        Tunduru              r- SI                         I r I  P
+]E                                       Js                                                         mu    G Sbmb  D                            R UErS SALAA
TA ElNil.I)dood hildomY;2eVM  LA WI P+ 6o  ,, JM OZ  M  IQ UE 00 n
nSplyedrSl LIC cup;s yr                                                      I I                                                
IOFi2tdjt.lw. 1 .{,ing






IBRO 12053
_~~~j                                Z   X jZ .
0  \t\X  t <<-J ' ' ,, ' "' '' 0 'x '~~~~~~~   ~Y18
,1   ? \        X           --'   i:;~~
/)  aX                X\    ' ' " S~~~~~~~~~
Nt?  ~1alW \  \ ) q_  \0



