Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repat No. P-2014-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
:NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO-THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
March 15, 1977
|Th doeimt ha a       bid  iurIbWn sad way be moid by reeWeeft mly In dh pu,tu_  d
thur okial dv1k. lb eut   may ad  iwberwie be dIelksi 1 hwW     auk S_mhouu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Tanzania Sh   -   US$0.12
US$1.00       X   TSh8.30
CAs the Tanzania Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed'rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which'is close to the
recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
NDC       - National Development Corporation
TANU      - Tanganyika African National Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AN INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX AT MOROGORO
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
to the United Republic of Tanzania totalling the equivalent of US$23 million
to assist in financing the development of an industrial complex at Morogoro.
A loan of $11.5 million is proposed on standard Third Window terms,
repayment of principal to start on January 15, 1983 and final maturity on
January 15, 2001, at an interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum; a second loan
of $11.5 million would be for 20 years including 4-112 years of grace at an
interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum. The proceeds of both loans would be
onlent by the Borrower to the National Development Corporation at 10 percent
per annum for 15 years including 4-1/2 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
A. Introduction
2.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in 1972. While it has been some four years, therefore,
since the last comprehensive economic report was issued, a substantial volume
of economic and sector work has been carried out during this period. A three-
volume industry and mining sector report and a special economic study on the
fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentralization of Government were dis-
tributed in April 1975. In early 1974, at the Government's invitation, Bank
personnel participated in a special task force which assessed the impact of
the increase in petroleum prices on the Tanzanian economy. A further analysis
of recent economic developments was contained in the Program Loan President's
Report (No. P-15L7a-TA of November 25, 1974), and the Government's progress in
implementing policies and programs designed to close the balance of payments gap
was reported in a special memorandum to the Executive Directors (SecM75-687) in
September 1975.   In March 1976, also at the request of the Government, Bank
staff assisted a Government task force in the preparation of a report which
analyzed the fiscal implications of the new targets for universal primary
education and universal rural water supply. These sector reports and special
economic studies have formed the basis for our dialogue on economic policy
issues with the Government and for the development of our program of operations.
1/ With the exception of paragraphs 39-42 which relate to Tanzania's eligibility
for Third Window lending and the East African Community, Part I is identical to
Part I of the President's Report on a Proposed Program Credit to the United
Republic of Tanzania, Report No. P-1781a-TA dated February 22, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Finally, a basic economic mission was conducted in July-August 1976. The basic
economic report is currently under preparation and it will be discussed with
the Government in Spring 1977. The updating report on the Tanzanian economy
(Annex V to the President's Report on a Proposed Program Credit, No. P-1781a-TA
dated February 22, 1977) is based on the findings of the basic mission.
B. General Background
2
3.        Tanzania has a total area of approximately 945,000 km . The population
of 14.8 million (mid-1975 estimate), which is increasing at about 2.7 percent
per year, is predominantly rural. About 93 percent of the population lives in
rural areas, and 90 percent of the labor force is engaged in agriculture. Agri-
culture and related activities constitute the largest single sector in the
Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from the sector and
half of this constitutes subsistence production. Agricultural exports, which
account for 80 percent of total exports, include mainly cotton, coffee, cashewnuts
and sisal. With a per capita income of only $170, Tanzania is classified as one
of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the United Nations. (Country
data are provided in Annex 1.)
C. Government Development Objectives and Strategy
4.         Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually unrivalled in
Africa. The TANSI 1/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early
1950s. For the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration of early 1967,
Tanzania has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the
eradication of absolute poverty, and economic and social transformation.
The fundamental strategy underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized
rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution.
5    ~    In restructuring the political, economic and social life of the
country the leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching
institutional reforms. The most important of these measures are well known:
most large-scale units in manufacturing, finance and wholesale trade have
been nationalized; the Government has sharply increased its share of revenue
in GDP through progressive taxation; a significant portion of public expenditure
control has been delegated to the regions and districts; and incomes policy
has prevented a further widening of the urban-rural gap and has narrowed wage
differentials within the formal urban sector.
/   TkNJ (the mainland political party) was merged with the 7anzihbr nolitical
party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now
called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 3 -
b.        Rural development receives the highest priority in Tanzania inasmuch
as over 90 percent of the population, most with per capita incomes of less than
$100 per year, live in the rural areas. The approach to rural development is
through villagization. Collecting the scattered population into villages is
seen as essential for transforming production methods and to facilitate the
provision of services such as agricultural extension, credit, input supply,
marketing, roads, water, schools and health.
7.        Mass mobilization of the population is facilitated by the political
party organization which starts with the ten-family cell and is linked
successively to village, division, ward, district, region and national levels.
Party representatives at each level participate in organizing the development
effort. In 1972 the central government administration was decentralized, giving
substantial planning and implementation authority to regions and districts.
Each district and region is expected to have its own development plan and budget
subject to central government guidelines, control and finance; between 1972/73
and 1975/76 the regional share of the government development budget has risen
from 8 percent to 14 percent.
8.        The overriding goal is to develop a socialist economic system.    In
furtherance of this objective new government parastatal enterprises have been
established in virtually all sectors of the economy. There is also state
intervention in market pricing; prices of capital, labor, land, imports,
industrial and agricultural products and consumer goods are controlled directly
and by indirect methods such as import licensing.
D. Economic Performance
(i) Background to the 1974 Economic Crisis
9         Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at factor cost was growing at
an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population growing at 2.7 percent per
annum per capita output was rising at only 1.8 percent per year on average.
Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP while gross investment was sustained
at between 20 and 25 percent of GDP, extremely high rates for a country at
Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth rate of GDP was not
commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort, however, in part
because of the high proportion of investment which was directed into slow-
gestation infrastructure and social services projects such as the transportation
links with Zambia, but also because of sluggish growth in the agricultural sector
and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enterprises.
10.       During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance of the export
sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by increasing
capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms. The overall
balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73, resulting in
a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly over $150 million
at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months' imports.



- 4-
(ii) The Economic Crisis of 1974
11.       In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic crisis,
caused in part by drought and dramatic import price escalation. Failure of rains
in late 1973 and early 1974 caused major declines in production and marketings of
the major foodgrains. In response the Government was compelled during 1974 to
import large quantities of grain, particularly maize, on commercial terms in
order to alleviate the hardships inflicted by drought. At the same time
the production of Tanzania's main export crops was also affected by drought,
and the resultant declines in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking
advantage of the commodity price boom during 1974. On the import side, total
cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent between 1973 and 1974,
despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of these factors the trade
deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in 1974 while the
overall balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit of $140 million. 1/
Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to shortages of imported raw
materials resulting from the growing foreign exchange constraint, and to interrup-
tions in power and water supplies. While production declined, domestic demand
increased rapidly because of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The
imbalance between domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in
import prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
12.       Although the severity and suddenness of the crisis were largely the
result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems were fore-
shadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially, were subject
to Tanzanian control. One important adverse trend was in the composition of
growth; the rate of growth of material production had been falling for several
years and the overall GDP growth rate had been maintained only by an acceleration
in the growth of services, particularly of public administration. Much of the
slump in agricultural production was due to poor weather but the average growth rate of
agricultural output failed to exceed the rate of growth of population for the six
years prior to the harvest failure of 1974. In the modern sector many enterprises
experienced declining labor productivity which has been attributed to lack of
incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while the
ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960s, reaching a high of 18
percent in 1970, it had declined to 15 percent by 1973. Public savings were also
falling as a share of GDP, mainly due to the slow growth of parastatal enter-
prises' surpluses and the rapid increase in government recurrent expenditures.
13.       The crisis of 1974 was also aggravated by a series of steps which were
taken before the full extent of the country's economic difficulties was perceived.
First, the minimum wage was increased by over 40 percent on May 1, 1974, thereby
raising average labor costs by about 35 percent. The intention was to compensate
low-paid wage earners for past and anticipated future cost of living increases;
the effect was to worsen inflation and to aggravate the decline in domestic
saving. The second step was the acceleration in the pace of villagization
during 1974 which led to the physical relocation of several million people.
1/ The overall balance of payments gap was financed largely through drawings from
the IMF (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 Oil Facility) and by a
rapid depletion of reserves which fell to $60 million (net) at the end of
1974, equivalent to only one months' import requirements.



- 5 -
This mass villagization program inevitably caused some disruption in agricultural
production, in part because of inadequate planning and preparation. Because
the newly settled peasants understandably concentrated their efforts on growing
subsistence food crops, and were encouraged to do so by the Government, the
marketed surplus of export crops in affected areas bore a disproportionate share
of the disruption (cotton is the prime example). Thirdly, in late 1974 and
early 1975 the TANU Party leadership advanced the target dates for universal
primary education (UPE) and universal rural water supply (URWS) from 1989
to 1977 and from 1991 to 1980, respectively. In large part the pressure for
rapid expansion of social services arose from the accelerated villagization
program - the newly-settled villagers expected the benefits of improved
social services - although the declaration of these new targets should also
be seen as exhortative attempts to mobilize self-help efforts by the villagers
themselves.
(iii) The Government's Response to the Economic Crisis
14.       Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized the
Government formulated a comprehensive program of policy actions to bring the
balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of the development
effort. The principal elements of the program included a reallocation of
investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures to raise agricultural
output, and constraints on wages and on public and private consumption. This
program was reviewed with the Bank at the time of appraisal and negotiation
of the program loan in late 1974, and approval of that loan was based on the
Bank's agreement with and support for the proposed program. These measures were
described in the President's Report for the program loan (Report No. P-1517a-TA).
The Government has, over the past two years, successfully carried out most of
this program, as described below.
15.       From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, particularly
for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Automobile imports were
curtailed drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. In addition,
overseas travel allowances for business and tourism were reduced, certain
dividend remittances were suspended, and remittances by residents to relatives
abroad were restricted. Import licensing was further tightened in 1975,
leading to sharp volume declines in imports of consumer goods, including textiles,
and industrial raw materials and spare parts. The Government has also taken
several steps since early 1974 to restrain domestic consumption of petroleum
and petroleum products. These measures include increases in the domestic retail
prices of gasoline and related products to reflect the full rise in import
costs, the mandatory closing of petrol stations on weekends, reduction of speed
limits, and a ban on Sunday driving during certain hours.
16.       In addition to restricting the volume of non-food consumer goods
imports, the Government took further politically difficult steps to slow down
the rate of growth of private consumption demand. Retail prices of basic food-
stuffs were raised sharply in late 1974, thereby eliminating retail subsidies
which had previously benefitted primarily urban consumers. Indirect taxes on
textiles, beer and cigarettes were raised to absorb excess consumer demand for
these items, and further tax increases on these and other consumer items have
been incorporated in the 1975/76 and 1976/77 budgets. User charges for water
and electricity have also been raised. WVhile consumer prices have increased
substantially an extremely restrictive wage and salary policy has been followed



- 6 -
since May 1974. The minimum wage was frozen between May 1974 and May 1975,
at which time it was increased by 12 percent for urban workers and by 15
percent for rural workers while the wage freeze was maintained for all
employees earning more than T.Sh. 440 per month. There have been no further
legislated wage and salary increases since May 1975. In the future wage
increases will be geared to improvements in labor productivity.
17.       On the production side, the Government has taken a number of steps
to stimulate agricultural production. The share of Government development
expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has increased from 16 percent
in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During late 1974 and 1975 the Government
urged farmers to grow more food under the campaign "farming as a matter of life
and death". The main features of this campaign were appeals to the population
to expand the area under cultivation and free distribution of seeds and
fertilizers under the national maize program. As a result of these factors,
and given improved weather conditions, the 1975 maize and rice crops were much
better than in the two previous years.
18.       Recognizing the importance of agricultural pricing policy, and the
fact that producer incentives had been dampened by low producer prices, the
Government announced substantial increases in agricultural producer prices in
May and November 1974. Also, in order to keep the issue of adequate producer
prices under continuing review, an agricultural price review unit was
established in the Marketing Development Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture
with the assistance of a team of FAO experts. Following extensive studies of
cost-price relationships and farmer incentives this unit has recommended, and
the Government has adopted, further producer price increases for all major
crops in 1975 and 1976. As a result of these improvements producer prices are
now close to export or import parity levels at the current exchange rate. The
Government intends to maintain agricultural prices at levels which will provide
adequate incentives to farmers and which will create a balance between export
crops and food crops for domestic consumption.
a0-       In the past agricultural production has also been handicapped by
inadequate project planning and implementation. Managerial staff has been
dispersed too widely and staff turnover has been extremely heavy as a result of
the Government decentralization and creation of new agencies. The Government rec-
ognizes the need to assign competent Tanzanian managerial staff to agricultural
projects and to ensure that they have sufficiently long tenure to enable them
to become effective on the job. In an effort to improve agricultural sector
planning and implementation a project coordination unit has been established
in the Ministry of Agriculture with responsibility for monitoring and expediting
implementation of projects under the Ministry. A Bank staff member and an
Agricultural Development Service (ADS) staff member have been assigned to the
unit. Currently about ten other ADS advisors are working in Tanzania. 1/ In
project preparation the Bank has assisted directly in the preparation of three
comprehensive regional development projects as well as the National Maize
Project (Credit 606-TA) which is the first phase of a comprehensive national
agricultural development program.
1/ This represents approximately 40 percent of the total number of ADS
advisors presently in the field in the Eastern Africa Region.



- 7 -
20.       Despite Government efforts to increase the availability of agricul-
tural inputs and credit, agricultural production has been adversely affected
by the inadequacy of the distribution system for production inputs, agricultural
output, and consumer goods, including inadequate storage and road transport.
In 1976 the Government introduced a number of changes in the distribution net-
work. The former system of cooperative societies and regional cooperative
unions is being replaced by newly-established village cooperatives which
will represent all village members. :hese village sccieties will
deal directly with the parastatal crop authorities, such as the tea, tobacco,
cotton, sisal, coffee and cashew authorities, which have been assigned the
responsibility, on a region-by-region basis, for all input distribution and
crop purchases. While these changes were intended to economize on marketing
and input supply costs by reducing the number of stages in the process, the
reforms were introduced precipitously and a period of trial and error in the
new supply and marketing structure can be anticipated. The Bank Group is
facilitating improvements to the agricultural distribution system by supplying
between 60,000 and 80,000 tons of storage capacity under the maize project
and by financing a consultant's study of the entire grain storage system. We
have also financed a consultant's study of the trucking industry under the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 507-TA). The consultant's report has been
completed and we are developing a project for assistance to the road transport
sector based on its recommendations.
21.       As a major component of its effort to expand material production, the
Government has made significant progress during the last three fiscal years in
reallocating public investment in favor of the directly productive sectors of
agriculture (cited above), industry and mining. 1/ As early as 1971, following a
mid-term review of the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74), the Government recognized
the need to reallocate development expenditures to more productive, quick-yielding
investments. While it has taken some time for this policy decision to be
reflected in the pattern of investment expenditures, because some major infrastruc-
ture projects such as the Tazara Railway and the Phase I Kidatu Hydroelectric
Project have only recently been completed, and because the identification and
preparation of directly productive investments is a lengthy process, the results
can clearly be seen in the 1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77 development budgets.
22.       This fundamental restructuring of public investment necessarily
means that relatively less investment resources are available for other
sectors, in particular for primary education and rural water supply. In
recognition of this fact, and also because the recurrent and capital cost
requirements of these targets would be entirely unmanageable even under normal
economic circumstances if they were to be implemented using past methods, the
Government is stressing the need for local self-help, particularly in village
school construction, lower cost delivery systems based on lower design standards,
and cost recovery. At the Government's invitation the Bank participated, in
March 1976, in a study which analyzed the fiscal implications of these social
sector targets and examined alternative, lower-cost solutions for delivery of
these vital services.
1/ The Bank Group has supported this effort by significantly increasing the
proportion of our own lending to these sectors over the past three fiscal
years. See Part II for details.



-8-
(iv) Major Issues for the Future
23.      In our view the general thrust of the Government's policy framework
is correct and those initiatives already undertaken represent a commendable
effort to confront the economic crisis. However, both the Bank and the
Government recognize that further adjustments are required to deal with the
severe constraints to growth which still remain. This need for further adjust-
ments is predicated on the assumption that present levels of real external
capital flows may be neither sustainable over the long-run nor consistent with
the Tanzanian objective of self-reliance. Even at the present level of external
aid the management of the balance of payments has required import restrictions
which have taken some toll of potential output.
Parastatal Efficiency and Capacity Utilization
24.      One important factor underlying the present economic difficulties
in Tanzania has been the poor performance of parastatal manufacturing and
marketing enterprises. With parastatals accounting for about half of value
added in manufacturing, declining labor productivity in these enterprises has
contributed significantly to the slow growth of material production. The
causes of inadequate performance are numerous and complex. These enterprises
have been largely insulated from the discipline of market forces by the pre-
vailing system of wage, price and import controls and by deliberate deemphasis
of the profit motive. They also suffer from a basic scarcity of trained
managerial personnel and skilled labor, weak incentives for management and
workers, starting-up problems in some recently initiated industrial activities,
and periodic shortages of key inputs. While numerous Government agencies are
intended to oversee and control the operations of parastatal enterprises, clear
guidelines for setting objectives and responsibilities and for evaluating
performance have been lacking.
25.       The low productivity of parastatal enterprises has been accentuated in
the past two years by a decrease in capacity utilization. This underutilized
capacity in the manufacturing sector has been largely due to periodic disruptions
in power and water supplies which have been or are being corrected and to the
shortages of foreign exchange for spare parts and materials which can only be
alleviated in the short-run by increased external aid in the form of quick-disbursing,
freely-usable foreign exchange. Solutions to the longer-term problems of low labor
productivity and parastatal inefficiency are more difficult. These issues were
addressed in the Bank's 1975 Industrial and Mining Sector Survey (647-TA) as well
as in the 1974 program loan discussions. They were also the focus of a 1975 ILO
report 1/ and of numerous Government internal policy papers. Many remedial
measures have been suggested, including (a) streamlining the structure of parastatal
organizations; (b) decentralizing greater decision-making authority to enterprise
managers; (c) revising the incentive framework for managers and workers with
stronger use of negative incentives, including reductions in work force when over-
manning becomes an obvious problem; (d) modifying the present system of cost-plus
price setting to induce greater cost-consciousness on the part of enterprises; and
1/ Report to the Government of Tanzania on the Past, Present and Future of
Income Policy in Tanzania, International Labour Organization, Geneva, 1975.



(e) elimination of Treasury subsidies to loss-making parastatals and/or
shutting down enterprises which make continuing losses.
26.       Despite awareness of and concern over parastatal inefficiency,
Government has not yet developed a comprehensive framework for dealing with
the problem. Some steps have been taken, including retrenchment of staff
in clearly overmanned parastatals such as the Tea Authority, Texco (the
textile holding company), the cement works and the meat packing plant; an 8
percent ceiling imposed on allowable cost increases for overheads in manufacturing
firms which apply to the National Price Commission for price increases; and the
hiring of a foreign consultant group to advise on operational and managerial
improvements for National Development Corporation (NDC) subsidiaries. However,
the Government is still reviewing the problems and possible solutions for this
sector before making far-reaching changes. The Bank has conducted a series
of reviews of many of the parastatals with which we have been associated in
our projects (tea, tobacco, cashews, sugar, livestock and meat) and we have been
assisting the Government in attempts to improve the operations of these enter-
prises. Over the next 18 months we are planning to carry out further studies
on exporting parastatals and on the parastatal sector as a whole.
The Need for an Export Policy
27.        Another problem area which has been highlighted by the economic crisis
is the poor performance of exports. The low growth in export volumes prior
to 1974 was primarily due to the slow growth in agricultural production, but
it may also be partly attributed to an ambivalence toward primary commodity
exports, which in some quarters were regarded as symptomatic of the colonial
pattern of trade. However, this ambivalence was not compensated by a sufficient
effort to encourage processing industries which would increase the domestic
value added component of agricultural exports. The cost of this lukewarm
attitude toward the export sector was borne home by the crisis.
28.       Since the economic crisis the Government's attitude has changed and
some measures to stimulate exports have been taken. Cash crop producer prices
have been increased and certain taxes on agricultural exports have been reduced.
In October 1975 Tanzania devalued the shilling by 14 percent, acting in
conjunction with Kenya and Uganda. The principal motivation for this action
was to afford greater incentive to export producers by permitting increases in
the shilling prices of their products. The Government has also proceeded with
the expansion of agricultural processing industries in sugar, tea, cashew,
tobacco and sisal and is seeking a stronger export orientation for existing
resource-based industries such as textiles, wood products, cement, leather and
leather products. Some investments in these subsectors have already occured
and others are planned. An export promotion bureau has been set up in the
Ministry of Trade and an export department has been established in the Bank
of Tanzania to facilitate export financing. The World Bank has been asked by
the Government to conduct a study of the prospects and problems of processed
and manufactured exports. This study will be carried out during 1977.



- 10 -
29.       While all of the above are steps in the right direction further
efforts will be required over the medium term. In the long run Tanzania may
have possibilities for mineral-based exports, but for at least the next
decade a successful export strategy must rest on boosting agricultural and
processed exports. The export effort remains subject to serious uncertainties,
in particular the problems of institutional change, marketing and transport in
agriculture and low factor productivity in manufacturing. These problems
pervade the entire economy and until they are ameliorated they will continue
to hamper export growth. To compensate for them exports will require special
inducements. Producer prices are likely to need continued, periodic upward
adjustments if the relative profitability of export crops is to be improved
and then maintained. For processed and manufactured exports the Government's
investments in new capacity should be accompanied by changes in the institutional
and price framework, including export subsidies where needed to make such
exports financially viable.
Budget Control
30.       Another major problem which has become apparent during the economic
crisis is the difficulty which the Treasury is having in keeping Governmental
expenditure within budgeted limits. From 1968/69 to 1972/73 current expenditures
grew at approximately 16 percent per annum, a high rate but one which is
consistent with the rapid expansion of the public sector under the Government's
program of socialist development, and furthermore this rate was matched by a
corresponding growth in current revenues. In 1973/74 and 1974/75, however, the
rate of growth of current expenditures rose to almost 40 percent per year, well
above the rate of growth of revenues. This acceleration of expenditure growth
contributed to a high rate of Government borrowing with serious inflationary
consequences. In response the Government introduced a budget for 1975/76 which
called for containing current expenditures at a level significantly below the
revised estimate for 1974/75. However, actual recurrent expenditures in 1975/76
exceeded budgeted amounts by a considerable margin, with the result that Govern-
ment borrowing from the banking system exceeded the already inflationary level
of 1974/75 and far exceeded the ceiling established in the annual Finance and
Credit Plan and agreed with the IMF as one of the conditions for a second credit
tranche drawing during 1975/76. 1/ Quite clearly, it was proving difficult to
reverse the pattern of rapid expenditure growth in an environment characterized
by continuing inflation and an underlying tendency to extend human and financial
resources in pursuit of ambitious social and economic goals.
31.       For a considerable time after the budget control problem first emerged
it was not fully perceived because of delays in expenditure reporting following
decentralization and because the Treasury had instituted a new system of budget
control which was proving difficult to implement. However, there is now full
recognition of the problem and a determination to correct it, and several
significant steps have already been taken. In March 1976 the Government
1/ Because Government borrowing exceeded the limits of the IMF Agreement, Tanzania
was unable to make any drawings under the standby during 1975/76.



- 11 -
reduced total civil service employment by almost 10,000 persons,or some 6
percent, through forced retirements and dismissals. In addition no general
wage and salary increases have been granted to Government employees since
May 1974, beyond the small adjustment in the minimum wage for the lowest
paid groups in May 1975. An "early warning" system has been set up to monitor
regional expenditures (about 20 percent of the total) on a monthly basis and
central ministry accounts on a quarterly basis.
32.       For 1976/77 the Government intends to limit the growth in total
public expenditures to 16 percent while revenues are expected to rise by 17
percent, due largely to new tax measures. After allowing for a reduced
level of carry-over expenditures from the previous year, an overall budgetary
deficit slightly lower than that for 1975/76 is forecast. Net Government
borrowing from the banking system is to be limited to T.Sh. 700 million, a
reduction of 40 percent from 1975/76. In January 1977 the Government entered
into an agreement with the IMF for further drawings on IMF facilities (balance
of first credit tranche plus trust fund) based on the above-mentioned ceilings
on public spending and credit expansion. The Government intends to adhere to
this agreement even if the credit ceiling necessitates a further reduction in
planned expenditures. However, the problems of over-commitment arnd over-
expenditure have grown to such magnitude over the past three fiscal years that
further corrective measures may be needed and full restoration of fiscal
control will be a matter of seme years rather than months.
(v) Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
33.       The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather and the effects of the policy measures
which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in 1974,
while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in 1974.
This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton and some other
cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagization. In 1976,
some of the problems of villagization were being rectified through "operation
correction" and since rains were once again favorable agricultural production
was generally good. Preliminary estimates are that both agricultural production
and total GDP increased by about 5 percent in 1976. However, output in the
modern sectors of industry and construction has remained at a depressed level,
in part due to shortages of building supplies, raw materials and spare parts
occasioned by the severe import restrictions which have been imposed to
conserve scarce foreign exchange. The high investment rate has been sustained
during this period, in large part through increases in the level of foreign
assistance, but there has also been a modest recovery in the domestic savings
rate. While inflation worsened in 1975, there was a significant reduction in
the inflation rate in 1976.



- 12 -
34.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties and declines
in scme agricultural export prices. Total export receipts declined by 10
percent from the level of 1974. Despite further reductions in the volume of
non-food imports, the total import bill rose by 6 percent over 1974 due to
continuing import price inflation and the necessity to continue food imports
during the first two-thirds of the year. As a result of these trends the trade
deficit increased from $340 million in 1974 to $400 million in 1975, and even
after allowing for a high level of project-related capital inflows and a huge
increase in grant assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual
deficit of almost $75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost
entirely through a combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975
deficit was met through foreign assistance from a wide variety of sources,
including a $30 million program loan from the World Bank, further IMF drawings
(1974 and 1975 oil facilities), bilateral program aid and other multilateral
assistance. The total foreign assistance inflow during 1975 exceeded p300 million,
or over $20 per capita. However, because of the very concessional terms on which
aid has been given to Tanzania, and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and suppliers credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained
low - including a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African
Community Corporations it was less than 8 percent in 1975. (Further details on
external debt are provided in Annex II.)
35.        In 1976 the balance of payments picture improved.   The trade deficit
declined due to strong export performance, especially for coffee and cotton,
and to a slight fall in the value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened
need for foodgrain imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other
categories of imports. Project related capital inflows remained at the high
level of prior years, although exceptional balance of payments assistance was
limited to $24 million (SDR 21 million) from the IMF's export compensatory
financing facility. (Tanzania was eligible for this drawing because of the slump
in exports in 1975.) The overall balance of payments is expected to show a
surplus of about $35 million for the year and net foreign exchange reserves
have increased to $115 million which is equivalent to two month's import require-
ments at the 1976 level, a modest improvement over end-1975 but still an inadequate
level.
(vi) Balance of Payments Forecast
36.        For 1977 the Government's objectives are to sustain the 5 percent rate
of growth of GDP attained in 1976 and to further reduce the rate of domestic
inflation. Based on this overall growth target, our projections indicate a
widening of the trade deficit by some $100 million, reflecting primarily a
selective liberalization of imports following several years of very tightly
constrained import levels. The value of exports is projected to increase only
moderately. Almost all of the improvement in exports in 1976 was due to higher
prices for coffee and cotton, along with a recovery in the volume of cotton
production, and further increases of this magnitude cannot be counted on in 1977.
Thus even with anticipated improvements in the volume of sisal, cashew, tea and
tobacco exports the total increase in export earnings is not expected to exceed
9-10 percent.



- 13 -
37.       On the import side an increase of some 20 percent in value terms
(13 percent in real terms) is projected. Consumer goods imports have been
maintained at austerity levels for the past three years, and this restraint
will continue during 1977. However, raw materials and spare parts imports
have been severely constrained with the result that essential industries have
been suffering from production bottlenecks. The Government intends to relax
the import control system sufficiently to allow for an increase in the volume
of industrial inputs and spare parts sufficient to raise the average utiliza-
tion rate of industrial capacity from 60 percent to 80 percent. The projected
rate of growth in industrial output is 7 percent, compared with an average
annual growth rate of only 2.5 percent over the period 1974-76. The program
of import liberalization is also designed to permit an increase in inventories
which are inadequate at the present time, and in spare parts for the transportation
sector. Finally, it is intended to increase foodgrain imports from $15 million
in 1976 to $20 million in 1977 in order to begin building a strategic grain reserve.
38.       Our balance of payments forecast assumes that grant assistance plus
project-related capital inflows will be maintained at roughly the same level
in real terms as in 1976. The same holds true for net service income. The
residual deficit in the balance of payments which results from the above set
cf assumptions is $50 million. Details of the balance of payments forecast,
and a comparison with earlier years, are shown in the table below:
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SUMMARY
TANZANIA MAINLAND
(Millions of Current US$)
1/        2/
1973      1974       1975      1976      1977
A.  Exports (f.o.b.)                 327.9      380.7     328.4     438.3      480.0
B.  Imports (c.i.f.)                -485.7     -719.1    -731.9    -692.1     -835.0
Trade Balance                 -157.8    -338.4     -403.5    -253.8    -355.0
C.  Services (net)                    18.6       21.2      60.9      60.1       65.0
D.  Transfers (net)                    5.0       45.3      93.0      83.3      100.0
Balance on Current Account    -134.2    -271.9     -249.6    -110.4    -190.0
E.  Public Capital (net)             136.0       97.7     108.7     110.2      115.0
F.  Other Capital (net)               -6.5       31.9      21.0      23.9       25.0
G.  Net Errors and Omissions          35.3        3.9      46.5      11.0        -
Overall Balance                 30.6    -138.4      -73.4      34.7      -50.0
H.  Exceptional Financing 3/           -         53.6      64.2       24.2
I. Net Change in Reserves
(+ = decrease)                 -30.6      84.8        9.2     -58.9
Total of H and I               -30.6     138.4       73.4     -34.7
1/ Estimated.
2/ IBRD staff projections.
l Includes IMF facilities, IBRD prograrn loan, and other bilateral
and multilateral balance of payments support.



- 14 -
39.       Tanzania is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) Per capita income
In 1975 - $170
(b) Performance
The Government's strong commitment to development is evident
from the high rates of domestic savings and gross investments
which averaged 17 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of
the GDP between 1967 and 1973 (paragraph 9 above). Its
program for economic restructuring (paragraphs 14 - 22) is basically
sound and, in order to achieve this restructuring, Tanzania
has shown itself willing to adopt necessary but un-
popular measures over a wide front.
(c) Ability to repay
In view of the Government's encouraging response to the
serious balance of payments crisis, its prudent management
of the foreign debt (paragraph 34 above) and good medium
term development prospects, Tanzania is creditworthy for
limited amounts of Bank lending but in order to safeguard
its creditworthiness, Tanzania needs to obtain as much
external finance as possible on concessional terms.
(d) Access to alternative sources of capital
Tanzania's ability to implement its development program
depends to a large extent on the continued availability
of external capital. While it has received additional
external assistance in recent years, this has not been
commensurate with its need and it cannot prudently borrow
substantial additional sums on commercial terms.
East African Community (EAC)
40.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years, the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been followed,
however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the distribution
of net benefits derived from the Community. The infrastructure services were
hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and Partner States
subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to keep the
services running. The poor performance of the common services in transport
and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods within



- 15 -
the countries, affecting the general economic development program. These
difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of payments
constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few years. As a
consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the authority of the
Community institutions and in the effectiveness of accountability procedures.
Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds between the Regional
Offices and the service Headquarters have often paralyzed the operation of
the Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of occasions led to
delays in meeting their external obligations.
41.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental political
and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community that a
review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed for this
purpose in November 1975 but adjourned since die in November 1976 without being
able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure of the EAC.
Meanwhile, although no dejure action has been taken, further deterioration in
Community relationships has led to a further dismantling of the Corporations.
The Railways Headquarters has in effect been disbanded and the nationals
working in the Headquarters have joined their respective Regional Offices.
Recently, the East African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to
the lack of effective mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The Head-
quarters of the East African Harbours Corporation has existed in name only for
at least a year with the ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam
functioning autonomously. The East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation has so far functioned with a semblance of Headquarters responsi-
bilities but is in fact delegating its headquarters functions to its
regional offices. The respective regional branches provide the service, and
domestic development programs in this sector are not likely to be impaired.
Despite these difficulties, the proceeds of the various current Bank loans are
being effectively used for approved and priority purposes.
42.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for about a month.
Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March 1976, the other
corporations have received no new loans from the Bank since 1973. The Bank
has continued to disburse on its 6 ongoing loans to the Corporations and as
of February 28, 1977, $40.8 million remain to be disbursed. In addition,
the Bank has provided assistance in the preparation of Railways, Harbours and
Telecommunications development projects. However, in the light of the
decentralization of the service corporations, the Bank is reviewing its
ability to assist with urgently needed future investments. Bank staff have
over the past year or so been providing whatever assistance has been
requested by the Partner States and by the Review Commission. The Bank has
also made it known to the Partner States that further assistance for moving in
an orderly manner to new institutional arrangements would be made available
should this be requested.



- 16 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
43.       Tanzania jointed the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 26 IDA credits and 11 Bank loans amounting
to $433.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In addition,
Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8 million which
have been extended for the development of common services and the East Africa
Development Bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through
their association in the East African Community. The only IFC investments in
Tanzania to date totalling $4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties and
in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to the
Government.  Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of January 31, 1977
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
44.        In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our lending
operations are increasingly focussing on the rural sector and on directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 15 loans and credits
made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of the 22 Tanzania
operations approved since then all but six have been for directly productive
projects. These directly productive projects are supporting both the agri-
cultural and industrial sectors, including maize, tea, tobacco, sugar, cotton
and cashew production, livestock and dairy development, fisheries and textiles.
The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector was recently
approved and will provide the raw material for Tanzania's first pulp and
paper plant, which is under preparation for consideration for Bank Group
financing. We plan to continue assistance for such directly productive
projects: a proposed second rural development project in Tabora Region
is expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors in the
near future, and a third rural development project is under preparation for
Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions. At the same time we are proceeding with the
National Agricultural Development Program (NADP) strategy which was recom-
mended in the agricultural sector report. The National Maize Program
(Credit No. 606-TA) was the first NADP style project approved and another
NADP project is currently under preparation.
45.       While it should be borne in mind that over sixty percent of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last three fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II have been
greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the scarcity
of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the understandable



-17 -
reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative traditional rural
sector to adopt new technologies, and others are a reflection of the strains
created in a society which is attempting a fundamental transformation from
one type of economic, institutional and political system to another. The
Government has become extremely conscious of these implementation issues
and is taking steps to resolve the underlying problems. An earlier reluc-
tance to recruit technical assistance for implementation has been replaced
by a willingness to utilize such assistance whenever it is demonstrably
necessary. The Bank's Resident Office in Dar es Salaam, which has been
expanded from one to two professional staff member, is giving special atten-
tion to implementation problems and the Bank has intensified the support which
we are proving to project implementation through supervision missions. The
close proximity of the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) has helped
considerably in this effort. Also, at the request of the Government, about
10 technical staff have been supplied by the Agricultural Development
Service (ADS) and a Bank staff member has been seconded to the Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In project preparation
as well we are attempting to alleviate critical bottlenecks. RMEA has
already been heavily involved in the preparation of projects in the agri-
cultural sector. Our ability to supply such assistance has proved to be
particularly valuable in a country such as Tanzania where project preparation
capacity is extremely limited and will continue to be so for some time. In
addition, we have provided a technical assistance project (Credit 601-TA)
designed to strengthen Tanzania's project preparation capabilities. In a
longer term attempt to alleviate the human resource constraints our lending
is increasingly emphasizing formal and non-formal training. Furthermore, a
conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General
47.       The manufacturing sector in Tanzania presently accounts for 10
percent of GNP and is increasing in importance. The average growth rate of
value added by the sector has been about 10 percent per year since indepen-
dence. The share of manufacturing employment in total non-agricultural wage
employment is currently in excess of 20 percent, having increased from 12.5
percent in 1964. The total number of jobs in registered manufacturing
enterprises employing 10 or more is currently about 60,000. The contribu-
tions of the mining sector to gross national product, exports and wage
employment are presently small, measuring approximately 2 percent, 8 percent
and 1 percent, respectively.



- 18
Industrial Development Strategy
4..       Since independence, Tanzania has followed a pattern of industrial
development concentrating on establishing or expanding industries for import-
substitution. Examples include textile, beer, cigarettes, radios, glass,
cement and metal products. As a consequence of this strategy, imports of
consumer goods have been reduced from 54 percent of total commodity imports
in 1961 to a current figure of less than 25 percent. However, recently in
the context of preparing its long-term development strategy, the Government
reviewed its industrial objectives and chose a "basic industrial strategy."
In essence, the basic industrial strategy aims at a gradual structural
transformation of the economy by giving priority to industries that process
domestic raw materials for consumption in the home market and by requiring
that traditional exports are processed locally as far as can be economically
justified. The "export promotion" aspect of the strategy has been given
added urgency by the need to close the current balance of payments gap (para-
graphs 27-29 above).   The strategy aims at promoting harmony between the
pattern of production and the pattern of domestic consumption, while the
promotion of manufactured exports is seen as a logical extension of production
for the home market. In the context of this strategy, the Government plans to
emphasize the development of domestic machine tool manufacturing and maintenance
capacity. Hence, the promotion of metal engineering industries and the training
of industrial engineers will receive special attention. It is also expected
that a key component of the strategy will be the establishment of an integ-
rated steel mill of as yet undetermined size based on domestic coal and
iron ore. Projects that do not fit the underlying strategy will be expected
to earn a higher rate of return than projects that fit the strategy to be
eligible for approval by the central planning authorities.
li8.      The Bank's Industry and Mining Sector mission report, which was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors in April 1975 (paragraph 2), raised issues
concerning the improvements required in the productivity of existing state
manufacturing enterprises and the need for increasing the efficiency of the
public sector. Rewards for efficiency and penalties for inefficiency within
the parastatal system are at present weak and this is probably one of the
main reasons for a relatively low level of productivity in many such enter-
prises. The absence of clear and unequivocal performance yardsticks, together
with the introduction of many direct economic controls on the activities of
public and private sector enterprises alike, appears to hiave had an adverse
effect on the motivation of firm level management in many industries. At
the same time, the Government's task of identifying inefficient operations has
become more complicated as poor economic performance is not necessarily
reflected in a company's profit and loss account or in any other obvious way.
The sector mission recommended that a move away from more comprehensive controls



- 19 -
towards a judicious and selective use of indirect controls, including
material incentives and decentralized decision making on the firm level,
might well be compatible with Tanzania's development objectives and at the
same time be conducive to greater efficiency and industrial development.
While numerous agencies are responsible for overseeing and controlling the
operations of parastatal enterprises,clear guidelines for setting goals
and evaluating performance are lacking. These problems, which were the
subject of an ILO report on wages, incomes and prices, have been a central
focus of recent negotiations for the Program Credit which was approved
by the Executive Directors on March 15, 1977.
49.       In resptnse to these problems the Government is now placing high
priority on increasing productivity in the industrial sector, improving
the organization and efficiency of parastatal enterprises, and adjusting
the price system to ensure that market prices better reflect the social
costs of producing industrial goods. In this connection, the Government
has prepared policy papers dealing with the incentive system for workers
and managers, parastatal organization, Government control of parastatals, and
the price and import control system, and it is expected that policy changes
dealing with these problems will be announced shortly. As part of this
effort the Government is currently drawing up plans to reduce parastatal
employment. This follows the reduction in Government employment of about
7 percent effected in early 1976 (paragraph 31).
50.       Since the Arusha Declaration (1967) and the acquisition by the
Government of majority interest in all important manufacturing enterprises,
mining and financial institutions, most industrial and mining activity is
now in the public sector. All major projects started after 1967 have been
in the public sector. Nevertheless the contribution of private firms is
appreciable and accounts for about 25 percent of the value added and 50
percent of the employment in the sector. At the April 1975 meeting of the
Consultative Group on Tanzania, the Government declared its willingness to
participate in joint ventures with foreign private parties particularly
when such cooperative endeavors could give Tanzania access to needed tech-
nical expertise. This could be particularly important in the mining sector
and in export-oriented manufacturing industries. While no major project has
yet attracted foreign private partners, there has been an increase in the
lending activity of private foreign banks in Tanzania.
Livestock and Leather
51.       Following Ethiopia and Nigeria, Tanzania ranks as the third most
important producer of hides and skins in Africa. In 1975 an estimated



- 20 -
one million hides and 1.5 million skins were available commercially. The
former figure represents the annual off-take of the national cattle herd
of about 10 million head which is managed almost entirely on traditional
lines. The sector has all the deficiencies usually associated with
traditional production: low productivity reflecting inadequate nutrition,
high disease incidence, poor herd management and poor quality of the native
cattle. IDA has supported the Government's program for the development of
both the commercial and traditional sector through two credits for livestock
(132-TA and 382-TA), the first of which is fully disbursed. IDA is also
supporting livestock development in the rural development project in Kigoma
(508-TA) and a dairy project (580-TA).
52.       In keeping with its strategy of increasing the local value added of
traditional exports (paragraph 47 above) programs for expansion of leather
processing industries have been encouraged by the Government. Currently three
commercial tanneries are operating in Tanzania capable of processing some
200,000 hides and 310,000 skins per year. When the tanneries presently under
implementation or planned for early implementation are complete, Tanzania will
have a national capacity to process 80 percent of the domestic hides and skins
expected to be commercially available in 1980.
53.       Tanzania successfully exports dried and wet-blue hides, crust
and finished leather from the Moshi tannery. Improved leather quality
is expected from the existing or planned modern tanneries at Moshi,
Mwanza and Morogoro, and there should be no difficulty in exporting
tanned leather at acceptable margins of profit to a growing world market.
Tanzania has not exported finished leather goods in any significant
quantity. The present Tanzanian output of leather and canvas shoes, while
of acceptable quality in the domestic market, cannot compete internationally.
Recently leather work gloves have been exported and small quantities of
leather jackets and handbags have achieved limited acceptance among
tourists. Internationally there is a large and growing demand for quality
leather goods provided they are competitive in price and style and suitable
marketing channels are established. It is anticipated that the products of
the shoe and leather goods factories to be located in Morogoro industrial
complex will be able to meet these requirements.
Cotton and Textiles
54.       Tanzania is the fourth largest cotton producer in Africa with an
output of 430,000 bales in 1973, up from 160,000 balleF in 1958.   Only about
15 percent of the cotton crop is presently processed domestically into yarn
and woven cloth, the balance being exported as baled cotton. The textile
industry, virtually non-existent 10 years ago, is now the largest industry in
the manufacturing sector, accounting for about 25 percent of sectoral employ-
ment, 13 percent of value added and 11 percent gross industrial output. The
National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), a government parastatal, holds shares
in and oversees the operations of the seven existing textile mills in Tanzania.
The Bank, in cooperation with the Kuwait Fund, is supporting a major expansion



- 21 -
of the integrated textile mill at Mwanza (Loan No. 1128-TA). Currently,
of 63,000 bales of cotton processed in Tanzania annually, 60,000 bales
are AR and 3,000 bales BR grade. Another 40,000 bales of BR cotton are
exported. Canvas is made from BR cotton and there is a promising inter-
national market in this commodity. Tanzania's first indigenous production
of canvas and canvas goods will take place in the Morogoro Industrial Com-
plex and will consume 57 percent of current exportable surplus of BR grade
cotton.
The National Development Corporation
55.       The National Development Corporation (NDC), headquartered in
Dar es Salaam, is the largest parastatal holding company and Tanzania's
principal instrument for industrial investment. NDC holds shares in 22
companies, of which 17 are classified as subsidiaries (over 50% NDC share-
holding) and 5 are associate companies (50% or less NDC shareholding). The
22 companies which are operating in metal working, tobacco and beverages,
printing and publishing, chemicals and allied products, and leather tanning
and processing, presently employ about 9,000 people. Operations of the
NDC companies have been profitable every year since 1968 on a consolidated
basis although individual companies have experienced losses. In 1974, for
the first time, each of the companies made after-tax profits. Similar results
were achieved in 1975. The overall capitalization of the NDC is sound with
a debt/equity ratio of 35/65 though a somewhat tight liquidity. Conso-
lidated profits as a percentage of sales of NDC's Group Companies have
fluctuated between about 6 and 8 percent per annum since 1972. These
operational results of the Group Companies are considered only modestly
satisfactory. In 1974/75, therefore, NDC instituted a comprehensive program
of in-plant reorganization and efficiency studies to correct known problems
in management, maintenance, inventory control, excess receivables, unbalanced
process lines, worker skills and incentives. Initial results are promising;
for example, in 1975, receivables were reduced in aggregate by TSh 25 million.
In 1976 NDC followed up this initial effort by bringing in industrial
consultants to review capacity utilization in each of its operating com-
panies. The recommendations of these consultants are being reviewed and
it is expected that NDC's efforts in these areas will lead to continued
improvements in performance.
56.       The staff of NDC have developed substantial capabilities in the
textile and leather sectors. Three of the Group Companies -- Tanzania
Hides and Skins, Tanzania Tanneries and Tanzania Shoe Company -- are the
country's major processors of hides and skins from raw materials to finished
products. Until 1973/74, NDC also managed the country's textile firms.
These have since been transferred to another specialized parastatal (TEXCO)
(paragraph 54), but NDC's experience in the textile sector provides a solid
foundation for planning and implementing the canvas mill component of the
Morogoro Complex.



- 22 -
57.       When completed, the proposed Morogoro Project will add three
operating companies to NDC's existing portfolio of 22. Projected aggregate
revenue in current terms of this Project in 1982, when full operating capa-
city is scheduled, will be about US$33 million representing about 7 percent
of NDC's total 1982 estimated revenue of US$450 million to US$500 million
(including the operations at Morogoro). These figures indicate that the
Morogoro Project, while large, should not per se place an extraordinary
burden on NDC's financial and management capabilities.
Bank Experience in the Industrial Sector
58.       Bank experience in industry has followed two separate lines --
lending to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) as a financial intermediary
and participation in the preparation and/or financing of large industrial
projects. In both cases, the implementation records have been good. The
beneficiary of one credit (460-TA) and one loan (1172-TA), TIB has built up
a sound organizational structure with all Departments headed by qualified
Tanzanians. Since TIB's founding, the Bank Group has had continuous involve-
ment with the numerous interrelated aspects of organizational development
(technical capacity, training, internal operating procedures, etc.) and has
been impressed with TIB's rapid development. In the first large industrial
project approved for direct Bank-finance Mwanza Textile (Loan 1128-TA)
project implementation is ahead of schedule and costs are presently within
appraisal estimates. In addition, in the preparation of a number of large
industrial projects (particularly phosphates), the Bank has been asked by
the Government to review projectconcepts and design at the very early stages
of identification and preparation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       An Appraisal Report No. 1213-TA, dated March 3, 1977 entitled
"Morogoro Industrial Complex" is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. A Loan and Project Summary is provided as Annex III
to this report.
60.       The Project was prepared by consultants and NDC, assisted by
several Bank project preparation missions which visited Tanzania in 1974
and 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington from August 7 to August 12,
1976. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. E. Mulokozi (the then Chair-
man, NDC). The Project, fully consistent with the Government's policy of
increasing the local processing of domestic raw materials (paragraph 47
above) finances part of the establishment of an industrial Complex at
Morogoro, specifically the industrial estate and the construction of a shoe
factory and a leather goods factory primarily aimed at the export market.



- 23 -
Together with a tannery already under construction with Bulgarian assistance
and a canvas mill supported by the EEC (which are described in paragraph 66),
these projects constitute a vertically integrated industrial complex to
process raw hides, skins and cotton into intermediate and finished products.
Following negotiations, lengthy discussions with EEC became necessary in
order to define responsibilities and delay was also necessary to enable
the selected shoe factory technical assistance contractor to review the
design and cost estimates before finalizing the loans.
61.       The Project would be located at Morogoro, a regional capital with
a population of about 40,000, situated some 180 kilometers west of Dar es
Salaam. The site is close to the Tan-Zam highway as well as the newly
completed Tan-Zam railway and the central railway line connecting the Port
of Dar es Salaam with Dodoma, Mwanza and Kigoma. Because of these excellent
transport linkages, its central location both in terms of access to raw
materials and marketing of finished products, the compatibility of its
terrain and climate for the factories involved, and the ready access to
labor, Morogoro is a suitable location for the proposed project.
Industrial Estate
62.       The Project would include the establishment of a 65 ha industrial
estate constituting the first phase of a development ultimately expected to
cover about 200 ha. It would comprise necessary infrastructure including
land development, a basic road network, provision of utilities (including
power, water, telephones, sewage disposal), four standard factory buildings
and housing for senior personnel. The standard factory buildings would
house the estate's administrative offices and the leather goods factory
(paragraph 65) and would be available for subdivision and rental to small
and medium-scale industrial enterprises. Initially only two of the standard
factory buildings would be constructed. The remaining two would be built
when the demand for additional factory space justifies the investment. The
decision to proceed with them would be taken in consultation with the Bank
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). A major part of this additional
space is expected to be occupied by various ancillary industries producing
products substituting for imported items needed by Project factories. Rental
charges for both estate factories and housing would be established at levels
which yield appropriate financial returns on the investments involved.
63.       The Morogoro Industrial Complex, including the tannery and canvas
mill, will have an average daily water demand of 2,800 m3 and a peak load
of 4,000 m3. Initially water will be drawn from the nearby Ngerengere River
but this source has limited capacity and during the dry season operations
would have to be curtailed or shut down. A prolonged period of drought, as
has occurred twice in recent years, would be a major disaster for the Complex.



- 24 -
To avoid this, the Bank-financed Mindu dam and pipeline project (Loan 1354-TA)
would provide a reliable water supply to both Morogoro town and the Industrial
Complex. When implemented, the 29 million m3 of water impounded at Mindu Dam,
five kilometers from Morogoro, will assure uninterrupted service to the Morogoro
area. The Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals has already engaged consultants
to prepare detailed designs for the Mindu Dam and it is expected that con-
struction will start in mid-1977 and be completed by about mid-1979, i.e.
about the time the factories in the Complex will be starting production.
Shoe Factory
64.       The shoe factory would be designed for an annual production of
two million pairs of leather and two million pairs of canvas shoes. The
feasibility study for this project recommended that about 10 varieties of
leather and canvas shoes be produced. However, it could be more economical
to concentrate, at least for the initial product mix, on one or two basic
types of leather and canvas shoes. It is also likely that equipment more
suitable for hand-made rather than machine-made canvas shoes would be procured
since international demand is strongly biased towards the former. This would
be appropriate to Tanzania's comparative advantage in labor as well as
hav!ng positive income distribution effects.
Leather Goods Factory
65.       The leather goods factory, which would consist of a number of
working areas in which skilled craftsmen using small powered and hand
tools produce various types of leather goods, would be housed in one of
the standard factory buildings (paragraph 62). Annual production at full
capacity would be about 18,000 handbags, 10,000 suitcases, 32,000 wallets,
14,000 leather belts and 40,000 leather jackets. In addition to leather,
the basic raw material, lining material, thread, glue, locks and other hard-
ware constituting about 15 percent of the total raw material cost would be
needed. These items would initially be imported but in time could be
replaced by domestic production in small-scale ancillary workshops.
Canvas Mill and Tannery
66.       There are two additional investments in the Morogoro Complex
which are not being financed under the Bank project. One, the first canvas
mill in Tanzania (paragraph 54) was appraised by the Bank's field mission
in 1975 along with the three Project components. Subsequently, it was
agreed that EIB/EDF would undertake the financing of the canvas mill.
These institutions conducted an independent appraisal in October 1976 and
have scheduled final approval of a combined financing package for mid-1977.
The mill will produce 7,662,000 m2 of canvas cloth to various specifications,
of which about 7 percent or 558,000 m2 will be delivered to the shoe factory
and the balance sold for other domestic uses or exported. A leading Nether-



- 25 -
lands manufacturer of canvas has reassessed the original feasibility study
and will be contracted to provide engineering design, construction super-
vision, mill management and marketing services. While the canvas to be
produced at Morogoro is not essential to the success of the shoe factory
(canvas can be imported), the development of the canvas mill in parallel
with the Bank project would generate numerous benefits enhancing the over-
all performance of the Industrial Complex. For that reason, the Bank and
EIB/EDF project will continue to be closely coordinated through: (i) direct
communication between Bank, EIB and EDF project staffs and (ii) central
supervision by NDC's project management organization. The second investment
is in a tannery at Morogoro (paragraph53 ). Financed under the Bulgarian
aid program, this tannery was included in the original feasibility report
and is designed to process 280,000 hides and 900,000 skins per year. This
investment is already under implementation and is expected to commence
production in about mid-1977.
Implementation and Training
67.       NDC would assume overall responsibility for the Project.   For
the Project construction period of three years, this responsibility would
fall on NDC's Research and Development Department. A qualified Project
Manager has been appointed by NDC. He will be provided with appropriate
facilities and staff to implement the Project (Section 3.02(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement) and would be assisted by a Supervising Engineer and a Works
Accountant based at Morogoro. On completion of the construction period,
NDC's Operations Department would assume responsibility. The three Project
components (the industrial estate, the shoe factory and the leather goods
factory) as well as the tannery and canvas mill would all be established
as subsidiary corporations of NDC. Project companies in charge of the Bank-
financed components would be established by December 1, 1978 (Section 3.02 a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Operations of the estate will be the responsibility of an inter-
nationally recruited resident estate manager who would be appointed after
consultation with the Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
He would be employed by December 1, 1978 and would be responsible for training
a suitable counterpart to take over his responsibilities. Any extension
or termination of his contract would be initiated in consultation with
the Bank (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       The ensurance of efficient management and quality control for
the shoe factory is particularly important since its product will be entering
highly competitive international markets. A technical assistance contract
for the shoe factory with a qualified firm acceptable to the Bank, for
factory design, procurement, construction and equipment installation,
training of Tanzanian personnel, and factory start-up has been signed
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  To assist in uatiaging



- 26 -
operations and marketing the output of the shoe factory, it was agreed that
a qualified firm would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.04(b) ot the dratt Loan Agreement). it is expected tnat
the management/marketing contract will be with the same firm as the technical
assistance contract. The Borrower, the Bank, NDC and the shoe company would
exchange views, before contract termination, on the desirability of its ex-
tension (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In reviewing draft
technical assistance proposals for the shoe factory, special emphasis was
placed on training and measures designed to ensure that expatriate staff can
be phased out as soon as possible. In addition to in-plant programs, pro-
vision has been made for training key Tanzanian .ersonnel in similar plants
already operating in other countries during the construction period. This
would ensure that a cadre of trained core personnel will be available in time
for factory "start-up." Supervision missions would pay special attention to
the training aspects of the Project.
70.       It is expected that management and production personnel of the
leather goods factory will, at full development, include three internationally
recruited suitably qualified experts: a leather technologist, a modeler to
prepare samples and patterns and a quality inspector. Growth of the leather
factory will be carefully phased. This will allow the benefits of "learning
by doing" to be maximized and enable the internationally recruited specialists
to concentrate on training a corps of skilled Tanzanian craftsmen who will
be able to continue their training functions once the specialists leave.
Commercial linkages to be established with foreign marketing agencies would
ensure that up-to-date designs will be continually available to keep the
industry "fashion-competitive."
Project Costs and Financing
71.       The total Project cost, including interest during construction
estimated at $4.1 million, price and physical contingencies and permanent
working capital is estimated at $36.2 million net of taxes and duties, of
which $23.6 million or 65 percent would be foreign exchange. Details of
Project costs are included in Annex III. The industrial estate totals $9.5
million or 26 percent of Project costs; the shoe factory $25.7 million or
71 percent of Project costs and the leather goods factory $1 million or
about 3 percent of Project costs. The proposed Bank loans totalling $23
million would finance nearly all of the foreign exchange requirements of
the Project, including interest and other charges on the proposed loans.
Financing of interest during construction is justified in view of the
heavy cash outlays required for the complex until the facilities are
completed.
72.       The proposed Third Window loan of $11.5 million would be made to
the Government on standard TW terms, i.e. 4.5 percent per annum with repayment
of principal to start on January 15, 1983 and final maturity on January 15, 2001.
The proposed Bank loan of $11.5 million would be made to the Government
for 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace at 8.5 percent per annum. The



-27-
Government would onlend the proceeds of the loans to NDC at 10 percent per
annum for 15 years including 4-1/2 years of grace. Interest would be
capitalized during the three-year construction period. The execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loans (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
NDC would pass on the loan proceeds to the industrial estate partly as debt
($5.5 million) and partly as equity ($1.0 million), the former on the same
terms as NDC's obligaticn to the Government. It would also pass on $15.4
million of the loan proceeds to the shoe factory as debt and $0.5 million
as equity, the debt again at the same terms as the Government's onlending
to NDC. Finally, NDC would onlend $0.6 million to the leather goods factory
on terms identical to the Government's. (Section 3.03(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
73.       NDC would contribute $13.2 million towards the costs of the
Project in the form of equity. These funds would be derived from NDC's
projected earned surplus over the Project execution period or from the
national development budget. Assurances have been obtained from the Gevern-
m.ent that any shortfall in NDC's equity funding capacity and such additional
funds which may be needed to complete the Project will be provided on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to ensure the financial soundness of the industrial
estate, shoe and leather goods companies and timely debt service, NDC would
limit the debt: equity ratio of these project companies to a maximum of
60:40; limit dividends and other forms of cash distribution by project
companies to amounts which will not reduce the current ratio to less than
1.5:1; and maintain special reserve accounts in NDC's books equivalent to
two years of the combined debt service of the project companies (Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). NDC and the project companies will main-
tain records to adequatelyreflect the operations and financial conditions of
the project companies and annual audits, acceptable to the Bank, of these
companies will be conducted by the Tanzania Audit Corporation (Section 4.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
74.       Equipment and material orders larger than $100,000 financed out
of the proceeds of the loans would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In procuring
manufactured goods, local manufacturers will be granted a preference of
either 15 percent or the actual tariff on equipment imported, whichever is
lower (paragraph C, Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). Contracts for
equipment and materials smaller than $100,000 would be let following    receipt
of a reasonable number of quotations from qualified and experienced suppliers.
Civil works contracts in excess of $100,000 would be let following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local
contractors would be granted a preference of 7-1/2 percent (paragraph D,
Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). Civil works contracts of less
than $100,000 would be let following competitive bidding in accordance with
the Borrower's ordinary procedures which are satisfactory to the BanX.



- 28 -
7:;L      A schedule of estimated disbursements is included in Annex III.
The Bank would disburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures and
85 percent of local expenditures on equipment and materials, 50 percent of
total expenditures on civil works, 100 percent of foreign exchange expend-
itures on consultant services and training and the amount due for interest
and other charges on the loans accrued on or before December 31, 1980.   In
order to avoid serious slippage in the planned three-year construction
schedule provision for retroactive financing of up to $150,000 for expend-
itures incurred on early design and engineering services since January 1, 1977
is proposed (paragraph 4, Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
'farkets and Marketing
76.       In an effort to help reduce Tanzania's critical balance of payments
gap, the Morogoro Industrial Complex has been deliberately designed to be
strongly export-oriented. Eighty percent of the outputs of the shoe factory,
the canvas mill and the leather goods factory and 35 percent of the output
of the tannery are expected to constitute direct export sales. It is apparent
that the success of the project as a generator of foreign exchange depends,
primarily, on the success of the international marketing strategy. The
international demand for finished leather and bulk canvas or made-up canvas
goods is so large that the modest increments to be offered at Morogoro should
be easily marketable given competitive quality and prices. No major problems
are foreseen in establishing external commercial relationships for these
products. Outlets for canvas goods will be secured with the assistance of
the canvas mill contractor, who has commercial capabilities in this respect.
Tanzania already has established channels for exporting leather from the
Moshi tannery to Europe, the Far East and the USA and every indication is
that the exportable surplus of leather from Morogoro can be absorbed easily
even by the same customers. The maximum planned production of 2 million
pairs each of leather and canvas shoes would represent only 0.4 percent of
the forecast imports of OECD countries in 1982 or about 14 percent of the
annual incremental demand for imported shoes in those countries. Significant
sales are also expected in other African countries and the near East. In
view of the crucial importance of ensuring proper marketing of the shoes
produced under the Project and in order to secure entry and efficient sales
management in the international market, great emphasis has been placed on
the marketing contract (paragraph 69'). After evaluation of the two proposals
received for the marketing contract, an Italian Group with proven marketing
capabilities, has been selected by NDC.



- 29 -
Benefits and Risks
77.       The overall financial return of the Morogoro Complex's Project
is forecast at 15.2 percent after taxes in constant 1975 terms, with the
industrial estate, shoe factory and leather goods factory having estimated
returns of 9.2 percent, 17.2 percent and 23.2 percent, respectively. The
aggregate economic return for these components is estimated at 26.4 percent.
Economic rates of return for the individual components are estimated at 15.9
percent for the industrial estate (26.0 percent of project costs), 29.8
percent for the shoe factory (71.0 percent of project costs), and 46.5
percent of the leather goods factory (3.0 percent of project costs).
78.       While having substantial potential benefits, particularly for
Tanzania's critical foreign exchange gap, the Project is not without risks.
The most important of these include potential difficulties associated with
the efficient operation of the Project factories, over manning, the need
to ensure adequate and timely water supply for the complex and problems of
marketing Project output in the highly competitive world market. The Pro-
ject has, however, been designed in the full knowledge of these potential
risks and as discussed in this report specific steps including provision
for adequate management, technical advice and training and marketing have
already been taken or are recommended. Furthermore, NDC is an established
organization whose staff has gained considerable experience since the mid-
1960's in planning, construction, and managing diverse industrial plants.
The proposed Project is consistent with the country's industrial develop-
ment strategy and appropriate to Tanzania's resource base and as such can
be expected to succeed. No adverse environmental effects are expected from
the Project. Because the feasibility study for the entire Morogoro Complex
did not fully address the question of liquid waste disposal, agreement was
reached that this question will be further examined by specialists in this
field, acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
This study, to be carried out by December 1, 1977, will be financed by the
Bank, as part of the technical assistance component of the industrial estate
subproject. Appropriate measures will be taken and special equipment
selected for the installations to be constructed to avoid adverse effects
on ecology and occupational health.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Third Window Loan    Agree-
ment between the United Republic of Tanzania and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the texts of the resolutions approving the proposed loans
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 30 -
80.       Special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in
Section III of Annex IV. A special condition of effectiveness is the
approval of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement specifying the terms on which
the Government will onlend the proceeds of the loans to NDC.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with established criteria for
Third Window Loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 15, 1977



page 1 of Li pages
TABLE IA
TANZANIA- SOCIAL INIDICATOR% DATA SHEET
LATED AREA (THOU AN?)-------------------------
---------------                        ~~~~~~TANZANIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TZITAL       945.1                                          mOST RECENT
4VIrI.    .                               I 9949      1 9170  ESTIMATE            KENYA           NORCA , REP. U) MiALAYSIA-'
IjR P3   CAPITA CUSS)                         70.0        120.0        173.0               140 .0       27.          430
POPULALTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUILATION (MID-YR. MILLION)                9.4La       1 2.9 La     1 4.7 /aII . 2                    11. 4        1 0.'.~
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUAtRE on.                           I o.o        i.o          1 0 i                1 9 .0      119 -0        32. 0
PRV SQUIRE (A.     AGRIC. LAND             23.0 /a     23,0            .                    .       1 320.0       291 .0
VITAL STATI[STIES
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND             51 .5        53.;        50.2                  69.0         35 .0       42. 2
CR?UDE DE14Tn RATE PER THOUSAND           27.1         23.0        2o,1                  127.0        1 .6        12. 9
IAFVANT RORTALITY RATE C/THOU)          19 0 .0      160. 0 Lb       ..                 s.o/a                     60.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH     YOTS)        36. 7        41 .3       l44.5                 1.7.5        5 7.?1      56.7
GROSS PEPROOUCTIONE RAtTE                   .            . 2         1. 2                 1.4    24                2.6 /
POPULATION GROWTHK RATE IX)
TITAL                                      2.1 I/a      1 . 0/a     2.? /a                3. 1        2. 3          .
JRHAN                5.0         5            5.2                  ~~~~         ~~~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.5  6.i.  3.6
URBAN POPULATION AS Or TOTAL)                 6.6         4. 0         6.8                  9.9         410          2 7.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
)TO 14 YEARS                            42 - 5  !   6 4. 4/b       A.4.6                           42.1         .b7/a
13 TO p4 YEARS                            Sa.5 /a     51. 0            *45.0                         5            52.1 7;
45, YEARS AND OVER                         2.-0  oab    2. :                              3 .46        0.1          3. 2 7
ACE )EPE4DENCT RATIO                         0.5 8~,      0 . I/        I. 1I                            0 .9         0. 9 /a
ECONiRIiC DEPENDENCY RALTIO                   1.0 1,j     t. 2 /La      .:                  1.1          l.b A        1.4F La
rARILY PLANNINGD
ACCEPTORS (EUMJLMr IVE. THOL')               ..,.                                        66.?           .         222. 2 
USERS It OF MARRIED WOMENT                                                                            4.2.0        B.0o 77
3 M4PLO I nENT
TOTL [RIAFRE(HUAO                      .900/        54 00 i /a b1 6300.0 /b            100.Dtc .  [0 0 0. 0    29 00 . 0/a
LA83R FOACE IN AGRICULTURE (0)              96.0         91: a.                            90.0/c       50.5 0%6.0 7
UNEMPL)YED (I Or LAROR FORCE)                  .....                                          .5 .           7TO      4.-0 /a.b
14 (DM3 0DISTRI BUT ION
I 01 PARIRATE INCOME REC'0 BY-
HIGHEST   51 OF   Ii3JOEH)DLO               .          1. 5           ..20.2/d                        17.1        2 5.03
HIGHEST 2oo Or     HOUSEHOLDS               .          61.            ..5. 3                                      540
L3ET 201 0F   HSOJSFHCLDS               .           .1.                              3 -R/d       7             .
L )wE ST  4o orO   HOUJSEHOLDS              ..          1. .A                            1I3.7dW      17.7        1.
DTSTRI3UTION4 OF LAND OWRERS'AIO
C ) rsEO9 RT TOP LOF or     NERS               ....                                           .        2.
1~349E0 AT SRALLEST lot OWNERS               ......2. 0
-EALTI AND RUTRITIJN
P'OPJL ATION PER PHYSICIAN               ?0080.DLoa421570.ClLa    2 14 50.0             783PAR.0/E   221 0.-0c
'POPJLATION PER NURSING RERSI4            890D. ,4,dA9DOa           10.                1470.0/ej     [7460 .0/c  1 0901.0 /a.c
POPULATION PER "OSPITAL dCD               5910/.0       700.0           ..                01.0       1900.0        210.0 '
PER -APITA SuPPLA OF-
CALOR4IES Co Or REQ) IREMENTS)            6 9 .0       71.0        98.0 /c             101I. 0       01.3         9 04 .0  .
PRO)TE IN (GR AMS4  P EA DATY)            42.0         413. 0      41.0. TW             71.0         45 .0        4,9.0 5~
-0F WHI1CH ANIMAL AND PULSE            22.O/e       215. 0                           2 9 .0       1 9.0        20.0 /,
DEATH RATE (,/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ...                        ..                               .5.5
[DUE AT ION
ADJUS TED ENROLLMENT RMTIO
PRIMART S.CHOOL                           24:0o        36.0 /f      43.0         ~       6L.O/If    I004.        5 9.0 /a
Scc2sD~'~ aEHOOL                zG"2         ,.7          3.0/I                A.0LT      41.            .o,
TEARS L)F SCHOOLING PROVIDED3
CE 1550  AND SECOND LEVEL)                113.0       10.0a        10.-0                113.0   I.0  12.00
VOCAT IONAL ENRO-LMENT
(% OF SECONODART)                         2 3 .0      10.~            ..d                   oI       1 6.0         3. 0La
ADULT LITERACY PATE (l)                     1 7.0                     4 19.O /b           00. a.0 F1                17.0 /f
AOUS PAD
P_E_RSONS PER ROWlf (AVERAGE)                .I                          .. If                           2.           2.1S
OCCJP IED DWELL INGS WI THOUT
PIPED MATER (2)                             ..         0.     __     ....                             0.0 /1     45.23 /K
ACEZSS TO ELLCTRLCIYY
C5Z OF ALL OaWF... INGS)                    ...                       ..                              0.0        65. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELEcTRICITY CII                          ..           .                      .                       a..   1.  10-0
EON GO AR ION
RAOT   R ECEIVERS (PER THOU PoeA)            2.           10.0           0                 A.O        1 246.0J      41. 0
PASSENGER CARS CRER THOU POP)                3.0 /a       1.0           . 0                9.0     20         2      1.0 
ELECTRICITY CtK6H/Y5 PER CAP)               13.07        31.0/        31.0 /a            64A. 0          2'.07
NEWSPAINT (KG/YR PER CAR)                    a0.1         0.1I        0.1I                 0.9          19           '.0 Tra
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIGRS ON RERERSE



590611 1
Page 2 of i4 yaR-
e.. .t..as ntd    dat foe 1962 refon t.oay year betwee  1959 and 1961 for 1970 betwee  1968 and 1970, and foe- Mos  intent roelnotbewn
1960  ti   velan-d T.-.an,,   1  91   lrtopooatn         /I Ratio of -popolaionsro     o  5adovni      on   lt,b-n
force  /!d 1962   _e 1961-i3,  If 1953. inoban,    f  1963,     h ib inoldieedauI ad ore    ih iwlr
q-half-cio ft, -egtu-rnd not o1I pran..e too to th tncnc     6-IS and 13-li year of aersc   tnJ
1970   Jo Mailand Tonea-a    _6 1967,  Jo ft-ehnehut ,,'d  1965,  in UnIon o-l,  If 7-1l and 14-19 year ofag
'lyiT 08.C00T ESTThATF.  orjie Tan-aia.     lb 197~.  Jo 1969-7la1nae      id 7.13 and 14-19 ona- of age  opntvl
'lxiv        ~~~~~1570 -Ra Onpitend unIv.  Lb Ras-oof population under I and 65 and ove t hlbo forc age 11-59 -c-,  'c Tib-t fIrc
age 15-59 years, 'tI Urban 1iossholds . ,I Rngisco-d no,t allI prrtes-,  is the cootc 5-li c.a..  age.
Jj Tur    - nod-ny  incliad-s macion.. trining at she chad InoelI
ORE;at    iiEP   1910   '  45 percetage of np.ynn.     /b Regesn-nd    /L Rugist-ned. -ot al cncto   r.r rho cua.vpirt-1
197  a  estMaaysa.  b  eginerd apltans ta onk  tof.oerciut oly  Id 1964-66,  to 12-18 cone of age.
It' 1961,  ijPp-.C       
DEFlNITlOlit OF 7SLAL INDgICATORS
ac  oa1ruI iePrpi losoni citg r,sntg_Ksn                                                 Poolaso .codsd by comber ot n--ttte
lotal -  ial soroic tm-pr-s 'c  ad - aodild  -oto.nbad fe-le -d-ilvsoire                       "-at-d, no'etlirod'irs       a-d
moo. - ucsa concaasovoase  f1 .g..l.eaae  toad toprnsyu           sctio pesue cith trainig or a-pore
Ienns .,Ic coops po-sre- nakat, & siteh-n garde-  rt  o       oea cf   c   np a    e   tepsl.ta-o divided by n-mbe of bospi Sa1 beds
all oi.                                         ocoilablo in~~~1 yablac as] pr-,ate genra  ne-pci d hospitl and
-nshsh,littotas oeso, occludes ni.... irs nioroLsnnt       o
cacolarod ir sano 0 uctrsr on retcdosWordln grIn  197 3- 75  ercpa ss,ptco    actcf7.      earoea      C-nPired f    -i-engy
-osaiead canal itIt,aead ohaso- intok one soppli-s onejdo ae-na1 fn-d. seds 0ct-
Ocenlacion toad-rn osilsoel~M  -l 00f July istl- ntasLabe         mien oned is food pno--issg ael Ioas. in rrtatn,rq.,en
sosrapo ol ti.c en~d-year ussenato.ts, 1960, 1970 and 197da,    were entineted by fAi basd onPhysiologica needs foreunletjy
and ho,I,lr                 -tdcigensnn.neL tnp-ra-r  tudy -eighl. .sgoand
indnsay-conao           b    M-Sd-y-a pusaePer Sq--n kcie-         Sndirtarmmn      fPopotn     , ado attd 10    0 at-   inl 
Ire  10n fee toc  of tona amaI                                   hnid t_naL.
acemilol tn less; t-cer slysoe 155 51 gnte. bed - Trpored IsSon  ur Pa _naasot2-zoee(lis  e  a)                  I iti  eto  f lT-
lg-ttaaibd asc                                                 capita net s-pply of find pen day, nor aepply If feud ds Jfls-Ja
abveroi neossfur oil tortar-noblinhed by I 01 tM   es
toil, barthrote per thusand - Osoa I live brths poe rhneand of rid-  prosean  ar day. an 70g1-rn- ohuntual endpil-d  proten  of o_tcl
eupuloaen.  uu-yer asrnur zcaveraot neiog o 1960 od 192,  10goonsshut d ire stea peerso , ses'e taa,.redo ee70,r trI
irs Ito-cede asurago codingas173 foIetmnt saaef 75 gear of .da1 Pt ol                    aed'23 dear- of -ntol yPt, la
C -sd, i-ca h raro pt l--uad  - bna deaths yen rbiise-d of ed--eer      a   _.go-c-ji. _.Iod p-op-sd upy4  Is she TileId World FIcod .ilavY
peynlaraeo  ten-year aniooelsef ae-ge- ending an1960 a-d 10711. and  ' Ue R  -,L u7eicP%ool -o,~,pi s  ao  a n- iu   i o  1fe
-rcgeedieg an9Il5 foeos.   aiersaos                      danrund fe-n ,itsa~ad P."e."   got    e 
so te i 0m.llrfiv-yea  --rge- ndieg a 1960. 197C and 1907 for
de-rIuiei Ecrors                                                   dsa.ani-
hour tolc.r sorial eprodutic ,p-sd ii she e-perence  presnt age-  PenoesraJ of prisaY slclaupopslroI"   uloe   clcdo    gedl
sycai-  f rlrorue, asslt fsso-yar --ergs enuig n196,                kl pear   hoe "dIu.l e  foI afro   erb   c  r.a0ana
1970 n 1915 fcc dueioyp-g 000         ~for ec-ros-                               -thasos. edcsot. eeoull-tn           --rvoed 1071
Otos lotion genuth rote it) - total- tieP-td anea rothr notes of nid-  si-u  u  ppi iou helter  'hi a-e die faii nrl  ag-.
roepufluet- doe 1957-0.1960-70 aed 1970-7.5.                     distdenlen        asoscnozshc            Crptoisaun
I          lofjntttons ~~~~~~    ~~~~of -ranara eu ffect -topa-  -narevse P,-povdes "eoa I.: ceencans_  enr eather te---sg
iili  f dor  tcg Coasee                                         Iesrooio     fur Papils or 12 to 17 yvasI ao  s .pn-re
Ileh- ep.~irinio o7 f re-l( - lt-s If -rbanL to ren  pepulaneeteuss r generaly eceboded.
itiet df ao1nae- of -rh- ares nap a~ffet -oparbality of data,  ee   f coio&roae        _(firttadstu      u;      rlpaso
dop--tt toIneenr - thld-n (0-lb yer)  origae    I-bynr).         nilyo    unlrly _atlrd
ad eru    f   --yar and omen) asp- ergso    i-e ppr-tsne           nenoeinenLni_en~t (,,t,,cTA,.       itt -a    ortut
__odot_dni e -ta-ha rm  of onpulatiun under 15 a-d 65 -ed -a to      -oetid technical. Itdes,tr-a enuhrIyO  as aii lo.
rh-s ol ages 15 tbr-gIh 64                                         indepe.dosrly ra   lprtan   of e..ond-ry -nti rtsca-
fEnotednodni ratIo - jatiu of Ppoplatioc trodc- IS and 65 and nr     Adalt iituoacy~ rt  12-Lireae-   jlt  (ale. roi    a,d mrn)
to thu lbor fene toagngncco 1-64 year.                         Per..cLrogofr a-1 adair popolnete- aged 15 years uIr sr
aronpues f sinh-cusoel  enjos aode-as -poen ef net-nnl f-nily  ThT9&oii_i,
pl aenang progeani-oe--cnt-n                                   Ponus e cco     anroe - Aon-ge e-abee of peron par 005Jt
hotly olnening-teces ~~(14 of arn sra  Pretges of I.arned         un-psedrolaexoal dlliogs le rban area,    dwelInseiie
en all minored wenno to nam age group.                   Oneenled dwelljgs watlisqan nP'ed wa1:n-(_  - dlcei.psad-cettoett_nea
dwl-     ainiba   ndrra    resd   ob-11  6-p-deoirnidptd
roiyte                                                             aste f-niljne- aa per-etage of all acoaptad dsaulijsg-
Ita  lbor fort (tbhusand) - to--eesiaIy anio- peen_i, _Inodieg    A-ceas to~ nleerc-tyj~falig0ll,5      -Ineta        d- e-tge
aned oce   n I'd mtoyn  bar n,dieg hou.ewiJ-n5 tcI,dent, nc.,       with eIterracty an legog qa~ta-er as p-reao  otaI d.ianlosi
l.,ihor fence t- .gei-t-or  (7.) - Agni-elnena  labor for- (I. faming,  h-uIa d-eiliig5i00Srd  oeetrciy 7)_Copltoaoefur
fur-ssy, hencung aed flabsof) as percetage of rntal labor force     rura d-alltgs only.
Uue-pluyed (. of labsr forn-l U- lipl-.yed se os- aly dof-od as peron
who are ablc and uilling tu rais a job, Out ef a 701 on a glee d.y, oasantro
rename.dosnI a    b, and seeking okfor a specified niesIrt penbot          -~! enicfa rbha cop) - All types of   caneIon radio brod-
ens envued asp. one cueb, ny ntbceparchIeI hnwe e..nstse  due to  cats ro general pnhlu pun thos-Od of pupiA~ti-n, -ttldos
diflenot nf tut as uisneoloo n and,d- sonree of dt.e.g., -mploypI- - alnadreenr    hrunntie    .ad so year wbe. -gtst-art- or
lteed--raborton_  Pe-nesge of prvae bnc    (her iIn -ah asd kid)   aan1     sr(ertnnol-Paseen ger ears -ctpnin -ato"er
receton d s  ihetv   ,tbs 207-~petreor 211., adpooret 4007 of       seatin tens- than eight Pe.a-r, , e-cld-s ai-lsos,hse   n
hr  ibud,                                                            mltary oohuls.
L,tihsa- 01 lan.d -ea-hsin - P--cnt.agns f land twed by -analhsl-t   nir-ua, pehlio and plieatn leenieiny to ktLeaar heirs pee capita
107 and Poorest l1l7 of Ia-d ioeie                                   gn-alty bu-d no prsd-erio data, -tshner ai11ea-c Ifan los-3t
geida a       tolwig friprsar  airso     leniy
fIsaIah and eocsu                                                     loaen     k/rpenn        e   aiaanc      nsapIn to kilugar-s
Psealantes per lrbcesasae -PopuIlation dic,idrd by nbo-o af p...iting  estima-d (no dranosin p-od-niun plus net sapeese of -eaP, o..
phy-toia- qaa1if-d fIn  a         helolauel LteoeOip ee



BCONOMIC WE1022~~~~~~~~~q                            Page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounts in m-illons ofU..    olars
--Actuial                        Projected           jL%7      1c'73 -  1975 -   1975 -   1973    1975     1980
1973     1974    1975         19716    1977   1l80-      lq72    1975     1977     1980              ___
NAT ICIsAL ACCO10VT                                                                                                   ___
At 1973              Pricez & Exchange R.,t,       A,-,rw-c Annual G;rowth Rates      As Percent of GDY
'3rki:, Oonestic I'rculu,ct    1866-.4  1f91-7C 6 1966.7-   2-0-6-5.1  -2168.3  2510.1     6.0     2. 7      5.0      5.3    100.0    102.0   101.0
Gaiis f'rom Trerms of Tr ad eL  _____     -20.5    -38.4      +19.7      -5.0   -24.9                                                  -2.0     -1.0
Gross T)omesti, Income          18664 r  T        TIM  1  -9rT  2-084.8  2163.3  24-8 5.2   5.0      1.6      5.9      5.2    1O00.0   1O00.0  100.0
Import (mci. NI'S)    545.1   ~~~~508.4  474.6      427.4    464.1   549.1        7.4    -6.7     -1.1      3.0      29.2    24.6    22.1
Exot    im~port capacity) 417.2    304.1    275.5       328.2    324.1   436.6       2.7   -18.7       8.5      9.7     22.4     14.3    17.6
Resoi,rce Gap                    127.9   .204.3    199.1       99.2     14 0.0  112.3                                           6.9     10.3     4.5
Consumption E:xpenditures       1588.8   1654.2   1669.1     1719.0    1829.1  2062.5       5.5     2.5       4.7      4.3     85.1     86.6    83.0
Investment   "   (mncl. stocks) 405.5    447.2     458.3      465.0    474.2    535.0       9.7     6.3       1.7      3.1     21.7    23.8     21.5
Domestic Savings                277.6     242.9    259.2      365.8     334.2   422.7       2.5    -3.3      13.5     10.3     14.9    13.4     17.0
National Savings                 271.3    269.5    309.7      402.1     375.1   447.5       3.2      6.8     10.0      7.6     14.5     16.1    18.0
MERCHAN4DISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total
1973    1974     1975
Tapor-ts__                                                                                                                        _      _ _
Capit-al goods                 116.0    149.6    199.8                        309.4                                          23.9    20.8     27.3
rn+ermediate goods (w.fuels) 180.7     228.7     213.7                       455.9                                           37.2    31.8    29.2
7'uels and related materials   41.8      74.8     87.8                        156.2                                           8.6    10.4     12.0
of which:  Petroleum        (41.8)    (74.8)   (87.8)                      (156.2)                                         (8.6)  (10.4)   (12.0)
Consumption good               147.2    266.0    230.5                  -     279.5                                         i..n .a.  .IL.7  ..3'L.5
Tot-al Merch. Taot     cf r07            IT~719           ~    --    850     10.
rts (cif)  485.r  719.1  73T.9   ~~~'92.1  935.0  1200.9 ~100.0                         100.0    100.0
Exports
Primar-y products (mml. fuels) 261.3    304.9    259.4                        581.6                                          79 .7   80.1     7 9. 0
Fuels and related materials    12.5      18.3     18.1                         36.0                                           3.8     4.8      5.5
of which:  Petroleum        (12.5)    (18.3)   (18.1)                       (36.0)                                         (3.8)   (4.8)    (5.5)
manufactured   ods54.1                   57.5     50.9                        132.9                                          16.      151     1.
Total  erc h ~c   ts (rob)    327TT     3 7T     3=r       4OTT      480. 0   750.5                                         100.0   100.0    100.0
Tourism and Border   Traoe      ..        .
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 1973 -      00        _______
Export Price Index            100.0    145. 5  -142.0       19.1      8.      1.
Impo,rt Price Index           100.0    159.0    168.4       178.6    195.3   239.7
Terms of Trade Index          100.0     91.5      84.3      105.9     96.2    91.2
Exports Volume Index          100.D     79.8      70.5       70.7     77.9   104.3
VALUJ  A.DDED BY SECTOR           Annual Data at 1973 - Price,~ and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
1967-72  1973-75  1I975-8~0       1973    1975     1980
Agriculture                   645.1    624.1     666.7      700.0    724.5   808.4           2.6      1.5      3.9           3-9.4   38.1    36-.2
Industry and Mining           306.2    306.2    299.2       314.2    329.9   395.3           5.0     -1.2      5.7           18.7    17.1    17.7
Service                       686.1    742.8    783.9       823.0    874.7  1029.5           6.1      6.8      5.6         .AL.9   -.AA.8   .A..
Total                        1637.4   1'673.1   1749.8     1837.2   1929.1  2233.2           4.5      3.2      5.0          100.0   100.0   100.0
Prelim.      Est.
PUBLIC, FINANCE                  FY 73    FY 74    FY 75       FY 76                                                             As Percent of GDP
(   -Central Government)                                                                                                        1973    1974    1975
Current Receipts             2284     3022     3900        3994                                                             20.1     21.8   2i1. 2
Current Eenditures           2066     2695     3991        3630                                                              18.1    21.1    20.5
Buadgetay  avings             218      327      -91         36                                                               2.1      0.7     1.4
Other Public Sector           564      754        .                                                                          3.9      4.7
Pabilic Sector Investment     956     1642     2352       2309                                                               9.9     12.6    12.5
CU7RRENJT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                Actual        Prelim.   Est.
As % Total Current Fxpend.           FY1972  FY1-974    FY1975   FY1976
Education                              r7FT    177-      T3       17.1
other Social Services                  14.5    15.5       12.2     14.4
Agriculture                             8.9    12.1       13.3      7.0
Other Economic Services                12.4    12.2      10.3       9.2
Administration aLnd Defenise           36,2    35.1       30.9     31.9
Other                                  10.3     7.9       18.3     20.4
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   100.0     100.0     100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1965-      1973-    1975-   1975-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1972       1975     1977    1978
Average ICOR                                     -T9        .6       -r      4r.
Imnport Elasticity                                1.6      -2.5     -0.2      0.6
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                    0.1      -0.2      0.4      0.3
Marginal National Savings Rats                    0.2       0.6      0.3      0.2
LABOR FORCE AND                      Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (Current Pr~ DL
OUTPLJT PER WORKER              In Millions         %of Total                            In U.S.Dollars      Percent of Av-enge
1971_              19717                                  1971                   1971
Agriculture                           5.3               91                                     98                     43
Industry                             0.1                 2                                   1590                    694
Service                              0.4                 7                                   2170                    948
Total                                5.8               100                                     29                     0
not applicable        -nil or negligible
not available        --lees than half theEACI
smallest unit shownl                                                                                            February 1977



Page 4 of 4 pages
,Ai,ACi 1F PAYcE'rS2, EXjKR7,AL ASSIaTAN' - A'ID DEI',
~amtunts in ollqatns of U.S. dollars at current nrices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                           196nated      1               Projected                                               Growth Rate
197 3       1974        197 5                1976          9 77       )576        1 979        1980                                17-90
SUMKARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (mncl. NFS)                          417.2        445.9       461.0               576.0         621 7      809.8       915.2        1029.6                                  13.8
Inot      ol    PS                            545.1       779.1       794.2               750 1         890.2     1035.3       1158 3       1294.1                                  13.1
Resource Balance IX-M)                      -127.9       -713.2      -333.2               T5T          iTW3        -It         2JY~1 
Interest (net)                                -3.9         0           -2.1               -15.8         -17.9      -21.3       -28.1        -36 6                                   38.0
Direct Investnent Income                      -7.4        -4 0         -7.3                -3.8          -3.6       -5.0        -5.0          -5.0
Workers' Remittance e                                                                                                                                                                 _
Curroct Transfers (net)                         5.0        45 3        93.0                83.3         100.0      100.0        100.0        100.0                                  55.0
balance on Current Accounts                 -134.2      -271.9       -249.6              -110.4        -190.0     -151.8       -T_7.         2061                                    6.3
Private Direct InvesUment                      9.9          6.3         5.6                 6.0           6.0         6.0         6.0          6.0
Official Capital Grants
Public MNT Loans
Dlsbursements                               98.7        138.0-/     229.4-              188.8-'       234.4      282.9        328.7        364 7                                  21.0
-R_eayments                                 -16.4       -14.1        -15.0               -21.6         -23.2      -23.9       -25.8        -34.2                                   10.5
Net Disbursements                             82.3        123.9       214.4                             211.2      259.0        302.9        330.5                                  22.0
Other MhLT Loans
Disbursements
-Re    sents
Net ..isbursementa                                          ,,                                            .,                       ..                 eu                        Btrae
_RT_'T gsemanta                                                                                             ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actiml  Estinsted
Capital Transactions n.e.c.                   72 6         56.93/      20.43/              -3.9                                       1972      1973      1974      1975         1976
Change in Net Reserves                        -30.6        84.8         9.2               -58.9        DEAT a6D DEBT SEiRVICE
Plblic Debt Out. &i Disbursed 359.9     460.2     611.1      787.5       787.5
GRANT AND 1OAN COMOITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like                   58.5        65.8        96.8                123.7         Interest on Public Debt       6.6       8.2       8.6       11.2        12.8
Repayments on Public Debt    29.1       16.4      14.1      15 0        21.6
Public MALT Loans                                                                                        Total Public Debt Service    35.7      24.7      22.7       26.2        34.5
IbRD                                            -        65.0        30.0                              Othe. Debt Service (net)
IDA                                          22.6        61.2        10.0                              Total Deot Servace (net)                                       '          ''
Other                                         1.8         7.1         7.1
Other Multilateral                              -           -           -                            Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                                  82.8       127.1        91.3
Suppliers                                       -           -           -                              Public Debt Service           9.0       5.9        4.9       5.7         6.0
Financial Institutioss                          -           -           -                              Total Debt Service                                  ''
Bonds                                           -           -           -                              PDS+Direct Invest. Inc.      10.1       7.7       5.7        7.3         6.6
Public Loans n.e.t.                           --
Total Public MALT Loans                       107.1       260.4       138.4                            Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975                    Int. as % Prior Tear D1DD      2.3       2.3       1.9        1.8         1.6
SXTERI;AL DBT                                  Disbu_rsed Only             Psrcent                        .Amort. as % Prior Yeer DO&D  10.2        4.6       3.1       2.5         2.7
World Bank
IDA                                                80.8                    10.3                        IORD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                                 19.0                     2.4                         "   as % Public Debt O&D       6.7        7.1       6.7      10.2        10.1
Governments                                       557.6                    70.8                             as % Public Debt Service4  3.5        8.9      12.5      18.4        20.4
sunmli,er,                                         23.8                      3.0
Financial Institutions                             12.3                      1.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                               4.2                     0.5                         cas % Public Debt DAD         13.7       1.2.5     10.4      10.3        12.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                  9.4                      1.2                        cas S Public Debt O&Dc4/       1.2        1.726
Total Public MtLT Debt                            78f.5                   iO  0 2. 
Other MALT Debts
Short-tarm Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                  e  staff estimate                   1/  Includes drawing on Arab Fund for Africa ($7.1 a)
..not avai labl e
not available separatly- nil or negligible                                                          2/  Includes bilateral and multilateral program assistance
but included in total                                             less than half the               3/  Includer use of IMF resources
but included on total                            ~~~~~~~smallest unit shown       i/  lBRD and IDA debt service sc 7 of public debt service
EA CPIA
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year     Borrower   Purpose                          Bank   IDA- Undisbursed
Four loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  70.2   57.0
586-TA   1969    Tanzania    Roads                             7.0             1.4
217TA   1970        "       Tobacco                                  9.0      0.4
232-TA   1970                Education                                3.3      0.7
265-TA   1972                Roads                                    6.5      0.9
287-TA   1972                Smallholder Tea                         10.8      3.2
371-TA   1973                Education                               10.2      8.9
382-TA!1  1973               Livestock                               18.5      9.1
454-TA   1974                Cotton                                  17.5     14.7
460-TA   1974                Tanzania Investment Bank                 6.0      2.4
1014-TA   1974                Cashewnut                        21.0            11.6
495-TA   1975                Sites and Services                       8.5      5.1
507-TA   1975        "       Highway Maintenance                     10.2      9.3
508-TA   1975                Rural Development                       10.0      8.9
1041-TA   1975                Sugar                             9.0             5.4
580-TA   1975                Dairy                                   10.0      8.8
1128-TA   1975                Textile                          15.0            13.5
1172-TA   1975                Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0            11.4
601-TA   1976                Technical Assistance                     6.0      6.0
606-TA   1976                National Maize Program                  18.0     16.7
607-TA   1976                Education                               11.0     10.8
1306-T TA 1976                Power                           30.0             30.0
1307-TA   1976                Forestry                         7.0              7.0
652-TA   1976                Fisheries                                9.0      8.9
658-TA   1976                Tobacco Processing                      8.0       8.0
1354-TA   1976               Urban Water Supply               15.0             15.0
Total                                     189.2  229.6    218.1
of which has been repaid                  2.1    4.3
187.1 225.3
Amount sold                  0.1
of which has been repaid   0.1
Total now outstanding2/                   187.1  225.3
Total undisbursed                          95.3  122.8
1/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $2.8 is undisbursed
2/ Net of exchange adjustments.
n.b. A Program Credit of $15.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on March 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1977
(US$ million)
No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                         Amount less cancellation
Bank        Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                  75.0
638-EA   1969    EAHC       Harbours                        35.0             1.7
674-EA   1970    EARC       Railways                        42.4             9.31/
675-EA   1970    EAPTC      Telecommunications              10.4             0.0-
865-EA   1972    EAHC       Harbours                        26.5             6.8
914-EA   1973    EAPTC      Telecommunications              32.5             8.0
1204-EA   1976    EADB       Development Finance             15.0            15.0
Total                                           244.8            40.8
of which has been repaid                       36.9
Total now outstanding                           207.9
Amount sold                  24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4                0
Total now held by Bank./                        207.9
Total undisbursed                                40.8
1/ $8,481.87 remains undisbursed.
2/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 173
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1'
(As of March 1, 1977)
There are currently 24 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1 1971; Closing Date - December 30, 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete, all 15
compLexes and 114 vilLages are estabLished and water development has
improved with 54 viLlages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary
water and the remaining 10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km
of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates of
1,104 km. The reduced road construction program is however considered
sufficient for present production. A total of 10,700 farmers, about
70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total production of wet
Leaf from the project is estimated to have increased from 675,000 kg in
1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76. Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased
tobacco production. However, yields per hectare and quality of Leaf
have been below anticipated Levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and cooperative services.
Credit No. 287-TA - SmalLholder Tea Project: $10.8
million credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
JuLy 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
After initiaL serious management problems the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory leveL of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an -improve-
ment in the control over the field activities. A recent supervision mission
-----------------------------------
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regardina
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions beina taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a baLanced evaluation of
strenoths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX I I
Page 4 cf 13
estimated that 5,734 hectares had been planted by the end of 19-75/76
season, i.e. 69% of the target of 8,300 ha which shouLd have been
achieved by June 1974. Yields are Lower than expected due to competi-
tion from coffee and/or maize in some areas and Lack of labor and poor
soiL conditions elsewhere. This may adversely affect the viabiLity
of TTA which is already seriousLy overstaffed and depends on factory
profits for its revenue. TTA has prepared an initial proposal for a
second phase project but before proceedina considerable examination
of existing problems will be needed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September_28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Project implementation has been extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal forecast. This reflects
the size and complexity of the project and delays encountered in recruiting
staff and concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and supply
of heavy earth movina machinery. Project impLementation is expected to
pick up momentum now that scnie of these problems have been resolved. However,
a number of post-appraisal developments such as marked reduction in the
world market price of bully beaf and meat products, escalation of project
costs, the availability of adequate beef supplies, delays in project imple-
mentation and the weak financial position of the implementing organization
have adversely affected viability of the project. Because of this an
indepth review is beina undertaken by the Bank staff and consultants.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
This project continues to face severe operational difficulties
aLthough progress has been made during the year in the consolidation of
scattered holdings into villaae block farm areas. There have been continu-
ing difficulties in effectively usina technical assistance and in properLy
integrating project management with the regional authorities. More important,
recent analysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank-financed project pre-
paration team in Mwanza has raised questions about the technical package
oriainally recommended for this project. This matter is presently under
close examination by the Government and the Bank and various options are
being considered. A Bank technical review mission is scheduled to visit
Tanzania in March.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 2, 1974; CLosing Date - December 31    1981
The project has been progressing satisfactoriLy with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consoLi-
dation of its activities are proceedina slowly. Its Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningfuL
financial and physical control over the Authority's activities. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for growth resultina from the project's con-
struction of five additional cashewnut processing factories.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20_1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The rate of construction of most villaae infrastructure durina
the past six months has been impressive. The villagers' self-help con-
tribution is extremely positive, and the organization of Government
services has considerably improved, although the supply of critical
materials still presents a bottleneck. The construction of classrooms
and godowns are going on very well but performance on health facilities
and on water supply systems is disappointing, the latter due to limited
implementation capacity of the Regional Water Enoineer's Office. Agricul-
tural performance is mixed. Last year's crop seems to show sizeable in-
creases in the regional production but yield levels are low. Moreover,
farmer commitment to the present season's crop seems     mixed    with late
planting and limited interest in procurina inputs. Proposed Government
programs of villaae-level trials and improved aaricuLtural extension have
not yet begun. Delivery of part of the present season's inputs has been
delayed by the unavailability of train waaons in Dar es Salaam. Marketing
of last season's crops proceeded generally satisfactorily, although problems
of cash advances continue to arise and credit payment is only about 35%.
Training of village bookkeepers and extension workers is going accordina
to schedule. Little progress has yet been made on the minor project com-
ponents of fisheries, feeder roads and livestock. The baseline survey for
project evaluation is virtually completed and promises interestina results.



ANNEX II
Page 6 , 43
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
DeveLopment Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 miLLion
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; CLosinn Date - December 31, 1979
Estate and outgrower development continues satisfactorily and
ahead of schedule. Project management is confident that aLL clearing
and planting could be completed one year earlier than forecast. The new
factory was opened by the President of Tanzania on August 3, 1976 and
commenced milling on September 10, 1976. Initial teething problems
have hampered output and attempts are being made to sort these out.
The housing construction proaram has improved and completion will only
be sLightly behind target. There continues to be difficulties in the
provision of adequate project funds from the Government and the lack of
a cLear policy for cane growing by estate, outgrowers, and ujamaa villages
is Likely to affect future supplies.
Credit No. 580-TA Dairy Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 28,
1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
"rorress on the development of the Larce farms has been generally
satisfactory although they are facing difficulties owing to a Lack of ade-
quate working capital. The Government and Project entities are currently
expLorir,g ways to deal with this problem. Sub-projects for the ujamaa
component are presently being identified. The Dairy processing component
is in general progressing well.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit o' iaruary 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976, Closing Date - June 30L 1980
Although the National Maize 0roject has had a satisfactory start it
is now beset by a number of problems. The deficiencies of support services,
the lack of extension field staff, shortages of transportation and the in-
stability of regional supervisory staff are limiting the effective and systematic
transmission of innovations to farmers. Contribution of farmers to the financing
of project inputs for the 1975/76 season have been disappointing but do re-
present, however, a significant improvement over the previous year's performance.
Deficiencies in coordination between the central ministry responsible for the
overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local implementation
have caused difficulties but the Government is taking specific steps to address
these issues. The recent disbandment of cooperative unions has created a
serious gap in the maize marketing system which the National Maize Corporation
CNMC) has difficulties to fill.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $8.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress achieved durina the 1975/76 planting season was satis-
factory. For the next year's planting program -- the first project year --
it is envisaged that 2,000 ha would be planted compared with 1,500 ha in
the appraisal estimate. The Project Director, the Silviculturalist/Forest
Economist and Financial Controller have been recruited. The Roads/Mechanical
Engineer is still not recruited. The fire hazard in the area is particularly
serious this year as the dry period started two months earlier than normal.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12_ 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
So far, project implementation is satisfactory particularly the
components under the direct manaaement of the Ministry of NaturaL Resources.
However, Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) is experiencino difficulty
in reaching agreements with the District Development Corporations for the
establishment of the commercial fishing centers. The DDCs appear to be
reluctant to enter into joint ventures as minority sharehoLders with
TAFICO. As a result of the delay in project approval, there has been some
delay in project implementation. The project Coordinating Committee
therefore proposed a new implementation schedule to the November/December
1976 supervision mission which was endorsed by all parties involved.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project:    $8.0 milLion
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -February 15,
1977; Closin2 Date - December 31    2 1981.
This project was declared effective on February 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 miLLion
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The CLosina Date for this project has been extended 12 months
to December 31, 1977 to provide ample time for its completion. AlL
civil works,furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% complete and are expected to be completed before
the current Closing Date. Ineffective project unit management, currently
under-staffed because of budgetary problems and shortage of qualified
personnel, has limited follow-up activities and delayed correction of
deficiencies. A number of changes in programs and management of the
institutions involved in this project have been discussed with the
Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Estimates of project cost overruns are now reduced to about
25% over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project
(deletion of three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated
bids on civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works
have started on 10 sites. Disbursements are only 15% of appraisal
estimates. Time lost in design and tenderino is being made up, but
project completion is likely to be about 12 months behind schedule. A
medical health consultant has given impetus to the lagging medical
health components of the project. The experimental self-help construction
project item (eioht Community Education Centers) requires special attention
in future to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Disbursements
are not a good criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now
satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. All five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VMT courses commenced



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
at three of the five Centers. Budgetary constraints are Likely to impose
a reduction in the level of training activity in the coming year. The
Project Executive is adequately staffed. Also, the program has been
handicapped by slow procurement of vehicles and equipment and delays in the
construction of housing. Planning and tendering for schools in the secondary
schools component is progressing well.
IANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-       $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971, Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1973
Project imolementation has been slow and the Closing Date of the
project has been postponed twice.    The new construction work on the !ikindani-
Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually completed in
December 1976. However, apart from preliminary material investigations and
testing, no work has commenced on the repair, improvement and resealing of
the road from Mdtwara to Mikindani; it is anticipated that the work will
be undertaken in the first half of 1977. The progress of the Geita and
Mara Betterment and Maintenance Units is still below expectations as both
Units continue to be hampered by breakdowns of equipment, delays in getting
spare parts and shortages of cement. We have received one of the two Dre-
investment studies financed under the project. Project completion is now
estimated by the end of 1970.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project:     $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closina Date - June 30, 1979
Project components are behind schedule but progress is now picking
up. A contract has been signed with ORT of Geneva for 21 technical experts
but this was far later than originally planned. Progress on the construction
of workshops, offices and road camps has been slow. The first lot of equip-
ment procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures has
-----------------------------------
The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. When the project was completed, surplus funds of US$1.9
million were allocated to the Third Highway Project in 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
begun arriving in Tanzania The problem of ensuring adequate Local resources
for project implementation has been focused on and discussed with the Govern-
ment by the recent supervision mission. The consultant's report on the road
transport industry was taken into consideration in the recent appraisal of
a proposed project to assist the trucking industry in Tanzania.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 31, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding well. The construction work on all
seven sites are expected to be completed on schedule. Other components
of the project are progressing satisfactorily. Because of the inconsisten-
cy of the Credit documents with the Land Rent and Services Act, some
modification of the documents are necessary. Proposed changes have been
forwarded by the Government to the Association for review.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - I'-han Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 29, 1977; Dote of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
JLosin2 Date - March 31L 1980
This Loan was declared effective on March 2, 1977.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this Loan are proceeding quickly. Sub-projects
totalling $9.5 million have been approved for disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page i1 of 13
Loan 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 milLion
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; CLosing Date - July 1, 1979
The project is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenders for the bulk of the plant and machinery have
been evaluated and contracts placed with suppliers. Contracts for civil
works have been concLuded. The cost of the project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consuLtants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to produ-ce cotton-polyester blend material
is underway.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - September 14,
1976i Closing Date - June 30   1980
After some delays, the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) selected
TATA ConsuLting Engineers to provide personneL to implement the project.
The contract was signed in the middle of October and the personnel arrived
in late 1976. TIB has taken preliminary steps to market the facilities
under the project to parastatals and Government agencies. Considering
the limited publicity given, the response is encouraging. However, many
potential users have not responded yet and a more intensive and extensive
effort is necessary. The studies for improving efficiency or existing
investments and the implementation of the training program had not
commenced at the time of the Last supervision mission.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 mil!ion Loan of August 12, 1976; bate of Effectiveness -
March-L12977i-Closing Date - December 31L 1981
This loan was declared effective on March 1. 1977. Contractor c
offers for all major works have been received and the main civil engineering
bids indicate there may be significant cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page12 of 13
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently 6 projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of
consultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial
issues. Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed
their asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have
submitted a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973- Closing Date - June 30g 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contract, which have been awarded. Some
smaller project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA will
have to be deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been
increased accordingly from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-
put has declined considerably. General cargo through-put has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are being used. Cargo
handling productivity here has improved with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 843-EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
Seetember-281972-- Cl2sing_Date__- June 30g 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7_1976; Closing Date - March 31_ 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
Setten_ber191973i_Closing Date - December 31 1979
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system cons-
truction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the
headquarters. Because of the long time lead required for the micro-
wave equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-
1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31,
1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER           :  United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT             :  Two loans totalling $23 equivalent comprising:
(a) Third Window Loan of $11.5 million equivalent, and
(b) Bank Loan of $11.5 million equivalent.
TERMS              :  (a)  Standard Third Window Terms, with first
payment of principal to start on January 15,
1983 and final maturity on January 15, 2001,
at an interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum.
(b) Twenty years including four ana one-half
years of grace at 8.5 percent per annum.
RELENDING
TERMS              :  The Government would onlend the proceeds of both
loans to the National Development Corporation (NDC)
for 15 years including four and one-half years of
grace at a rate of 10 percent per annum. NDC would
in turn pass on the proceeds to its operating su-
sidiaries partly as debt ($21.5 million) on the same
terms as above and partly as equity.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION           The establishment of an Industrial Complex at
Morogoro including (i) the first phase (65 ha)
of an industrial estate including necessary infra-
structure and facilities for small and medium scale
industries; (ii) a shoe factory to produce 2 million
pairs of leather shoes and 2 million pairs of canvas
shoes per year; and (iii) a leather goods factory
to fabricate handbags, suitcases, jackets and various
minor items from about 180,000 square meters of finished
leather per year.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
ESTIMATED COST
Capital Cost"Y
(millions)
US$                         %
LC         FE           Total
Consolidated Project
Equipment                         .5        5.4           5.8          36.3
Civil Works                      3.4        3.9           7.3         45.6
Cons. & Eng. Services             .4        2.1           2.5          15.6
Training                          .1         .3            .4          2.5
Base Cost                      4.4        11.7         16.0         100.0
Contingencies                    2.1        5.2           7.3         45.6
Installed Cost                 6.5        16.9         23.3         145.6
Net Working Capital              5.2        3.7           8.8          55.0
Int. During Construction         1.0        3.1           4.1         25.6
Total Financing            12.6        23.6         36.2         226.2
By Project Component
1. Industrial Estate             3.7        5.8           9.5         26.2
2. Shoe Factory                  8.3       17.4          25.7         71.0
3. Leather Goods Factory          .6         .4           1.0          2.8
Total Financing            12.6        23.6         36.2         100.0
-/Discrepancies to a tenth of a million occur due to rounding.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
FINANCING PLAN:                                            US$
(millions)
Local         Foreign       Total
Industrial Estate
Debt      (IBRD|                            -                   5.5
Equity   (NDC)_/                           3.7            .3          4.0
Shoe Factory
Debt      (IBRD)                            -           15.4          15.4
Equity    (NDC)2/                          8.3           2.0          10.3
Leather Goods Factory
Debt     (IBRD)                             _             .6            .6
Equity   (NDC)                              .4            -             .4
12.4          23.8          36.2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS-/:
Fiscal Years
(US$ 000's)
1978      1979       1980      1981   1982   1983
7,100    8,300     4,700      1,900    500    500
1/   Of which US$1.0 million are IBRD funds.
2/   Of which US$.5 million are IBRD funds.
3/   Expenditures prior to first quarter 1978 are not significant.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
PROCUREMENT          Industrial estate, shoe factory and leather goods
ARRANGEMENTS         factory.  International competitive bidding for equip-
ment and materials in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines except contracts for small items costing
less than $100,000 could be let following receipt of a
reasonable numberof quotations from qualified suppliers.
Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of
15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever
is the lower. Civil works contracts in excess of
$100,000 would be let following international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Local contractors would be granted preference of 7-1/2
percent. Civil works contracts of less than $100,000
would be let following local competitive bidding in
accordance with the Borrower's ordinary procedures.
CONSULTANCY
SERVICES            Project includes about 60 manyears of consultancy and
technical services expected to cost about $3.6 million
(including contingencies) or $60,000 per manyear.
Consultancy services will be utilized for design,
procurement, construction, training of personnel,
operation and marketing of the output of the shoe
factory. Technical assistance would also be provided
for the management of the industrial estate and leather
goods factory and marketing of its output. Consultancy
services would also be utilized to examine the liquid
waste disposal system for the industrial estate. A
contract for the provision of consulting s.rvices for the
shoe factory design, procurement and construction,
training and start up has been signed between NDC and
Italmacchine. A contract with the same firm for
management and marketing of the output of the shoe
factory is expected to be concluded.
RATE OF RETURN       Overall economic rate of return is estimated at 26.4
percent. Economic rates of return for the individual
components are estimated at 15.9 percent for the indus-
trial estate, 29.8 percent for the shoe factory and
46.5 percent for the leather goods factory.
APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 1213-TA dated March 3, 1977.
MAP              :  A map which shows the location of the proposed project
is attached,



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    One year
(b)  Preparation by               :    National Development Corporation
and Consultants.
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank :    June 1974
(d)  First Bank Mission           :    June 1974
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure       October 5, 1975
(f)  Negotiations                 :    August 19761-
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:    May 15, 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1. Construction of the third and fourth standard factory buildings
of the industrial estate would start only when justfied by demand
and after consultation with the Bank (paragraph 62).
2. NDC shall employ a qualified Project Manager and provide him with
adequate staff, facilities and professional services (paragraph 67).
3. NDC would establish subsidiary corporations of NDC for the three
project components by December 1, 1978 (paragraph 67).
1/   See comment in para 60 of President's Report.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
4. NDC would employ an industrial estate manager by December 1,
1978 after consulting with the Bank on his qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment (paragraph 63;.
5. A firm, acceptable to the Bank, would be recruited to assist in the
design, procurement of construction and equipment contracts, supervision
of construction and equipment installation, training of personnel,
start up and management of operations of the shoe factory (parag-
raph 69).
6. A firm, acceptable to the Bank, would be recruited to assist in the
marketing of the output of the shoe factory (paragraph 69).
7. The Bank, the Borrower, NDC and the corresponding Project Company
would exchange views before terminating the contracts referred to
in paragraph 5, 6 and 7 of this Annex (paragraphs 68 and 69'.
8. The Government would onlend the proceeds of the Loans to NDC at
10 percent per annum for 15 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
Interest would be capitalized during the three year construction
period. NDC would pass on the loan proceeds to the industrial
estate partly as debt ($5.5 million) and partly as equity ($1.0
million); to the shoe factory partly as debt ($15.4 million);and
as equity ($0.5 million); and ($0.6 million) to the leather goods
factory million as debt. All loans would be onlent on the same
terms as NDC's obligation to the Government. It would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loans that a subsidiary loan
agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been concluded between NDC
and the Government (paragraph 72).
9. Any shortfall in NDC's equity funding capacity and such additional
funds which may be needed to complete the project will be provided
by theBorrower on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(paragraph 73j.
10. NDC would limit the Debt: Equity ratio of the project companies
to a maximum of 60:40, maintain a ratio of these companies of
current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.5:1 and
maintain a special NDC reserve account equivalent to two years of
the  combined debt service of the project companies (paragraph 73).
11. A study would be carried out by December 1, 1977 to determine if
the evaporation/oxidation pond proposal constitutes an adequate
method of liquid waste disposal for the industrial complex (parag-
raph 78).



oUGANDA~                _       __                                TANZANIA
VI CIORIA ~~Sh"I     KE NY A
|RR~ oRR U" O           R                   MOROGORO INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
RWADRWAA Db               IAuoE        T    D                  PROJECT LOCATION
RWANDA    BREOBA~~ST    Buk,,,   ARA
0 M B    N.~          PROJECT LOCATITI N A  RI DIoN BouNSARIES
MAIN ROADS    DISTRICT ROUBOARIIES
'AKE      -r--.-  RAILWAYS  INFERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Nyo  zu                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAN ZAMI RAILWAY
F.           Bit~wo o I d u eo RE 1g.d
|B U R U N D I                      yuliku.g        Modl         h.
a 0 .      Ka am        NGA                                 RA AMbulu  E7B4
0om         ITO    Urambo  Ta b                        U    ArMt1 
*1           bIIrnb\Y oY.             MOZAMBIQUEA  R R
\ , </   S~~~~pando                           0 DOOOAO W            rtm
+   Runo wro   ) u p  v   ^   P     W       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA ES SALAAM
R EPU BLC I } C<            c H U lIA_          If incSlun.                     silKiu
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI-NR uBE                 o I )
F  Z A M B I A    ~    % -$umort _            JML Y A           U Dte
I ~ ~  ( n:  ya/       \\                           ND   w
SlLOrJETERS l z 2~~~~~~~~0.     U   L   P N   _G/ 
   50   10f0   yo   2010   .   D ,yra  G A)   t    Tunduru  }   _r         g  mAC  1 MG a 
rak wo...... v .l.. 2 M AWI t3-\ !, ,JMOZ A M   B I A  par       L   i0 N  D  I



