Report No. 583a-KE                                                                     LE    At"
Kenya: Appraisal of                                                             F     COPY
Group Farms
Rehabilitation Project
February 14, 1975
Agricultural Credit & Livestock Division
Eastern Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be publi6hed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALSNTS
1 Ksh           =        lCO K centE
1 Ksh           =        US$0.14
US$1            =        7.14 Ksh
WEIGHTS AND MEASULES
1 Acre (ac)             =       0.h05 Hectares
1 Mile                  =       1.609 Kilometers
1 Square Mile          =        2 .5O Square Kilometers (km2)
1 Pound                 =       0.453 KilogramE
1 Long Ton              =       1.016 Metric Tons
1 Kilometer (km)       =        0.62 miles
1 Hectare (ha)         =        2.h71 acres
1 Square Kiloznpter
(uKin)     =        0.386 square miles
I Ton (metric)         =        2,205 (1,000 kg)
1 bag maize or wheat  =         90 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC                     -       Agricultural Finance Corporation
EAA                     -       East African Acceptances
KCC                     -       Kenya Cooperative CreamerieE
KPCV                    -       Kenya Producers Cooperative Union
FISCAL YEAR
AFC - April 1 - March 31



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................ ...............               i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................,                         1
II.    BACKGROUND ........         ...............................        2
A.   General    ................................                   2
B. The Farming Sector ..3
C.   Agricultural Credit .........................                 6
D.   Agricultural Services ..... .............                     7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                          9
A.   General Description ..... .............                       9
B.   Project Phasing and Development .............
C.   Detailed Features ...................... .                   12
D.   Project Costs .................14.............. 
E.   Financing ..............,.,..............                     15
F.   Procurement .......         ..........................       16
G.   Disbursement           ................................      16
H.   Accounts and Audit ......          ....................       17
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................   '              7
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS ...r..                2
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS.
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Background
2.   Agricultural Credit
Table 1 - AFC Balance Sheet
Table 2 - AFC Income Statements



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Table 3 - AFC Cash Flow
Table 4 - AFC Project Cash Flow
Table 5 - EAA Balance Sheet
3.   Agricultural Services
4.   Detailed Farm Budgets
Draft Terms of Reference - Large-Scale Farm Study
Mixed Farm Model
Table 1 - Physical Data
Table 2 - Capital Investment
Table 3 - Replacement Schedule
Table 4 - Revenue and Variable Costs
Table 5 - Fixed Costs
Table 6 - Cash Flow
Table 7 - Variable Cost Details
Table 8 - Crop Costs and Revenues
Coffee Estate Model
Table 9 - Yields, Production and Prices
Table 10- Variable and Fixed Costs
Table 11- Cash Flow
Table 12- Financial Returns on Model Farms
5.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Costs
Table 2 - Staffing Requirements and Costs
6.   Project Financing
Table   - Project Financing:  Summary
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
8.   Markets and Prices
Table   - Incremental Project Production
9.   Government Cash Flow



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
10.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2 - Price Derivations Used
Table 3 - Sensitivity Analysis
CHART     -    Project Organization
MAP       -    Group Farms Rehabilitation:  Mixed Farming and
Coffee Project Areas






KFNYA
GROUP FARMS REHATILITATION PrOJECT
SL7124ARY A'D CONCLUSIONIS
i.        Agriculture remains by far the most important part of the Kenyan
economy; it contributes the largest portion of GNP and exports and employs
an overwhelming proportion of the labor force. Prior to about 1960, the
agricultural sector mainly comprised large-scale commercially oriented mixed
farms and estates owned by Europeans and small-scale subsistence farms owned
by African farmers. During the early 1960's, both before and after indepen-
dence, most of the large-scale farms were either subdivided and settled as
small-scale individual farms or transferred intact to African ownership.
Those transferred intact were mostly purchased by groups of up to several
hundred small farmers or landless persons who banded together because of
their limited individual resources; most large-scale farms are thus coop-
erative type group fasms owned and operated by small landowners.  The large-
scale farms continue to be vital to the economy of Kenya as they produce
about 48% of gross marketed production. Overall, large-scale group farming
has been reasonably successful but many of these farms are producing at much
below their potential because of constraints of finance and management.
Rehabilitation of these less successful farms is important to Government's
objectives of increasing the commercial production of important commodities,
of ensuring adequate basic food supplies for the non-farm population, of
improving a difficult balance of payments position and of helping lower
income groups now at subsistence levels. These benefits can be obtained at
comparatively low cost because of the substantial existing but largely un-
utilized investments such as fencing, water and buildings.
ii.       The proposed Project would aid in the rehabilitation of 90 mixed
crop and livestock farms in the Rift Valley Province as well as 36 coffee
estates in the Central Province. It would provide assistance to selected
group farms transferred to Kenyan ownership during the 1960's as part of the
land transfer program which are now in need of credit and improved manage-
ment services. Under the Project medium and long-term loans and working
capital would be provided to the farms for investments in machinery, equip-
ment, infrastructure and inputs such as fertilizer and insecticides. In
order to provide the improved management services essential to the rehabilita-
tion effort, a Fa-.,n Management Section would be established within the Agri-
cultural Finance Corporation (AFC) which would recruit and employ resident
farm managers for each of the mixed farms. Under a loan agreement to be
signed between AFC and the group owners, the owners would agree to carry out
a development plan approved by AFC, to establish a Farm Committee (comprising
AFC, Ministry of Agriculture and two owners) to be responsible for farm deci-
sions and to employ a manager acceptable to AFC and who would be supervised
by AFC's Farm Management Section. East African Acceptances Ltd. (EAM), a
financial institution incorporated in Kenya, or other management companies



- ii -
or agent would provide management services and possibly working capital to
the coffee estates.
iii.      AFC would be directly responsible for Project implementation, although
overall direction would be by a Project Steering Committee. The Ministry of
Agriculture together with District Rehabilitation Committees would aid in the
preliminary selection of mixed farms and would provide them with training as
well as agricultural extension services. AFC's Large Farm Management Section
would review and amend preliminary plans prepared by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture to finally determine which farms would be suitable. Provided the farm
owners approved, AFC would then finalize the necessary agreements and a
resident manager satisfactory to AFC would be appointed. AFC would employ
a number of experienced senior staff to supervise the resident managers and
overall development. Initial selection of the coffee estates would be made
by AFC assisted by the District Rehabilitation Committee. AFC, with the
owners' consent, would then negotiate a management agreement between the
owners and EAA or another management group. The Project would also provide
for a training program for mixed farm managers, a large farm rehabilitation
study, Project evaluation and future Project preparation.
iv.       A Bank loan of US$7.5 million and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million
are proposed which would cover the foreign exchange component (US$10.1 million)
and about 37% of local costs over the five-year period. This would represent
65Z of total Project costs of Ksh 166 million (US$23.2 million). As a per-
centage of Bank/IDA disbursements, the Government would contribute US$3.7
million. The remaining US$4.5 million would also be the responsibility of
the Government; however, these funds are required for working capital for
27 of the 36 coffee estates and Government hopes to persuade EAA or other
management companies to provide at least part of these funds in addition to
their management expertise. About US$15 million from the IDA and Government
contributions would be on-lent to AFC at 3% per annum for a term of 30 years
including a three-year grace period; AFC would on-lend lqan funds to the
group farmers at its normal rate of 9% p.a. Funds lent from Government or
the management companies for working capital to the coffee estates would be
at the current commercial rate. The items to be procured under the Project
would be required at scattered locations and at varying times throughout
the Project period, thus making them unsuitable for international competitive
bidding. Purchases would therefore be made through normal commercial channels,
as local supplies are adequate and prices generally competitive.
v.        At full development (year 6), the annual gross incremental marketed
production resulting from the Project would be 16,500 tons of wheat, 7,500
tons of maize, 3,300 tons of coffee, and 17,500 tons of milk. The total
gross value of this incremental production would be Ksh 72.9 million (US$10.1
million); most of this increased value would be attributable to coffee (Ksh
32.0 million), milk and surplus cattle (Ksh 16.9 million), wheat (Ksh 19.7
million) and maize (Ksh 4.7 million).
vi.       The economic rate of return of the Project would be 42% over a
twenty-year period. Individual rates of return for the coffee estates and
the mixed farms are 54% and 29% respectively. The most important factor in



- iii -
determining the success of the rehabilitation effort would be the ability of
the farms to attract and hold highly qualified management staff. Management
risks are extremely difficult to evaluate, however, and for this reason were
not included in the sensitivity analysis. The major quantifiable risk facing
the Project would be an increase in the cost of inputs without a correspond-
ing increase in farmgate prices. This risk is particularly important in view
of the sensitivity analysis which indicates that 10% increase in the cost of
inputs for mixed farms would reduce the return from 29% to 19%, while a 10%
reduction in production would reduce the return to 20%. Returns from coffee
estates would not be as sensitive to changes in costs or benefits.
vii.      The Project would ensure employment, either permanent or seasonal
depending on the number of group owners involved, for about 12,600 farm
families within the large farm sector. The Project would thus affect a total
population of about 80,000 persons. These families are at present at the
lower income levels of the rural population. At full development each family
would receive, in addition to its subsistence income and earning from labor
of about Ksh 200 p.a., an annual cash income from profits of Ksh 600 on the
mixed farms and Ksh 3,000 on the coffee estates; this would be equivalent
to per capita incomes of Ksh 250 and Ksh 650. The current average per
capita agricultural income, including subsistence, of a rural family in
Kenya is estimated at Ksh 480 (US$70) per annum while the countrywide aver-
age is estimated at Ksh 1,060 (US$150).
viii.     Since 1960 the Bank Group has extended nine other loans or credits
totalling US$56.2 million to assist Kenya's agricultural sector. These in-
clude a loan in 1964 to assist the Kenya settlement program, and two credits
to finance agricultural credit to finance on-farm development. The livestock
industry has been assisted by two credits for ranch development, and the de-
velopment of infrastructure. In addition two credits were extended for the
development of smallholder tea production and a loan for the construction of
tea factories. In 1970 a loan was extended for afforestation for saw-wood
and pulpwood production. in general all projects were well executed, al-
though there were substantial delays in the first agricultural credit and
the first livestock projects due to institutional problems.
ix.       The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.5 million
on the usual terms and a Bank loan of US$7.5 million for a period of 25 years
including a 5-year grace period. The borrower would be the Government of
Kenya.






KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Agriculture remains by far the most important part of the Kenyan
economy; it contributes the largest portion of GNP and exports and employs
an overwhelming proportion of the labor force. Prior to about 1960, the
agricultural sector mainly comprised large-scale commercially oriented mixed
farms and estates owned by Europeans and small-scale subsistence farms owned
by African farmers. During the early 1960's, both before and after indepen-
dence, most of the large-scale farms were either subdivided and settled as
small-scale individual farms or transferred intact to African ownership.
Those transferred intact were mostly purchased by groups of up to several
hundred small farmers or landless persons who banded together because of
their limited individual resources; most large-scale farms are thus coop-
erative type group farms owned and operated by small landowners. The large-
scale fatms continue to be vital to the economy of Kenya as they produce
about 48% of gross marketed production being particularly important for the
production of wheat which is not well suited in Kenya to small-scale produc-
tion. Overall, large-scale group farming, which has had Government's support
but limited financial subsidy, has been reasonably successful but many of
the large-scale farms are producing at much below their potential because
of constraints of finance and management. Rehabilitation of these less
successful farms is important to Government's strategy of producing sufficient
basic foodstuffs for the non-farm population, in reducing imports and increas-
ing exports to improve a difficult balance of payments position and in helping
lower income groups. These benefits can be obtained at comparatively low
cost because of the substantial existing but largely unutilized investments
such as fencing, water and buildings. The proposed project would assist
Government's policy by rehabilitating through provision of credit and manage-
ment, a number of mixed cereal and livestock farms and coffee estates.
1.02      Since 1960 the Bank Group has extended nine loans or credits total-
ling US$56.2 million to assist Kenya's agricultural sector. These include
a loan in 1964 of US$2.6 million to assist the Kenya settlement program, and
two credits in 1967 and 1972 to support an agricultural credit program finan-
cing on-farm development. The livestock industry has been assisted by two
credits for ranch development, meat processing and the development of infra-
structure. In addition two credits were extended for the development of
smallholder tea production and a loan for the construction of tea factories.
Also, a loan was extended for afforestation for saw-wood and pulpwood produc-
tion. In general all projects have been well executed, although there were
substantial delays in the first agricultural credit and the first livestock
projects due to institutional problems. In 1974 a Bank agricultural sector
survey was completed, and this will assist in identifying future needs for
agriculture in Kenya.



1.03      The Project was prepared by Government with assistance from the IBRD
Regional Mission in East Africa (RNEA). This report is based on the findings
of a Bank/IDA appraisal mission which visited Kenya in April-May 1974 composed
of Messrs. D. B. Argyle, T. Baddar, G. R. Henderson and A. Marot.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Lying astride th2 equator on the eastern coast of Africa, Kenya has
a total area of 583,000 km and is a country of striking topographical and
climatic variety. The population is now estimated at 12.1 million and is
growing at a rate of about 3.3% per year. About 90% of the population lives
in rural areas and is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood. The average
annual per capita income of those living in rural areas is now estimated at
Ksh 480 (US$70), and the countrywide average at Ksh 1,060 (US$150).
2.02      The agricultural sector (Annex 1) is of great importance to the
economy, and contributed between 35% and 40% of GDP in the 1964-1971 period.
The overall rate of growth in the sector over the same period was about 4.3%
in real terms, a little above population growth. Agriculture accounts for
about 70% of total export earnings; the latter increased from Ksh 740 million
to Ksh 1,000 million in the period 1965-1971. The main export crops are coffee
and tea - which account for about 64% of all agricultural exports - sisal,
pyrethrum, dairy products, meat, cotton,wool, nuts and animal feed. Subsis-
tence cultivation accounts for over half of total agricultural production,
and the major subsistence foodcrops are maize, bananas, sorghum, millet and
pulses.
2.03      About 20% of Kenya's total land area of 58 million ha is of high
or medium cropping or livestock potential; these areas include the highlands
and the coastal belt regions. A further 10% is suitable for subsistence
dry-land farming and cattle ranching, while the rest is only suitable for
extensive production of livestock for both commercial and subsistence needs.
2.04      Rainfall varies greatly in Kenya from less than 250 mm per annum
in the Northern deserts to 1,900 mm per annum in the Western Highlands in the
vicinity of Lake Victoria. In the Rift Valley where the majority of the
large-scale mixed farms are located, there is a four month dry period from
November through February and rainfall averages around 1,100 mm with local
variations due to altitude and rain shadows. Annual variations are quite high
with partial crop failures occurring approximately every ten years. The soils
of the Rift Valley area vary from deep, well-drained dark red friable loams
to lateritic soils sometimes with impeded drainage. They are mostly phosphate
deficient and acid, and consequently the poorer soils require annual dressings
of fertilizer to maintain high crop yields.



- 3 -
B. The Farming Sector
2.05      There are an estimated 1.2 million smallholder farmers in Kenya,
the majority of which live at subsistence levels and farm on average less
than 2 ha. About 450,000 of these smallholders can be classified as pro-
gressive farmers, although the degree of production above subsistence varies
considerably. The rural areas also contain approximately 200,000 pastoralists
and another 300,000 families without direct access to land.
2.06      In addition to smallholder farming, there is also an important
large-scale commercial farm subsector. African participation in commercial
farming has increased significantly over the past decade. In 1960 Government
instituted a comprehensive land transfer program for mixed farms whereby
high potential agricultural land occupied by European owners (mainly in the
Rift Valley Province) was transferred to Kenyan ownership. There were two
main types of transfer: first, a settlement program under which large farms
were subdivided into productive smallholder plots; and second, the direct
transfer of large farms to individuals, groups (partnerships, companies or
cooperatives) and quasi-government authorities such as the Agricultural
Development Corporation. Group ownership is now the most common form of
ownership of large farms. The result was a complex pattern of land ownership
with a wide range in the size of holdings, forms of ownership and patterns of
production. It is estimated that there are now approximately 2,750 large
farms (over 20 ha), about 10% of which are still owned and farmed by expa-
triates. About 1,800 holdings are mixed farms and the remainder are coffee
and tea estates and ranches. As a result of the successful land adjudication,
transfer and settlement programs, Kenya's land holdings have a higher pro-
portion of surveyed and registered titles than is generally the case in
similar countries in Eastern Africa.
Large-Scale Mixed Farms
2.07      The organization and production of these large-scale farms vary with
the form of ownership. The majority of the farms have been purchased from
their former European owners by groups organized variously as partnerships
(the maximum number of legal members is seven) private companies (maximum
number of legal members is fifty), or informal cooperatives (often with
absentee as well as resident partners). Group ownership represented a way
in which small farmers with limited capital were able to purchase large farms
from their previous owners. Usually the group owners had barely enough money
for the purchase deposit, and consequently most of these purchases were
financed by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC). In many cases these
farms had suffered from a lack of working capital and financial difficulties
and have encouraged other people to join the farms for a cash settlement.
Since these contributions were made through original owners registered in
the title deeds, the new members have no legal status, i.e., they are un-
registered. While generally these unregistered members have commonly
accepted ownership rights, their position is tenuous and they often have
little say in management and are discriminated against in other ways.



- 4 -
2.08      Of the 1,800 mixed farms owned by Africans in high potential areas,
it is estimated that about one third are well run and have a rising output,
one-third are perhaps breaking even but have not increased their total pro-
duction since the change in ownership, and the remaining one-third are "pro-
blem farms" (para 2.09) facing severe financial and production difficulties.
A recent study of a sample of farms in the Trans Nzoia District showed that
on average the least successful group cropped only 16% of the total farm land
(or 30% of arable land). The performance of group-owned farms was generally
far below that of the individually-owned farms; the group farms had an average
of 13.4% of their farm area under crops as compared with 37.4% for the single
owner farms.
2.09      The great majority of problem farms are group-owned.  The average
farm size is around 600 ha, and the main crops are wheat and maize along with
some dairy cattle. These farms are characterized by substantial debts, lack
of working capital and by poor management (due to the inability or unwilling-
ness of the owners to pay for skilled managers) and dissension among the
owners leading to vacillation and lack of policy direction. This lack of
funds and poor management have resulted in a picture of descending production
with tractor breakdown or repossession and the sale of livestock in order to
pay debts. In order to generate additional cash, group members are often
asked to put up further sums to repay AFC purchase loans, and in some cases
new members are recruited to help make these payments. The end result of
this pattern of deterioration has been that individual members lose interest
in the large-scale activity and retreat to subsistence farming on their
individual plots and to communal grazing of their individually-owned livestock;
in these instances that part of the farm devoted to large-scale agriculture
often is almost totally neglected.
Coffee Estates
2.10      There are a total of 85,000 hectares planted to coffee in Kenya;
of these about 30,000 ha (35%) are in estates, many owned by groups or indi-
vidual African farmers,and the remainder is cultivated by about 270,000
smallholders with an average coffee area of 0.2 ha each. In the past decade
there has been an overall decrease in net planted area. This decline can be
attributed to managerial problems and a lack of credit on estates transferred
to Kenyan ownership (mainly group ownership as in the case of mixed farms)
and to the rapid spread of Coffee Berry Disease (CBD). Smallholder produc-
tion was particularly affected by CBD, as the reduced yields combined with
lower coffee prices discouraged farmers from undertaking the relatively
expensive spraying programs essential to control of the disease. Planting
was also restricted prior to September 1973 under the terms of the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement. Since then the Agreement has been extended on
a discussion basis until 1975 but the export quotas and price guidelines
are no longer in force. Government's new Development Plan calls for the
expansion of output over several years mainly by further increases in yield
levels. In view of Kenya's 2% share of the world market, any increase in
export sales would not have an appreciable effect on international coffee
sales.



2.11      Total coffee production in Kenya has risen substantially over the
last two years, mainly due to a Major improvement in yields closely linked
to the control of CBD and to price improvements. Average yields were about
900 kg/ha in this period as compared with 700 kg/ha in previous years. The
main improvement took place in the estate sector, where yields averaged about
1,300 kg/ha, about double the smallholder sector. Some of this improvement
could also be accounted for by the development of minor irrigation systems,
especially in the Thika district; rainfall in this area is only marginally
sufficient for coffee production, but the bushes are less susceptible to
CBD which requires humid conditions.
2.12      As in the case of the  mixed farms, there are a substantial number
of problem coffee estates (about 100), mainly owned by groups, which have
suffered from severe management difficulties, a lack of working capital
and dissension among owners. This has in turn led to an almost complete
reduction in inputs such as labor for weeding, fertilizer and pesticides
and as a result to drastically reduced yields; yields now are about 200 kg/ha,
or about one-seventh of average. With necessary inputs and good management,
these estates can be quickly rehabilitated and offer excellent prospects for
the immediate expansion of coffee production.
Rehabilitation Programs
2.13      Various rehabilitation programs for both problem mixed farms and
coffee estates have been instituted, and these have met with varying degrees
of success. The organizations most closely involved with these efforts have
been the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the German Agricultural Team
(GAT), 1/ and the Ministry of Agriculture. The primary focus was the institu-
tion of improved management, and a wide range of approaches were attempted.
Directed Agricultural Companies 2/ were tried, but as these involved compulsory
management without the promise of any financial assistance, they were generally
unsuccessful. Binding partnership agreements were also tried with a similar
lack of success. As a temporary measure, AFC has employed farm managers and put
them in charge of several selected problem farms. This program which includes
some financial assistance has been reasonably successful thus far.
2.14      Some useful lessons have emerged from these initial rehabilitation
efforts which will be taken into consideration by Government in thie implemen-
tation of future programs.  It first should be noted that there can be no
1/   The German Agricultural Team was a small team of extension officers
working in Trans Nzoia District since 1966; the team was recruited
under bilateral aid.
2/   Companies already established which were in financial difficulties and
which were placed under the direction and control of a Governaient
appointed officer.



- 6 -
blanket solutions and a wide range of remedies may be necessary to meet the
needs of the individual farms. Also, the full support of all members is
essential to success, and any binding agreement must be freely accepted by
all members; however, rights, authority and duties must be clearly defined
and adhered to. It is essential moreover that each member on a farm be
assured sufficient land for a house and a subsistence plot (about 1 ha on
high potential land). The key to success in such a rehabilitation program
is the employment of a qualified farm manager with sufficient power on each
participating farm. Constant attention by competent supervisory staff is also
necessary, and each such supervisory or visiting manager should be respon-
sible for a limited number of farms; support and close cooperation by all
Government agencies concerned should also be assured. Finally, it should
be noted that some farms 1/ will not be able to be rehabilitated simply by
the infusion of credit and management.  Other remedies such as direct grants,
reorganization, etc. should be considered in these cases.
C. Agricultural Credit (Annex 2)
2.15      The Kenyan banking system consists of a Central Bank, seven commer-
cial banks, the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative
Bank. The Central Bank exercises little control over agricultural lending
except by setting the prime interest rate. The Cooperative Bank is the main
financial institution servicing the cooperative system, and offers the co-
operative societies banking services designed to meet their special needs.
The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is to large-scale farming
companies and to corporations engaged in agribusiness activities, although
the major commercial banks have recently instituted several experimental
small-scale lending schemes. Total direct commercial bank lending to agri-
culture in 1973 amounted to Ksh 356 million, or approximately 11% of total
advances; interest rates vary from 9% to 11% payable on amounts outstanding.
2.16      AFC was established in 1963 to assist in the development of agri-
culture and agricultural industries, and it is now the main credit channel
for small and medium-scale farmers. At present it extends credit under three
large-scale schemes which cover land purchase and development loans under the
British Land Transfer Program, ranching loans funded by IDA, Sweden and USAID
(Credits 129-KE and 477-KE), and large farm development programs supported
by Germany. AFC is also extending credit under two smallholder development
projects supported by IDA (Credits 105-KE and 344-KE). In addition to those
schemes supported by external donors, AFC operates its own small and large-
scale lending schemes and acts as agent for the Guaranteed Minimum Return
Program (which provides seasonal credit to growers with more than 15 ha under
wheat and hybrid maize as well as insurance against crop failures). AFC
1/   This category is excluded from the Project.



financing is provided mainly by Government in the form of irredeemable or
ownership capital part of which is interest-bearing, (originally belonging
to its predecessor corporation, the Land and Agricultural Bank); the remainder
is interest-free grants, and redeemable or long-term debt capital. Interest-
bearing capital is lent by Government at interest rates ranging from 1% to
6% oer annum. For fiscal year 1973, the blend of interest payable averaged
3.5% on total resources including interest free grants. Since 1969 AFC has
made loans totalling US$12.6 million, and has charged interest of 7.5% on
land purchase loans and 8% on all others. AFC's standard rate for new loans
was recently increased to 9%. Interest receivable in fiscal year 1973 averaged
about 7% on the total portfolio, giving AFC a spread of 3.5%'. This margin has
generally proved insufficient to cover AFC's operating expenses, and the Cor-
poration has operated at a loss since 1969; however, the unaudited figures
for fiscal 1974 indicate a small profit of Ksh 3 million (US$0.4 million).
This profit is based on a change in method of calculating provision for doubt-
ful debts; without this chanige there would be a loss of about Ksh 2 million
(US$0.3 million).  It is expected that the recent increase in AFC's lending
rate in addition to an expected improvement in the arrears situation will
bring about a significant improvement in AFC's operating results. Overall
AFC's level of efficiency is considered satisfactory.
2.17      East African Acceptances (EtA), Ltd, a financial institution owned
by-Standard Bank, Barclays Bank, Latham and Brooke Bond Liebig commenced oper-
ations in Kenya in 1969. The main shareholders accumulated a substantial
amount of liquid funds in Kenya, and in order to provide an outlet for these
funds, EAA set up a Management Division which provides working capital at
commercial interest rates (currently about 10%) along with management expertise
to coffee estates. This program has proved to be very successful; EAA by
mid-1975 was managing 1,750 ha under coffee and plans to expand its activities
in this field.
D. Agricultural Services ( Annex 3)
2.18      The Ministry of Agriculture has major responsibility for the pro-
vision of agricultural services. Wqithin the Mfinistry, the Land and Farm
Management Division of the Agricultural Department provides farm management
advice to the mixed farming sector, and also has responsibility for soil
conservation and tractor hire services. There are generally a sufficient
number of professional and technical staff available within this Division,
but these lack experience in practical large-scale farming, and also suffer
as a result of the frequent shifting of staff from one appointment or district
to another. The Department of Veterinary Services has been actively involved
in attempts to control the important diseases limiting cattle movement and
production, as well as in various aspects of veterinary research and vaccine
production.



- 8 -
2.19      The Mlinistry's Training Division serves as a liaison with the
Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Nairobi and the diplomate level
college at Egerton which produces diplomate graduates specializing in farm
management. It also administers certificate level training at Embu and
Bukura as well as farm manager training at Thompsons Falls and Eldoret
Training Institutes. The latter two centers give a one-year course for
training managers for farms and cooperatives. The Thompsons Falls Institute
is lodged in temporary quarters which are now drastically in need of reno-
vation. Substantial investment would be required in order to bring these
facilities up to an acceptable standard, and Government has made an allocation
in the 1975 estimates for these improvements. All trainees suffer to some
extent from a lack of actual management experience; this is usually obtained
by having them serve as assistant managers or trainees on commercial farms
before assuming managerial responsibility elsewhere. The trainees have, how-
ever, experienced some difficulty in finding suitable jobs due largely to the
inability of the new owners of the large farms to pay adequate salaries.
2.20      Government, acting through the Ministry of Agriculture, sets farm-
gate prices for the major agricultural commodities including maize, wheat,
coffee and milk. These prices are published annually, and it is important
to the farmer that this be done sufficiently in advance of the planting
season to allow him to determine his optimum cropping pattern. If prices are
not published in a timely fashion, farmers tend to delay purchases of inputs
and seed as well as planting with consequent reductions in both yields and
acreage. The price of fertilizer is negotiated by Government with the major
importing companies and is then published by the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.21      Farm products are marketed through commercial boards, national and
local cooperatives and private traders. Several of the statutory boards have
been given monopoly powers. Both the Wheat Board and the Maize and Produce
Board have complete control over the movement of these grains from one dis-
trict to another. The Coffee Board not only serves as the sole marketing
agent but also provides farmers with inputs, credit and technical advice.
The Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC) is the main marketing agent for milk
and dairy products, and has a near monopoly on the sale of fluid milk in the
major cities.
2.22      The farming areas are also served by District Agricultural Com-
mittees. These are chaired by the District Commissioner with members from
the government technical staff and the local farming community.   The com-
mittees provide, among other things, loan advice to AFC and administrative
help with regard to land transfers (via local Land Boards), subdivision
requests and problem farms.



-9-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would over a five-year period aid in the redevelopment
of about 90 group-owned farms and 36 group coffee estates which were trans-
ferred to Kenyan ownership during the land transfer program and which are
now in need of credit and improved management services. Specifically, the
Project would:
(a) provide short, medium and long-term loans to 90 group large-
scale mixed farms in Rift Valley Province, and 36 coffee
estates in Central Province for on-farm investments in machinery
and infrastructure and for working capital;
(b) provide technical and management services to all participating
farms;
(c) create a large-scale farm management section within AFC to
implement the rehabilitation program;
(d) establish four units within the Land and Farm Management
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture to help identify
Project farms, assist in Project Implementation and administer
a training program for farm managers; and
(e) provide for a study of the large-farm sector within Kenya,
Project evaluation and future project preparation.
Overall direction of the Project would be carried out by a Project Steering
Committee (para 4.01), while the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
would have specific responsibility for Project implementation. Credit for
all participating farms would be ch.ianelled through AFC except for any funds
provided by EAA or other coffee management companies for some of the coffee
estates.
B. Project Phasing and Development
3.02      The Project would be concentrated in three districts within the
Rift Valley Provin'e - Nakuru, Uasin Gishu (Eldoret) and Trans Nzoia (Kitale),
as well as in Thika and Kiambu Districts within the Central Province (Map).
Two types of farms would be included in the Project: mixed farms (producing
wheat and maize along with livestock) in Rift Valley Province and coffee
estates in Central Province. The participation of these farms would be
phased over a four-year period in order to allow for the gradual build-up
of Project services. The expected rate of participation is detailed below.



- 10 -
Uasin Gishu    Nakuru    Trans Nzoia  Total Mixed    Coffee   Cumulative
Year   District      District    District         Farms        Estates      Total
1        7             4            3            14            9           26
2       10             6            6            22             9          34
3       15             7            7            29             9          42
4       13             6            6            25            9           38
Totals    45             23           22            90           36          126
3.03      Each of the farms included in the Project would require its own
financial projections, farm policies and plans. However, farm models for
both the mixed farms and the coffee estates have been drawn up to represent
the typical farm or estate expected to be rehabilitated under the Project;
each farm would differ somewhat from these models. All farms selected would
be group-owned problem farms, with an existing or proposed organizational
structure which ensured that all owners had legal rights, and that effective
decisions could be made by the farm. As partnerships require all partners to
fully concur with any decision for it to be legal they are particularly subject
to difficulties in management. Assurances were obtained that all project farms
would be either companies or cooperatives (where majority vote decides) and
that all members would be legally registered. Only farms which could be
expected to become financially viable under the project would be selected and
for the mixed farms, the land/owner ratio would be such that each resident
owner had a subsistence plot and should receive an income of not less than
Ksh 400 per annum at maturity (year 11). The farms and estates are currently
faced with an acute shortage of the working capital needed to meet operating
costs and to make repayments on existing land purchase and redevelopment loans,
as well as a need for development items such as machinery, livestock, etc. It
will take several years to restore farms and estates to a profitable status,
and in the interim they will need assistance with restructuring of existing
debts. AFC has agreed to refinance the existing loans, including arrears, to
allow repayment over an extended period. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that, where necessary, loans for individual farms would be refinanced
over periods up to 30 years. In addition to financial assistance virtually
all farms require greatly improved management, and consequently it was necessary
that the Project include provision for an adequately trained manager on each
farm. A general outline of two farm types is given below, and additional details
are available in Annex 4.
3.04      Mixed Farms.  The mixed farm model represents a 600 ha problem farm
(para 2.09) suitable for rehabilitation by the infusion of capital and manage-
ment services. It is expected that with the improved inputs, infrastructure
and management provided under the Project, the farm would produce grain from
about 140 ha wheat and 40 ha maize along with production of milk from dairy
cattle. The land in the Rift Valley where the mixed farms would be located
is normally cropped on about a four-year crop to three-year grass rotation to
maintain fertility.



- 11 -
3.05      The Land and Farm Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
would identify possible Project farms and submit recommendations along with
a preliminary management plan prepared in consultation with the group owners
to District Rehabilitation Committees; the latter would in turn make recommen-
dations to the Large Farm Management Section within AFC. AFC would review
these recommendations and, if acceptable, would as necessary modify the indi-
vidual farm development plans, cash flows and loan refinancing schedules (para
3.03). AFC would then prepare a five-year loan agreement for each farm in
consultation with group owners whereby the group owners would agree to carry
out an agreed development program and to employ a manager, acceptable to AFC
on terms and conditions acceptable to AFC. The manager would be guided and
supervised by AFC's Large Farm Management Section. The signing of such an
agreement by the owners would be a prerequisite for participation in the
Project.
3.06      Once the loan agreement had been signed, a resident manager would
be appointed and a series of meetings would be held with the owners to ensure
their understanding of and cooperation in the program. At this time, the
purchase of inputs and equipment would also begin. During the five-year
period of the loan agreement, members would receive wages at current rates
on a per day basis for each day worked on large-scale activities as well as
a modest cash bonus estimated at Ksh 20 to Ksh 100 per annum. The group
owners would have an increasing participation in management decisions and at
the end of the Project period would assume full responsibility for farm
management. It is expected that they would retain the resident farm manager
and continue the improved management policies introduced under the Project.
3.07      Coffee Estates.  The model group owned coffee estate represents a
presently run-down coffee estate of 50 ha coffee and 65 ha of grassland and
owners plots. Yields of coffee on these estates are presently about 200 kg
parchment per ha. On the basis of experience with estates which are now being
rehabilitated under similar programs, it has been estNimated that as a result
of improvements under the Project yields would increase over three years to
about 2,000 kg parchment per ha. These greatly increased yields and the
higher profitability of coffee estates as compared to mixed farms would
enable coffee estates to pay for better qualified individual estate managers
out of income and would also enable payment of a higher cash bonus to owners
than would be the case for the mixed farms. A relatively high working capital
component (both in amount and as a percentage of total finance) would be
required for the coffee estates due to the high level of inputs such as
fertilizers and sprays.
3.08      The coffee estates that are likely to be suitable for rehabilitation
under the Project would be initially selected by a District Rehabilitation
Committee and AFC. The owners would then negotiate a management agreement
satisfactory to AFC with a management company under which all financial,
managerial and estate policy decisions would be made by the management com-
pany after consultation with the owners and with AFC. It is expected that
EAA and other companies would take over management of about 27 of the 36
estates; they would provide overall management services, including resident



- 12 -
managers, and possibly working capital. They would also provide various
servicing functions whereby tractors, equipment and irrigation units would
be repaired or replaced and inputs of fertilizer and chemicals provided.
They would charge their normal management fee (presently for EAA Ksh 1,000/ha
of coffee), a crop marketing fee (normally 1.5% of the gross value of the
crop), and would charge commercial interest rates, presently about 10%, on
any working capital advances. As the management companies were not able to
give an assurance to provide working capital, Government has undertaken to
provide all the incremental working capital (estimated at about US$4.5
million) for these 27 estates but anticipates that at least some of these
funds would be provided by the management companies. Provision has been
made under the loan/credit for AFC to provide the incremental working capital
for the other 9 estates subject to the signing of an acceptable management
agreement between each estate and a management company or individual satis-
factory to AFC.
C. Detailed Features
On-Farm Investments
3.09      Under the Project three types of credit would be provided to facili-
tate on-farm investments for all participating farms. First, long-term credit
would be provided for the purchase of fencing, dairy reconstruction, piping,
storage tanks, equipment and livestock etc., as well as for coffee factories
and other buildings and irrigation on the coffee estates; these loans would
be repayable in equal installments of interest and principal over 15 years
at 9% p.a. (AFC's standard interest rate) with a two-year grace period in the
case of mixed farms. Second, medium-term credit repayable in equal install-
ments of interest and principal over seven years at 9% p.a. with a two year
grace period would be provided for the purchase of tractors, cultivation
equipment, machinery, vehicles and minor irrigation equipment (Annex 4, Tables
2 and 10). Third, working capital would be provided by AFC and by Government
(for coffee estates working capital) or by EAA and other management companies
at commercial rates (presently about 10% p.a.) for the purchase of farm in-
puts, insecticides, herbicides, fertilizer, seeds and labor costs.
AFC Large Farm Management Section
3.10      Under the Project a management section would be established within
AFC under the direction of the Project Manager (para 4.03). Staff to be
recruited would include a Deputy Project Manager, an accountant, four inter-
nationally recruited Senior Farm Managers, two local trainee managers and
support staff.
3.11      Training.  Funds for a resident farm manager training program would
be provided by Government with the Land and Farm Management Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture having overall responsibility for coordination of
the training program. Prospective managers would be mainly recruited from
graduates of the Eldoret and Thompson Falls Farm Managers Training Institutes



- 13 -
(para 2.19). In order to ensure an adequate number of recruits for the
program, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Thompson Falls
Training Institute would be renovated to an acceptable standard. As part of
the training program, the proposed resident managers would be placed as
Assistant Trainee Managers on suitable commercial mixed farms for one year
in order to give them some practical experience. They would also be enrolled
in short courses in management techniques, bookkeeping, labor management, etc.
at Egerton Agricultural College as and when suitable short courses could be
made available by the college. It is considered that there are sufficient
suitable managers available for training.
Ministry of Agriculture - Land and Farm Management Division
3.12      Four small teams for the different areas would be established within
the Ministry of Agriculture's Land and Farm Management Division to assist in
the selection of the mixed farms to be included in the Project. The activities
of these teams would be coordinated by a Project Coordinator within the Ministry.
A Regional Land and Farm Management Officer (Rehabilitation) would help oversee
the activities of the teams and would organize the resident farm managers train-
ing program (para. 3.11).
Large Farm Sector Study
3.13      The Project would involve only 126 out of some 700 problem farms
within the large farm sub-sector. By necessity, those farms which present
the most difficult problems would not be included, i.e., those which by
reason of the large number of owners or extensive unofficial subdivision
would be almost impossible to rehabilitate solely by provision of credit
and management assistance. The Project would provide for a study, by con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Association, to review the large-scale farm
sub-sector and to investigate possible solutions to the difficulties presented
by problem farms. The study, which would commence by January 1, 1976, would
recommend policies for relited problems within the large-scale farming sector;
areas of investigation would include farm ownership systems, the legal status
of individual group owners, and the ratio of owners to farm size. Finally,
the study would evaluate the early progress of the Project with the aim of
formulating a possible second-stage project covering an additional 350 farms.
Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 4.
Environmental Effects
3.14      The Projeet would have no appreciable effect on the ecology of the
Project area as the rehabilitation effort would be carried out on already
existing farms. The crop rotations to be introduced would help conserve the
agricultural potential of the soil and the amounts of pesticides and other
chemicals employed would be modest. Project coffee production would be
processed in factories already in existence.



D. Project Costs (Annex 5)
3.15      Total Project cost is estimated at Ksh 166 million (US$23.2 million),
of which Ksh 69 million (US$10.1 million) or 44% represents foreign exchange
requirements. The estimated costs are summarized below:
Foreign
-------Ksh'O0O--------   -------US$'000------- Exchang(
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign              %
A. On Farm Investments
1.  Mixed Farms
Machinery and Equipment  2,200   16,115  18,315        308    2,258  2,566    88
Buildings                   685       170     855       96       24    120    20
Fencing, piping and
land clearing             734    1,146   1,980       116      161    277    58
Livestock                14,040       -    14,040   1,966        -    1,966     -
Incremental working
capital                 6,622    6,622  13,244       928      927  1,855    50
Sub-total              24,381   24,053  48,434   3,414    3,370  6,784    50
2. Coffee Estates
Machinery and Equipment  2,240    7,500   9,740        314    1,050  1,364    77
Buildings                 2,280    1,340   3,620       319      188    507    37
Incremental working
capital                20,442    7,874  28,316   2,863    1,103  3,966    28
Sub-total              24,962   16,714  41,676   3,496    2,341  5,837    40
Total (A)              49,343   40,767  90,110   6,910    5,711 12,621    45
B. Project Administration &
Technical Services
1. A.F.C.
Headquarters              5,241    3,119   8,360       734       437  1,171    37
2.  Ministry of Agriculture  1,671        139   1,810      234        20    254      8
Resident Managers
Training                1,165       -     1,165      160       -      160     -
3. Large Farm Sector
Study and Project
Evaluation                126       515     641       18       72      90    80
Total (B)               8,203    3,773  11,976  1L146         529  1,675    31
Total Base Cost (A+B) 57,546   44,540 102,o86   8,056    6,240 14,296    44
Physical contingency          5,760    4,450  10,210       806       624  1,430    44
Sub-total              63,306   48,990 112,296   8,862    6,864 15,726    44
Price contingency            30,124   23,370  53,494   4,223    3,271  7,494 ~4
Total Project Cost           93,430   72,360 165,790  13,085   10,135 23,220    44



- 15 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing at the time of appraisal plus
estimated price escalation to the beginning of 1975. In addition, a physical
contingency of 10% and a price contingency of 12% per annum have been added
to all Project costs. Price contingencies are based on the estimated level
of price itcreases for Project items in Kenya. Taxes and duties on Project
items are negligible and have been included.
E. Financing (Annex 6)
3.16      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ Million    %_
Bank                                          7.5
IDA                                           7.5        65
Government                                    3.7        16
Government, EAA or other Coffee
Management Companies                        4.5        19
Total                                   23.2       100
The proposed Bank loan of US$7.5 million would be for 25 years including 5
years of grace while the proposed IDA credit of US$7.5 million would be on
standard terms to Government. This would cover the equivalent of the foreign
exchange component (US$10.1 million) and about 37% of local costs or about
65% of total Project costs. Bank and IDA funds together with Government's
contribution for on-farm investments and the costs of AFC's Project Head-
quarters would be onlent to AFC at 3% per annum for a' term of 30 years includ-
ing a three-year grace period on capital repayments, which should allow AFC
sufficient time to strengthen its financial structure (para 2.16). The
interest rate is the same as that for recent Government onlending to AFC and
reflects the high management costs (about 3% p.a.) to be incurred by AFC in
providing additional services that Government is not as well equipped to
provide. This onlending rate to AFC would cover interest payments by Govern-
ment to Bank/IDA in relation to funds onlent to AFC. AFC would in turn onlend
these funds to farms at its recent increased standard rate of 9% per annum
(slightly below commercial rates in Kenya). Assurances as to these arrange-
ments were obtained at negotiations. Bank/IDA and Government funds in the
ratio of 4:1 would finance all on-farm investments financed with medium- and
long-term credit, all the incremental working capital for the mixed farms and
for 9 of the 36 coffee estates. Amounts required to cover the costs of Project
administration and technical services including the large farm sector study
would be charged in the same ratio, while the large farm sector study would be
financed 90% by Bank/IDA. The working capital requirements (about US$4.5
million) for 27 of the 36 estates would be the responsibility of Government
although it anticipates that the management companies would provide at least
part of these funds at commercial interest rates.



- 16 -
F. Procurement
3.17      The items to be financed would be required at scattered locations
and at varying times throughout the Project period, and would not be suitable
for bulking of orders for procurement by means of international competitive
bidding. Procurement would therefore be through normal commercial channels.
There is adequate competition, both international and national, in offering
goods and construction contracts through the normal channels available to all
consumers in the country. Several producers of farm machinery and fertilizers
are represented in Kenya; sales and after-sales service are adequate, supplies
satisfactory and prices competitive.
G. Disbursement (Annex 7)
3.18      Funds from the Credit/Loan account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 80% of medium- and long-term sub-loans made by AFC under the
Project;
(b) 80% of incremental working capital advanced by AFC for Project
farms and for about nine coffee estates;
(c) 80% of expenditure for AFC's Project headquarters;
(d) 80% of expenditures for training resident farm managers;
(e) 80% of expenditures for Project staff within the
Ministry of Agriculture; and
(f) 90% total costs for the large farm sector study and Project
evaluation.
Disbursements against (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) would be made against
certificates of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the borrower and made available
for inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision missions.
Any funds remaining in the Credit account upon completion of the Project
would be used at the Association's direction for the continuing developmentt
of mixed farms and coffee estates.



- 17 -
H. Accounts and Audit
3.19      Due to problems with accounting machines, AFC has for several years
been experiencing delays in the preparation of accounts and production of
timely statements for billing purposes. With the installation of a new com-
puter, it is expected that all accounts will be on the computer by the end
of 1974. The small-scale loans have already been prograimmed, and after a few
initial problems, it is now possible to obtain an up-to-date aging schedule
of arrears on small-scale loans. AFC's preparation of loan statements and
the regular monthly billing system which will thus come into effect are
expected to result in up-to-date accounts and statements for effective manage-
ment information. The accounts are presently audited by the Nairobi Office
of Messrs. Coopers and Lybrand. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that AFC would continue to employ independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and that the audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would
be sent to IDA within four months of the end of AFC's fiscal year. AFC has
had some difficulty in complying with this requirement under previous pro-
jects, and there have been in many cases substantial delays in the presenta-
tion of accounts. Once the new system is fully operational the situation is
expected to be greatly improved, however, and AFC should be fully capable of
administering the Project under the required procedures.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Overall direction of the Project would be exercised by a steering
committee consisting of the Head of the Land and Farm Management Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), a representative of the Ministry
of Finance, the General Manager of the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC),
the Project Manager (AFC) and the Project Coordinator (Ministry of Agricul-
ture); AFC would, however, have specific responsibility for Project implemen-
tation (Chart). The Ministry of Agriculture would aid in the preliminary
selection of the mixed farms to be included under the Project, and would
provide training and agricultural extension services to these farms. Initial
selection of the coffee estates would be made jointly by AFC and District
Rehabilitation Committees. East African Acceptances (EAA) or other manage-
ment companies or individuals would provide management services to the coffee
estates.
Mixed Farms
4.02      The Land and Farm Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
would establish four small teams for different areas along with supporting
staff in Rift Valley Province under the overall direction of a Project Coor-
dinating Officer assisted by a Regional Land and Farm Management Officer
(Rehabilitation). Each team would be headed by an experienced Agricultural
Officer aided by an Assistant Agricultural Officer and an agricultural assistant.
The teams would review prospective borrowers, and would, in conjunction with
the group owners, prepare initial farm plans, development proposals and budgets.



- 18 -
These findings would be reported to District Rehabilitation Committees to be
established and which would consist of the District Commissioner (Chairman),
AFC's Branch Manager, District Agricultural Officer, District Land and Farm
Management Officer, District Cooperative Officer and two members selected
for their knowledge of the District. They would make a preliminary selection
of the farms to be included and then forward their recommendations to AFC.
The District Rehabilitation Committees would also be responsible for ensuring
that all members of each Project farm were legally registered (para 3.03).
4.03      AFC proposes to establish a Large Farm Management Section with over-
all responsibility for Project implementation and management. The section
would be headed by the Project Manager and additional staff would include a
Deputy Project Manager, four senior experienced large farm Visiting Managers,
two trainee managers, an accountant, a systems consultant and support staff.
Project staff are detailed in Annex 5, Table 2. The success of the Project
would be largely dependent on the Management Section senior staff who would
need extensive experience with large scale farming; the Project Manager and
four senior visiting managers would therefore be internationally recruited
(suitable personnel may already be residing in Kenya). The appointment of
a Project Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would
be a condition of the Loan/Credit effectiveness. The Management Section -
with advice from AFC loan officers - would make the final selection of Project
farms. It would also be responsible for the approval and supervision of
individual farm managers, and for ensuring that the development plan (as
amended by AFC) for each farm is implemented and the necessary farm records
and budgets prepared. Although AFC would have direct responsibility for the
rehabilitation program, the Ministry of Agriculture would provide general
extension services to the large farms. The existing services in this area
are generally satisfactory, particularly in the fields of animal health and
plant breeding.
4.04      Following the final selection of a farm by AFC, a loan agreement
would be finalized with the group owners and signed between AFC and each farm;
the group owners would agree to implement an approved development plan subject
to any modifications approved by AFC, to establish a Farm Committee (comprising
AFC, a Land and Farm Management Officer of the Ministry of Agriculture and two
representatives of the owners) which would be responsible for farm decisions,
to employ for 5 years a manager satisfactory to and on terms approved by AFC;
such manager to be guided and supervised by senior Visiting Managers within
the Large Farm Management Section of AFC. Individual farm owners would, in
most cases, be employed on their farm at current wage rates; they would also
be given exclusive use of a subsistence plot of about 1 ha and would receive
variable cash payments in each year (para 3.06). The owners would be kept well
informed on progress of the farm, would be consulted on all major decisions
and play an increasing role in the management of the farm over the five year
period. Visiting as well as the farm managers would train group owners so
that at the end of that time take over full responsibility for their farms.
Successful rehabilitation of the farms and training of the farm owners will
be the major factors in ensuring future good management.



- 19 -
4.05      Training.  In view of the importance of the individual farm managers
to the success of each farm, it is vital that they have adequate experience
and training. Under the Project, it is expected that the first 20 farm managers
would be recruited and placed directly on farms; there are an adequate number
of trained farm managers presently available for this purpose. Subsequently,
farm managers would be recruited about a year ahead of their utilization (para
3.11) and would be placed for a year on a successful large-scale farm for
training. These farms would be mainly outside the Project, but eventually
training would also be carried out on some Project farms. During this first
year, the trainee farm managers would receive a lower salary, and a small
training fee would be paid to the farm manager who supervised their work.
The selection of farm managers and the arrangements for training would be the
responsibility of the Regional Land and Farm Management Officer based at Nakuru
(para 3.12), acting in consultation with AFC. AFC would have the right to
reject any farm manager whom they considered unsatisfactory. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would agree to establish and maintain
this farm manager training program.
Coffee Estates
4.06      Coffee estates to be rehabilitated under the Project would be
selected in a similar manner as the mixed farms, with District Rehabilitation
Committees making preliminary recommendations to AFC. Under agreements to be
negotiated with Government prior to credit effectiveness, EAA or other coffee
management companies, acceptable to IDA, would agree to provide management,
accounting and other special services to about 27 of the 36 coffee estates.
The owners of each individual estate would in conjunction with the management
company and AFC agree to a development plan. AFC would provide the medium-
and long-term development credit requirements for each estate and would give
final approval of the development plan. The working capital requirements
would be provided either by Government or the management company (para 3.16),
Once this development had been approved each estate wo"uld sign a five-year
management agreement with a management company which would also be submitted
for AFC approval. Draft general agreements would be reviewed by IDA. AFC
would provide short-term working capital for the remaining nine estates in
addition to the long- and medium-term credit requirements. Management of
these estates would, however, be delegated to designated management companies
or to visiting agents, a number of which are already operating within the
coffee industry. Management staff for the coffee estates have been included
in the annual operating costs of each estate, as these estates would be oper-
ated as strictly commercial enterprises. Signing of an agreement, acceptable
to IDA, between Government and one or more management companies would be a
condition of effectiveness.



- 20 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Increased production as a result of the Project would be attribut-
able both to more than doubling of crop area of the mixed farms, and an
increase in crop yields due to expanded use of fertilizer, insecticides and
improved farm management techniques. The average yields on unimproved farm
as well as yields expected to be achieved under the Project are given below;
allowance has been made in the calculation of average yields for the occasional
partial crop failure due to rainfall variations.
Wheat           Maize             Milk           Coffee
(bag/ha) /1    (bag/ha) /1       (kg/annum) /2   (kg/ha) /3
Before Development            15              23                 750             200
At Full Development           20              37               1,500           2,000
/1   1 bag = 90 kg of wheat or shelled maize.
/2   Per cow per annum.
/3   Clean parchment arabica coffee.
The estimated maize, wheat and coffee yields assume timely and proper culti-
vation,- improved seed, mechanization and proper fertilization; any delay in
planting or in provision of inputs would consequently have an adverse effect
on these yields. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government,
which sets prices for imported fertilizers and bags, would negotiate these
prices with import suppliers sufficiently in advance of the planting season
so as to ensure the timely supply of these inputs. While coffee yields are
presently very low, experience with similar estates has shown that yields
can be rapidly increased to normal yields of 2,000-3,000 kg/ha on well-run
estates. Milk yields are based on performance in commercial herds grazing
established leys supplemented with fodder and a modest level of concentrate
feeding. Herd performance in breeding intervals, calf rearing, and mortality
are similarly based on commercial herd experience in the mixed farming areas.
5.02      At full development the annual incremental marketed production from
the 90 mixed farms and 36 coffee estates would be 16,500 tons of wheat, 7,500
tons of maize, 3,300 tons of coffee and 17,500 tons of milk. The total gross
value of this production would be Ksh 72.9 (US$10.1 million); the majority of
this increased value would be attributable to coffee (Ksh 32.0 million), milk
and surplus livestock (Ksh 16.9 million), wheat (Ksh 19.7 million) and maize
(Ksh 4.3 million). In addition livestock numbers would increase from 145,000
head of mainly unproductive mixed cattle to 200,000 head of dairy cattle.
5.03      Production and marketing of main Project crops are controlled by
statutory boards, which also set producer and consumer prices and regulate
the level of exports and imports. In order to allow farmers sufficient



- 21 -
opportunity to determine which crops they wish to plant, assurances were
received from Government that the prices of major farm crops would be pub-
lished by the end of December each year for the following year's cropping
season and these prices would be reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary
to reflect rising input costs and changes in international prices. Such a
system would help maintain a level of agricultural profitability that would
ensure the continued cultivation of these crops.
Markets and Prices (Annex 8)
5.04      Wheat.  Production of wheat in Kenya has declined sharply over the
past five years as a result of reductions in the area under cultivation; the
net planted area declined from 172,000 ha in 1968 to 87,000 ha in 1973, and
is expected to be only about 74,000 ha in 1974. Domestic consumption sig-
nificantly expanded over this same period, however, and consequently large
quantities of wheat had to be imported. These imports totalled about 77,000
tons in 1973, at a total foreign exchange cost of about Ksh 72 million
(US$10 million). Before 1973, Kenya wheat prices generally approximated
import parity levels. Since then, however, international wheat prices
have increased substantially and the 1974 average price is expected to reach
about Ksh 135 per 90 kg bag. 1/ For Kenya this would mean a price of about
Ksh 150/bag, delivered Nairobi. The 1973 producer price was Ksh 70/bag
(recently increased to Ksh 100/-) and with the expected yields, Kenya wheat
should compete favorably with wheat from major exporting countries. Recent
forecasts indicate that international prices of wheat, 1/ expressed in 1974
constant terms, will decline steadily to reach Ksh 77 per bag by 1980.
5.05      Maize.  Maize is Kenya's staple food and the country's most impor-
tant crop in terms of both total planted area and total production. Marketed
maize production (about 30% of total output) increased from 373,000 tons in
1972 to 450,000 tons in 1973. This 1973 record crop was due mainly to ex-
ceptionally favorable weather and to the increasing use of improved maize and
hybrid varieties. As a result of dry weather conditions, higher fertilizer
prices and delays in farmer credits, total marketed production is expected
to decline by about 36% in 1974 to a level of about 288,000 tons. In view
of the relatively large stocks on hand, however, there should be sufficient
maize to meet projected domestic consumption in 1974. The current Development
Plan places a major emphasis on increasing total maize production in order to
satisfy a domestic demand for marketed maize which is expected to increase
by about 4% per annum; these increases can be achieved most easily on large
farms such as those to be rehabilitated under the Project. The 1973 farmgate
price for maize in Kenya of Ksh 40 per 90 kg bag was recently increased to
Ksh 60. The 1973 Maize Board in store price was about Ksh 44/bag. The
international price of maize 2/ is expected to average about Ksh 77/bag in
1974 and then decline in real terms to Ksh 58/bag (in constant 1974 prices)
1/   Canadian Western Red Spring 14%, in store Thunder Bay.
2/   U.S. No. 2 yellow, f.o.b. Gulf Ports.



- 22 -
by 1980. In view of the current maize production costs and the relatively
high transport costs, prospects for Kenya maize exports, except to adjoining
countries, are limited.
5.06      Milk.  Total annual marketed milk production has grown at a rate of
8% per annum over the past four years to a level of 290 million kg in 1973.
The Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC) is the main marketing agent for milk
and dairy products, and has a near monopoly on the sale of fluid milk in
major cities. Producer and consumer prices are controlled by Government,
and the producer price for fluid milk recently increased from Ksh 0.745/liter
to 0.800 liter. Milk production in Kenya already exceeds domestic requirements,
but demand from neighboring countries such as Tanzania and Uganda is expected
to continue to expand, thus ensuring an adequate market for Kenyan production.
In 1973, Kenya exported fresh milk to Tanzania and Uganda at an average price
of about Ksh 1.0 per liter (on rail Nairobi).  In spite of an increase in
consumer prices for milk and dairy products in 1971, KCC's operating margin
has been narrow, and the company has operated at a loss for the past two years.
KCC's financial position is therefore difficult, and Government is currently
reviewing consumer prices for milk and dairy products.
5.07      Coffee.  The Kenya Producerst Cooperative Union (KPCU) is respon-
sible for the collection, milling and classification of coffee as well as
for delivery of the clean product to warehouses maintained by the Kenya
Coffee Board. KPCU handles about 95% of the coffee produced within the
country, with the balance going to small private mills. The volume of sales
by the Coffee Board in 1972/73 totalled 72,600 tons, a 20% increase over the
preceding two years. It is expected that the international price of coffee
(Guatemalan spot New York) will average Ksh 11.3/kg in 1974. The average
producer price in Kenya (f.o.b. Mombasa) was Ksh 9.2/kg in 1972/73, and a
price of Ksh 10.8/kg is expected for the 1973/74 season. World coffee prices
(expressed in 1974 constant terms) are expected to peak in 1976 at Ksh 12.6/kg,
and to decline gradually thereafter to Ksh 10.2/kg by 1979. Producer prices
in Kenya are expected to follow a similar trend.
Benefit to Farmers
5.08      The Project would provide for a substantial increase in the net
incomes of group owners on 90 mixed farms and 36 coffee estates, thus directly
benefitting about 12,600 farm families. It is estimated (Annex 4, Table 12)
that over twenty years the financial return on incremental investments under
the average Project mixed farm and coffee estate would be 24% and 30%, respec-
tively.   The returns, particularly for the coffee estate, are relatively
high. This is mainly due to the significant amount of sunk costs, e.g.,
clearing, fencing, buildings, already committed and comparatively modest
development expenditures are required. The main emphasis would be on re-
storing and improving production on previously existing operations. The
returns would thus be both quickly achieved and substantial.   Under the
Project farmers would receive, in addition to subsistence valued at Ksh 500,
an estimated cash income of Ksh 600 by year 10 on the mixed farms and Ksh
3,000 on the coffee estates.



- 23 -
Government Cash Flow
5.09      A Government cash flow related to the Project is at Annex 9.
Government revenues arise principally from interest on Government's contri-
bution to AFC and taxes on coffee estates (beginning in year 7). Government
outflows over the same period would comprise funds to AFC for on-farm invest-
ments as well as expenditures for Project administration and technical services.
Net Government outflows over the Project period would be recovered by year 10.
Over the twenty year Project period the cumulative net surplus to Government
is estimated at US$10.0 million. The estimated cash flow has been based on
coffee management companies providing working capital for 27 of the coffee
estates (para 3.11). Should Government have to provide these funds it would
need to contribute an estimated US$4.5 million. These additional funds
would, however, be fully repaid by year 10 and Government would receive a
satisfactory interest rate.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would rehabilitate 90 mixed farms and 36 coffee estates
within the large farm sector, thus safeguarding'the investments'of a large
number of group owners. Such a program would, through the infusion of addi-
tional capital and management expertise, ensure the economic viability of
these operations and would result in a substantial increase in marketed
agricultural production. The group owners would obtain security of ownership
on both their individual subsistence plots and on that part of the farm devoted
to large scale commercial cultivation, and ownership of land is particularly
important to the traditionally minded rural population of Kenya. The mainten-
ance of these commercial farming activities would also guarantee the owners
an increasing cash income. Additional benefits to be derived would be the
strengthening of AFC, and the valuable management experience which could be
applied to the rehabilitation of other large problem farms within Kenya.
6.02      The major quantifiable benefits stemming from the Project would be
a substantial increase in marketed agricultural production of wheat, maize,
milk, and coffee; this would make a major contribution toward self-sufficiency
in food production and would also provide substantial export revenues. At
full development (year 6), the annual gross incremental marketed production
resulting from the Project would be 16,500 tons of wheat, 7,500 tons of maize,
3,300 tons of coffee, and 17,500 tons of milk; together these would have a
gross farmgate value of Ksh 73 million (US$10.1 million). These increases
would represent a 5% increase in Kenya's present total production of both
wheat and coffee, and increases of 2% and 7% respectively for maize and milk.
6.03      This incremental production would result in substantial net foreign
exchange earnings and savings estimated at US$5.2 million per annum. The
majority of these would be derived from exports of coffee which would be
valued at US$4.5 million gross annually. Incremental wheat production valued



- 24 -
at US$2.8 million would be used to help offset wheat imports (in 1973 about
US$10 million), and would result in net foreign exchange savings of US$2.0
million per annum. At full development, revenues from incremental milk pro-
duction produced by the Project would reach about Ksh 15.7 million (US$2.2
million). Maize produced under the Project would alleviate constraints on
the availability of sufficient foodcrops on the domestic market. Maize is
the staple foodcrop within Kenya, and the incremental production would help
contain the shift to more expensive foodcrops such as wheat made necessary
by recent shortages.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 10)
6.04      A significant feature of the Project is the relatively low level of
investments needed to obtain the indicated benefits. Large amounts of sunk
investments have already been made on the farms to be rehabilitated, and
these investments cannot be capitalized upon due to the severe shortage of
working capital and management expertise. The low incremental costs are
reflected in the high rates of return obtained in the various components of
the Project. The overall economic rate of return over twenty years is
estimated at 42%. The individual rates of return for the coffee estates and
the mixed farm are 54% and 29% respectively. Farmgate prices, adjusted to
reflect international market conditions, were used. Foreign exchange costs
and benefits were shadow priced at Ksh 10 per US$1.00 (the official rate is
Ksh 7.14 per US$1.00) in order to reflect more accurately the value of foreign
exchange to Kenya. In view of the substantial underemployment in the mixed
farm areas, unskilled farm labor primarily that of the group owners was valued
at 50% of the market wage rate. Apart from taxes on fuel which were excluded
other taxes and subsidies on inputs would be very small and were included.
Without shadow pricing of labor and foreign exchange, the rates of return
on the coffee and the mixed farm components would be 33% and 21% respectively,
thus yielding an overall Project rate of return of 29%. On the coffee estates,
labor requirement are mainly for picking and during this period experienced
labor in the area is in demand; labor has not therefore been shadow priced.
6.05      The major risk facing the Project would be the inability of the
farms to attract and hold qualified farm managers. These farms are presently
characterized by poor management and dissension between owners, as well as
by a heavy debt burden (para 2.09). The repayment of the loans to farmers
extended under the Project would, therefore, depend to a large extent on the
implementation of the improved management practices which are essential to
the rehabilitation of the Project farms. In spite of every effort a number
of the farms are likely to continue to experience severe difficulties, and
several of these farms may not survive. The substantial benefits to be gained
from the rehabilitation effort greatly outweigh the risks involved, however,
and Project risks can be minimized to a large extent by the careful selection
of participating farms and by strict supervision of farm management. Risks
associated with management are extremely difficult to quantify, and for this
reason have not been included in the sensitivity analysis. The major quan-
tifiable risk facing the Project would be an increase in the costs of inputs
without a corresponding increase in farmgate prices.



- 25 -
6.06      The Project would be particularly sensitive to changes in certain
parameters, and the influence of these on the internal rate of return has
been calculated in Annex 10, Table 3. A 10% increase in the cost of inputs
for the mixed farms would reduce the return from 29% to 20%, while a 10%
reduction in production would reduce the return to 19%; a 10% increase in
revenues would increase the rate of return to 40%. Returns from coffee es-
tates would not be as sensitive to changes in costs or benefits: a reduc-
tion in benefits of 20% would reduce the return from 54% to 33%, while an
increase in costs of 10% would reduce the return to 45%.
Employment and Income Effects
6.07      The Project would ensure employment, either permanent or seasonal
depending on the number of group owners involved, for about 12,600 group farm
owners within the large-farm sector; the Project would thus affect a total
population of about 80,000 persons. The annual income of most of these
families including the value of subsistence production is now estimated at
about Ksh 600-1,000 or about Ksh 100-160 per person compared to a per capita
agricultural income in Kenya of about Ksh 480 (para 2.01) and per capita
GNP of Ksh 1,060. These families are therefore from the lower income levels
of Kenya's population and many of them would become landless and unemployed
if some means was not found to protect them. At full development (year 11)
each family would receive, in addition to subsistence valued at Ksh 500, an
annual cash income of Ksh 600 on the mixed farms and of Ksh 3,000 on the
coffee estates; this would make the average per capita incomes about Ksh 200
and Ksh 600 respectively.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points:
(a)  where necessary, loans for individual farms would be refinanced
for periods up to thirty years (para 3.03);
(b)  all farms and estates participating in the Project would be
group-owned problem farms which could be expected to become
viable under the Project (para 3.03);
(c)  all participating farms would be held in either company or
cooperative ownership and all members would have legal
registered status (para 3.03);
(d)  the onlending terms set forth in para 3.16 would be adhered to;
(e)  AFC would continue to employ independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and that its audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be forwarded to IDA within four months of the end
of AFC's fiscal year (para 3.19);



- 26 -
(f) Government would agree to establish and maintain a training
program for group farm managers (para 4.05);
(g) Government would negotiate with import suppliers in order to
set prices for fertilizer and bags sufficiently in advance
of the planting season so as to ensure the timely supply of
these inputs (para 5.01); and
(h) the prices of major farm crops would be published by the end
of December each year for the following year's cropping season
and that these prices would be reviewed annually and adjusted
as necessary to reflect rising input costs (para 5.03).
7.02      Conditions of Loan/Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) appointment of a Project Manager with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para 4.03); and
(b) signing of an agreement, or agreements acceptable to IDA, between
Government and one or more coffee management companies confirming
the latter's commitment to provide management, accounting and
other services and possibly working capital for about 27 coffee
estates (para 4.06).
7.03      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.5
million on the usual terms and a Bank loan of US$7.5 million with a 25-year
maturity and a grace period of five years. The borrower would be the Govern-
ment of Kenya.
February 10, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION
Agricultural Background
The Ecological Potential
1.        Kenya is a country of enormous contrasts in topograPhy, climate and
soils.  Within the country's 575,000 kn2 of land and 8,000 km  of open water,
conditions range from a limited Afro-Alpine zone in the Soutn to the tropical
coastal strip, and from near desert in the North to high rainfall forest in
the southwestern highlands. A land classification based on six broad ecological
zones was devised in 1966, and these zones are described below:
Zone I.   This extends to some 800 kn  at high altitude above the
tree line. Vegetation is moorland or grassland. Land
use is limited to water catchment and tourism.
2
Zone II.  This covers about 53,000 km  and em.ibraces the bulk of
Kenya's indigenous and planted forests. The agricultural
potential of these areas is high. Tea, coffee and
pyrethrum are iriportant cash crops at higher altitudes,
and at lower elevations cotton yields are generally good.
Livestock can be kept intensively on leys witlh carrying
capacity up to one stock unit per 0.5 ha.  Well-managed
natural grassland will support one stock unit per 1.0 to
1.5 ha.
2
Zone III. This covers about 53,000 km and has medium agricultural
potential. The zone contains most of the large-scale
mixed farming areas in which hybrid maize, wheat and
barley are important crops.  In smallholder areas maize
is the dominant crop; but cotton, groundnuts, pulses and
oilseeds are also grown and have considerable potential
for expansion and improved productivity. Livestock can
be kept intensively on leys with carrying capacities
similar to Zone II. Natural grassland can carry one stock
unit per 2.0 ha.
Zone IV.  Covering about 53,000 km , this zone presently has only
marginal agricultural potential. Commercial ranching on
well-managed natural pasture can support one stock unit
per 4.0 ha or less. Subsistence crop farming and livestock
are important in smallholder areas. Drought-escaping
Katumani maize has been developed for this zone and sorghum,
cotton, pulses and oilseeds are also grown.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Zone V.   This covers just over 300,000 km  and has moderate
rangeland development potential. The zone is the
focus of many of the present and proposed livestock
development programs, with wildlife important in many
areas. Increasing subsistence-oriented shifting
cultivation reflects population pressure on better
lands, and the risk of crop failure is great.
Zone VI.  This zone extends to about 112,000 km  in northern
Kenya. Rainfall is sparse and erratic, contributing
to the flush growth of predominantly annual grass species.
The pastoralists in the zone are mostly nomads.
2.        Rift Valley Province is Kenya's largest province and the least
homogeneous in terms of ecological potential and land use. It extends from
Kenya's northern border with Ethiopia and Sudan to the southern border with
Tanzania, covering a land area of about 172,000 km2.  This is divided among
the ecological zones approximately as follows:  II - 26,700 km2; III - 15,300
km2; IV - 34,500 km2; V - 75,400 km2; VI - 20,600 km2.  The high potential
land of Zone II is mainly on the highlands west of the Rift from the Mau and
Kericho Highlands through to the Cherangani Range. The medium potential land
of Zone III is found at lower altitudes and is often peripheral to the main
ranges. The major Zone III areas are in the Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia
plateaus and the western extremities of Kericho and Narok Districts (the Trans-
Mara). Zone IV land (with good range but low agricultural potential) is found
on the floor of the Central Rift Valley, the Masai plains of Narok and Kajiado
and the Laikipia plains northeast of the Aberdare Range. Zones V and VI with
medium to low range potential occupy the entire northern half of the province
and a smaller area around Lake Magadi at the southern end of the Rift Valley
(Kenya portion). The character of the local soils reduces agricultural potential
below that of the eco-climatic zone generally. Soils with impeded drainage
occur in the Sotik area of Kericho District and extend south into the Trans-
Mara area of Narok. Such soils also occur on the top of the Mau range west of
Mau Narok, and over much of the Uasin Gishu Plateau. The dominant farming
system is that of the large-scale mixed farms which occupy some of the best
agricultural land.
2
3.        Central Province, with an area of just over 13,100 km , embraces most
of the Aberdare Range and the southwestern portion of M't. Kenya.  Most of
the land is of high or medium potential - with about 9,300 km2 falling into
ecological Zone II and about 3,000 kr12 into Zone III. There is a small area
of low potential land (Zone V) in the east of the Province as the highlands
give way to the eastern plains. The balance, over 500 km2, consists of the
Afro-Alpine zone on the summits of rIt. Kenya and the Aberdares.  Soils in
general are good, with the major exception being the "vlei" soils (which have
impeded drainage) of the Kinangop plateau whlich lies along the western flank
of the Aberdares overlooking the Rift Valley. There is some large-scale
farming in Central Province but it by no means dominates the scene as it does
in Rift Valley. Small tea estates and mixed farms occur in the western part



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of Kiambu. While the tea enterprises represent good land use, the mixed
farms are likely to be broken up into smaller units. Large coffee estates
are common in the belt between Nairobi and Thika. They are efficiently run,
often have supplemental irrigation, and frequently yield several times more
than smallholder coffee.
Population and Land Tenure
4.        The problem of developing productive farming systems in this extremely
complex range of ecological conditions is made more difficult by the rapid rate
of growth of population and by tribal influences on the distribution of land.
Kenya's population was estimated at 11.2 million in 1970 and at 12.1 million
in 1972. The cu'rent population growth rate is probably about 3.3% per year,
a high figure by any standard. Population pressure is greatest in ecological
Zones II and III, although this pressure is building in all areas through
natural growth, and in Zones IV and V as a result of migration. On medium
and high potential land available for small-scale farming in Western, Nyanza
and Central Provinces, overall densities approximate 150 to 200 persons per
km2 on holdings averaging 3 ha. There are localities (such as the Vihiga
Division of Kakamega District in Western Province) with densities of about
500 per km2 on holdings of no more than one ha.
5.        In the period before and  just after Independence (1963), the land
tenure problem centered on the occupation of high quality land by Europeans
in the "Scheduled Areas". 1/ In the 1960's the policy was to transfer such
land back to Kenyan proprietorship. There wer.e twq main elements in this
transfer; first, settlement prog'ams whereby the large farms were subdivided
into productive smallholder plots, and secondly; direct transfer of large
farms as units to individuals, groups, companies and quasi-Government auth-
orities (such as the Agricultural Development Corporation). Overall, the
complex influences on land ownership have resulted in a wide range in size of
holding, forms of ownership, and patterns of production. In turn, these have
created difficult policy issues concerning employment opportunities, income
and wealth distribution, and the design of development programs.
6.        The present evidence on the size distribution of farms (taking 20
ha as the minimum size of a large farm) is as follows:
(a) some 2,750 residual "large farms" within the former
"Scheduled Areas," as defined in the official
Statistical Abstract;
(b)  some 400 individually held large farms plus 40 cooperative
units that exist within the formal settlement schemes;
(c) a number of large farms in Trust Land areas; plus
1/   Areas reserved for European settlement.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(d) ranches held on lease in Government lands and group and
individual ranches in Trust Lands.
Omitting this last category, it is estimated that there are in the high and
medium potential (arable) areas about 3,000 to 3,200 farms larger than 20 ha
in size.
7.        Rural family incomes from agriculture are difficult to gauge, but an
ILO study has estimated that these would generally fall within the ranges
described below:
Approximate Annual
Household Income
----- Ksh --------
Large-scale farmers                         20,000 or more
MIedium-scale farmers
less prosperous large farms            12,000 - 20,000
Prosperous smallholders                      4,000 - 12,000
Less prosperous smallholders                 2,400 - 4,000
Employees in formal sector agriculture    1,200 - 2,400
Sizeable proportion of smallholdings /1
and workers employed on smallholdings
and group owners or cooperative
members of large farms                    400 - 1,200
(Most) smallholders, pastoralists, in
semi-arid and arid zones,
unemployed and landless persons           400 or less
/1   Most of the Project group owners would fall into this category.
Mixed Farm Sector
8.        There are approximately 2,750 large farms (over 20 ha) in the former
Scheduled Areas, about 1,800 of which are mixed farms.  Most of these farms
are in Rift Valley Province, in Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Laikipia,
Kericho and Nandi Districts. The others are mainly in Central Province, in
Nyandarua and Kaimbu Districts. Rainfall in the mixed farm areas ranges from
600 mm/year in the drier parts of Nakuru, up to 1,400 mm/year in the high
forest areas of Uasin Gishu, but 1,200 mm would be fairly typical of much of
the area. There is a somewhat bimodal rainfall pattern, with first rains peak
;nonths generally in April-May and a slight second rains peak in August. (This
is not the same as the short rains period experienced in Nairobi and elsewhere
which occurs in October/November.)
9.        While the farm size varies widely, the typical farm in the Uasin
Gishu, Trans Nzoia, and Nakuru areas is about 500 ha (1,250 acres). Generally
about 90% of this area is useable land, but frequently 20% of the farm land
is only suitable for rough grazing, often because of poorly drained "vlei"



ANNEX 1
Page 5
soils or uncleared bush. A range of soil types is found. In Trans Nzoia
the soil is largely red loam derived from a granite basement rock, and the
soil is generally deficient in phosphate and sometimes in sulphur. In Uasin
Gishu the soils are derived from phonolites and range from a red clay loam
to a red loam in the higher areas. In general, however, soils are deficient
in phosphate, and sometimes sulphur. The loams in the higher areas are
generally strongly leached and subject to erosion.
10.       The major enterprises throughout most of the Rift Valley mixed
farms areas are maize, wheat, barley, dairy cattle, beef cattle; other minor
crops are phrethrum, sunflower, beans, English potatoes, wattle, coffee, tea,
and citrus. The typical farm is a wheat/maize/dairy farm with perhaps beef
cattle on the rough grazing area. The main crops are planted in the long
rains (genrally about April for maize and June for wheat), and harvesting
occurs about November-December. Except for quick maturing crops such as
English potatoes and occasionally sunflower (where two crops per year are
possible in some areas), generally one crop per year is grown.
11.       As a general rule production of the major agricultural commodities
in Kenya, especially the grain crops, is characterized by large differences
in yields depending on the climate, soils, the level of management and the
seed varieties used. There are also large year to year fluctuations in total
production of any one commsdity in response to weather conditions and some-
times to pricing policies. These characteristics are discussed below for the
three major commodities produced in the mixed farming areas.
12.       Maize.  Ilaize is Kenya's staple food in terms of both area planted
and total output. It is estimated that about one million hectares are grown
to maize annually: 61,000 ha by the large-scale farms and the rest by
smallholders and subsistence cultivators. Yields, and therefore production,
fluctuate widely, although the large-scale farms which commonly use hybrid
seeds have consistently higher yields; in 1972 these averaged 1,600 kg per
hectare, with the better farmer reaching 4,000 kg/ha. Supplies of double
hybrid maize seed are readily obtainable as a result of a successful multi-
plication scheme with new varieties initiated at the plant breeding station
at Kitale. The use of herbicides complements the use of hand and mechanical
weeding. The optimum rates of fertilizer applications are well known and
published in the District Guidelines available to growers. Pests and diseases
are not numerous: the varieties used are immune to white mildew and resistant
to the leaf rusts found in Kenya, and stalk borer is easily controlled by
spraying or dusting.
13.       Wheat.  Wheat is grown in the high and the medium potential areas
at altitude of 1,850 to 3,000 meters 1/ by large-scale farmers using modern
power equipment. The crop is not suitable for smallholder cultivation
due to its high machinery requirements. Production declined drastically
in the period 1968-72, apparently in response to consistently low yields
1/   This is generally the area in which most of the Project farm lie.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
resulting from low standards of management and to low domestic wheat prices;
production also suffered as a result of competition from the dairy and the
maize industries. Yields in this period increased significantly, however,
and average 1,575 kg/ha. 1/ Due in part to variable rainfall - which even
in a normal year can cause moisture stress during the growing season - yields
are lower in Kenya than in the main wheat growing areas of the world. Stem
rust is a recurring problem as constant mutation gives rise to ever-changing
strains which break through the resistence barrier created by the wheat breed-
ers. However, the plant breeding station at Njoro has extensive experience
in this field and at present is well ahead in the race to produce new varieties.
In most Kenya soils phosphatic fertilizers are essential and good crops are
dependent on proper and timely applications. It is extremely important that
the overall area planted to wheat be significantly increased over the next
several years. This should be possible provided that the price paid to growers
keeps pace with rising costs of machinery, fuel and fertilizers and that
Government policy allows the timely supply of inputs.
14.       Milk.  Kenya's dairy herd was comprised of about 400,000 mature
exotic cows in 1972, and the herd is expected to reach about 625,000 head by
1978, Milk yields average 830 kg per cow per year for these improved types,
compared to only 150 kg per cow per year for the unimproved zebu, and it is
estimated that these yields can be more than doubled through better livestock
husbandry. The yields of over 1,600 kg per cow per year expected in Project
farms are not, therefore, unrealistic. In view of these results, there is
an extremely high demand for exotic milking strain heifers. Production costs
for milk in Kenya are low. Cattle are kept outside due to the equable climate
and fodder is derived from natural herbage and planted leys; during the dry
season fodder is produced cheaply from hay or maize silage. As production
is low, only small amounts of concentrates are required to supplement the grass.
Disease control is much dependent on the adequacy of veterinary services.
Generally adequate vaccination coverage against anthrax, blackquarter, foot
and mouth and other diseases is provided. Tick-borne diseases - of which East
Coast fever is the most important - are controlled by constant dipping of the
cattle.
Coffee Estate Sector
15.       There are a total of 85,000 hectares planted to coffee in Kenya;
of these about 30,000 ha (35%) are given over to estate production, and the
remainder is cultivated by about 270,000 smallholders with an average coffee
area of 0.2 ha each. In the past decade there has been an overall decrease
in net planted area. This decline can be attributed to ranagerial problems
and a lack of credit on estates recently transferred to Kenyan ownership and
to the rapid spread of Coffee Berry Disease (CBD). Smallholder production
was particularly affected by CBD, as the reduced yields combined with lower
coffee prices discouraged farmers from undertaking the relatively expensive
spraying programs essential to control of the disease. Planting was also
1/   This is somewhat less than the 1,800 kg/ha expected from the Project
farms after development.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
restricted prior to September 1973 under the terms of the International
Coffee Agreement. Although this Agreement has been extended on an informal
basis until 1975, the export quotas and price guidelines are no longer in
force. The new Development Plan calls for the expansion of output over several
years by means of a very small expansion of the area under coffee, but mainly
by further increases in yield levels. In view of Kenya's relatively small share
of the.world market, any increase in export sales would not have an appreciable
effect on international coffee prices.
16.       Total coffee production in Kenya has risen substantially over the
last two years, mainly due to a major improvement in yields closely linked
to the control of CBD and to price improvements. Average yields were about
900 kg/ha in this period as compared with 700 kg/ha in previous years. The
main improvement took place in the estate sector, where yields averaged about
1,300 kg/ha. with many estates producing over 2,000 kg/ha. Some of this
improvement could also be accounted for by the development of minor irrigation
systems, especially in the Thika District.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
C-ROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
1.        Conventionally, credit is divided into long-term credit, mainly
for land purchase; medium-term credit for land development including land
clearing, livestock, buildings and equipment purchases; and short-term credit
for farm inputs and crop financing. The institutions providing these dif-
ferent forms of credit in Kenya are numerous and varied. First there are
the old farm credit institutions which served the European farmers before
independence in 1963:  these include the comnercial banks; the Kenya Farmers
Association (KFA) which provides credit in kind through the trade terms which
it extends on purchase of agricultural inputs by members; several similar
smaller firms; and finally the Government-backed Land and Agricultural Bank
now merged into the Agricultural Finance Corporation, which also operates
the Guaranteed Minimum Return Scheme (GMR). Secondly, there are the new
farm credit institutions which were introduced to help develop smallholder
agriculture: (i) the cash crop authorities which provide loans in kind and
include the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), the Pyrethrum Board,
the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board and the Coffee Board; (ii) the
Ministry of Settlement which has assisted some 30,000 settlers; (iii) the
cooperative movement, specially the cooperative societies associated with
coffee production, and the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS); and
(iv) the experimental small-scale lending schemes of the major commercial
banks, the FAO input supply schemes and various related pilot programs. The
British Land Transfer Program (and its related development schemes) was
instituted to facilitate the transition from the European large-scale com-
mercial agriculture to one based on African ownership.
Commercial Banking System
2.        The Kenya banking system consists of the Central Bank, 7 commercial
banks, the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank.
The Central Bank exercises little control over agricultural lending except
by setting the prime interest rate. Four of the commercial banks are signif-
icantly involved in agricultural lending: the Kenya Commercial Bank (which
is the largest), Barclays Bank International, Standard Bank (Kenya) Limited
and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya.
3.        Central Bank statistics indicate that as of December 31, 1973, the
commercial banking system had total deposits of Ksh 4,559 million and total
advances of Ksh 3,228 million, giving a ratio of advances to deposits of
70.8%. Total direct lending to agriculture was Ksh 356 million, or approxi-
mately 11% of total advances.  The bulk of commercial bank lending to agri-
culture is to large-scale farming companies and to corporations engaged in



ANNEX 2
Page 2
agro-industrial activities; however, commercial banks also handle a number
of loans to small farmers and appear interested in expanding this aspect of
their activities in spite of management constraints and the high cost of such
lending. Loans to large-scale farmers are primarily for working capital,
while loans to small farmers are frequently for farm development. Almost
all commercial bank lending to the private sector in Kenya is on a secured
basis, with land the most common form of asset pledged.
4.        Due to the importance of land in relation to the total assets of
most farms, and in spite of the many problems mortgages on agricultural land
may present to commercial bank lending to farmers, land is the only acceptable
security for most lenders to the agricultural sector. Foreclosure involves
complicated procedures which take time and involve substantial cost to the
creditor. The main alternatives to land as security are movable assets and
standing crops; charges against movable assets are sometimes used, but this
alternative is not attractive to lenders because of problems of control.
Other conditions and terms attached to agricultural credit extended by com-
mercial banks do not difer greately from those which apply to other sectors.
Interest rates vary from 8% to 10% per annum payable on amounts outstanding.
In most cases commercial banks are prepared to grant extensions to repayment
schedules or maturity dates in cases involving circumstances beyond the
farmer's control such as adverse weather conditions or sharp drops in market
prices.
5.        The commercial banks are better suited to servicing large farmers
(particularly with seasonal requirements), but nevertheless each of the three
large banks has experimented with smallholder loans projects during the period
since Independence (1963). It is evident that the banks are showing increasing
interest in agricultural lending, and have therefore appointed several officers
specialized in agricultural banking.
6.        The Cooperative Bank of Kenya is a specialied institution which
began operations in 1969; the Bank has only one office, located in Nairobi.
It is registered both as a commercial bank and as a cooperative organization.
It does not provide a full range of banking services and has no individual
depositors, but serves as the financial arm of the cooperative system. It
offers its clientele (which is limited to cooperative societies) banking
services designed to meet their specific needs and is also designed to support
Government efforts to strengthen the cooperative movement. The aim of the
Cooperative Bank is to pool funds generated by cooperatives and to make
them available to the cooperative movement. The Bank was founded because it
was felt that cooperative deposits in the commercial banking system were large
in relation to the services extended to cooperatives by commercial banks and
it was also believed that the volume of cooperative transactions was sufficient
to justify the existence of a specialized bank. Cooperative societies general-
ly maintain accounts at a commercial bank branch in the nearest commercial
center for day-to-day convenience. The Cooperative Bank lends to societies
under the cooperative production credit scheme for crop finance, and also
provides a limited amount of medium-term finance for coffee factories, cotton
ginneries and other investments-undertaken by cooperatives.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        Individual farmers and primary societies may borrow in kind from
their societies under a standard formula, subject to the approval of the
society's credit committee (which includes the society's management and the
local extension officer). The farmer's borrowing limit is set at 2/3 of
his annual production turnover handled by the society, based on experience
over the past three years; the total credit extended is limited by the amount
of credit available to the society from its own members savings and other
cooperatives societies. Societies lend against estimated crop proceeds and
require that letters of undertaking relating to stop orders be obtained from
statutory buying boards before credit is extended. Each borrower must also
provide security in the form of two guarantors.
The Agricultural Finance Corporation
8.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), was established in
1963 as a statutory body (a Government owned body established by law) to
take over the credit functions of the two Boards of Agriculture then serving
the Scheduled (European) and Nonscheduled (African) Areas, and to work in
close cooperation with the Land and Agricultural Bank established in 1931.
Under the AFC Act of 1969, AFC was reconstituted with wider additional powers
and took over the operations and assets and liabilities of the Land and Agri-
cultural Bank. The present functions of the corporation are to assist in
the development of agriculture and agricultural industries by making loans to
farmers, cooperative societies, incorporated group representatives, private
companies, public bodies, local authorities and other persons engaging in
agriculture or agricultural industries. At present, AFC is the primary
agricultural credit institution in Kenya and it is the only lender serving
the farm sector through a variety of lending programs to both the small and
large farms.
9.        AFC is presently extending credit under three large-scale schemes
supported by external donors. The first of these schemes covers land purchase
and development loans financed under the British Land Transfer Program. The
major components of the transfer program were: (i} settlement schemes, involv-
ing predominantly smallholdings but also including some medium to large-scale
farms and some cooperative units; (ii) the British Land Transfer Assisted
Owners Scheme through which transfer of farms owned by UK citizens and located
outside settlement areas was facilitated by providing funds to the Kenya
Government for on-lending to AFC; and (iii) the Stamp Purchase Plan which was
initiated in 1966 to finance the purchase and transfer of the remaining British
owned farms which comprised some of the best farms in the country and to ensure
their continuation as single units in order to safeguard what was considered
the unique economic advantages of this scale of activity. The Kenya Government
acting through the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) acquired 120
farms under the latter plan, and sixteen of the largest and best of these were
retained as State Farms and are managed by ADC "in the national interest."



ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       The second of the large-scale schemes involves ranching loans funded
jointly by IDA, Sweden, and USAID. These are designed to assist in the de-
velopment of different types of ranching organizations (group, company,
individual and commercial ranching enterprises) and involved the establishment
and improvement of technical services for the ranching sector plus investment
in livestock routes and marketing facilities.
11.       The third scheme is comprised of the large farm development programs
supported by the overseas development finance institution of the Federal
Republic of Germany, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), to provide funds
for the establishment of state-owned animal breeding farms and for the ration-
alization of large-scale African farms in the Trans Nzoia District. Funds were
made available to AFC for on-lending to a number of large-scale African farmers
in the Kitale area whose farms it was expected could benefit from injections
of capital. An agricultural team provided under West German foreign assist-
ance is operating in this area, and loan funds were provided to support their
extension activities.
12.       AFC is also extending credit under two small-scale programs which
include smallholder development projects funded by IDA and KFW. These pro-
jects were designed to provide credit for on-farm development and to assist
in diversifying and improving crops and animal husbandry practices of selected
smallholders. Included also is a small poultry development element, financing
for farm machinery and equipment, and a technical assistance element providing
for an agricultural credit survey in Kenya.
13.       In addition to those schemes supported by external donors, AFC
operates its own small-scale and large-scale lending schemes from its own
resources (which stem largely from capital provided by the Government). The
AFC small-scale lending program 4s mainly directed towards the less favored
districts in which land registration has not yet been completed and in which
land cannot therefore be used as loan security. As external resources are
generally available in areas where land mortgages can be given, AFC is thus
able to devote its own resources to the marginal-areas. AFC also operates
a large-scale lending program from its own resources (i.e. it is not part
of any project receiving assistance from multilateral or bilateral donors)
which provides both land purchase and development loans as a supplement to
those provided by the British Land Transfer Program. Although no breakdown
of large-scale loans by purpose is available, it is estimated that approxi-
mately 60% of all large-scale loans irrespective of the source of financing
are for land purchase, about 30% are for on-farm development and about 7%
are for repayment of outstanding debts other than those owed to AFC. These
debt consolidating loans are granted to enable AFC to obtain a charge over
the farmer's assets, and such a consolidation is generally considered to be
to the farmer's advantage as the AFC loan is normally at a lower rate of
interest than is obtainable elsewhere and it is usually accompanied by farm
planning services.
14.       Small-scale programs generally provide funds in amounts up to Ksh
10,000, while large-scale schemes are typically much larger and often finance



ANNEX 2
Page 5
quite different farm enterprises. Although the ratio of large-scale to small-
scale loans outstanding as of March 31, 1973 stood at 6:1, AFC in fact has
many more small-scale than large-scale borrowers. AFC's large-scale portfolio
includes land purchase loans which are extended for a 30-year term, while
practically all of the small-scale loans are for land and enterprise develop-
ment, on terms ranging from 3 to 10 years; the small-scale portfolio thus has
a more rapid turnover than the large-scale portfolio.
15.       AFC acts also as agent for the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR)
program. This program provides seasonal production credit to growers with
more than 15 ha under wheat and hybrid maize. It was originally started in
1942 as a war-time measure to encourage large-scale crop production, and until
1966 applied only to plots of at least 100 acres under specified crops. The
program has gradually been reduced in scope with regard to the variety of
crops covered, but has been modified and expanded through a lowering of the
minimum size of holding eligible for participation. GMR is presently funded
by the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation (CSFC) and AFC acts as agent for
the disbursement and collection of GMR funds. Advances under the program are
given up to specified maxima (recently increased to Ksh 350 per acre for the
1975 planting season) and for specified purposes. Interest is charged at
8.5% p.a.; 5% of this goes to CSFC, 3% to AFC as a commission, and 0.5% is
credited to Crop Inspection Account. For the 1974 planting season, the amount
advanced fell sharply due to the high cost of inputs and the relatively dis-
couraging prices of crops covered by the program, and the restrictions imposed
whereby advances are only made to farmers who have repaid previous advances
and are in good credit standing with AFC.
16.       AFC lends on a secured basis, generally against mortgages on land,
and in certain instances charges are also taken against movable property.
In general, the coverage should not be less than 1-1/2 times the approved
loan. When the loan is in default, the entire amount outstanding becomes due
automatically under a clause included in AFC's loan agreements. However, at
stages short of foreclosure AFC does not exercise its right to call the entire
amount outstanding. The Corporation has recently instituted a policy of pay-
ing interest (at approximately 5% p.a.) to borrowers who in effect make pre-
payments through monthly payments to AFC in anticipation of larger sums which
fall due quarterly.
17.       Management and Organization.  AFC was transfered to the office of
the President in June 1970, but no changes were made in the composition of
its Board of Directors. The Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Ministry
of Agriculture are represented on the Board by their Permanent Secretaries,
and the Secretary of Finance and Planning currently serves as Chairman of
the Board. Tn addition to the two Permanent Secretaries, the board consists
of between four and six Ministerial appointees (two of whom are required to
have experience in banking or finance) drawn from official and private sources.
18.       The General Manager is the chief executive officer of the Corporation,
but he is not a member of the Board of Directors. He is appointed by the Board,
with the advise and consent of the Ministers concerned. The present General



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Manager was appointed in June 1973 after having been Deputy General Manager
of the Corporation since 1965. He is responsible to the Board for the day-
to-day operations of the Corporation, and he is assisted by a Deputy General
Manager who was previously a senior officer of the Ministry of Agriculture.
19.       The Corporation has a fairly centralized structure, with a Head
Office located in Nairobi and a network of 32 branch offices which provide
coverage of Kenya's principal agricultural districts. During the past two
years some decentralization has taken place in an effort to spread the admin-
istrative burden and to use the existing staff more effectively. Four Area
Managers play a vital role in the decentralization process, as each is re-
sponsible for the guidance and supervision of offices in his geographical area
of responsibility. Three of the area managers were provided by USAID and the
fourth was provided by German Aid. Most of the loan approvals for small-
scale loans are made at the Head Office on the recommendations of branch
managers, although an initial screening takes place in the field in two
stages. In the first stage extension staff advise farmers to purchase an
AFC loan application and assist them to fill it in; at the second stage
District Loan Committees (which include branch managers and extension officers)
advise AFC's head office on the credit-worthiness of prospective borrowers
in their respective districts.
20.       The Corporation's loan operations are carried out by th'e Loan
Department assisted by two service departments, the Finance and Accounts
Department and the Administrative Services Department. AFC's established
salary levels are somewhat above Government levels, although they are still
below those prevailing in the private sector. The commercial banks, which
compete with AFC in the labor market, are free to set their own renumeration
schedules. AFC's salary policies probably contribute to the high turnover
of local staff, and may also prevent AFC from obtaining the caliber of staff
which it so badly needs. At present AFC employs about 15 expatriates, mostly
on bilateral aid, some of whom are due to leave shortly; these include the
head of the Loan Department and the Financial Controller. The General Manager
is at present engaged in a reorganization of the management structure and
is also reconsidering AFC's salary scale, taking into account the conditions
prevailing in the commercial sector. Any such reorganization would be sub-
mitted to the Board of AFC for approval and would thereafter be transmitted
to IDA prior to implementation.
21.       Financial Resources.  The bulk of AFC's financial resources is
provided by the Government. As of March 31, 1973, about Ksh 202 million
(US$28.7 million) out of total funds of Ksh 251 million (US$35.6 million)
were financed by Government.  AFC's capital consists partly of irredeemable
or ownership capital, some of which is interest-bearing (originally belonging
to the predecessor corporation, the Land and Agricultural Bank), and the
remainder is interest-free grants, and redeemable or long-term debt capital.
As of March 31, 1973, irredeemable capital amounted to Ksh 126 million
(US$17.6 million), of which Ksh 46 million (US$6.4 million) were interest free
grants. Redeemable loans which include proceeds of loans to Government from
IDA and other external sources which were on-lent to AFC amounted to Ksh 125



ANNEX 2
Page 7
million (US$17.5 million) as of that date. Prior to the effectiveness of the
IDA Smallholder Credit Project in 1967, interest was charged to AFC by Govern-
ment at 6% p.a., but since that date all funds have been provided at 3.5% p.a.
in accordance with the terms of that credit which stipulated that Government
would not charge more than 3.5Z p.a. on any future loans to AFC made while
AFC is indebted with respect to that project. For fiscal year 1973 the blend
of interest payable averaged 4.5% on interest bearing capital or 3.5% on
total resources including interest free grants.
22.       Results of Operations and Projections.  Since reorganization in
1969, total small and large-scale loans outstanding increased from Ksh 158
million (US$22.1 million) to Ksh 244 million (US$34.2 million) in 1973. The
amount of resources applied to large-scale loans is approximately six times
that applied to small-scale loans. In the second IDA Smallholder Credit
Project in 1972, it was agreed that AFC's lending rate would be raised from
7.5% p.a. to 8% p.a. This rate applied to all loans under all projects made
after January 1, 1973 and also to interest charged on amounts overdue after
that date. For fis-cal year 1973, the blend of interest receivable averaged
7% on AFC's total portfolio and will improve considerably in future as the
interest rate has recently been increased to 9% per annum.
23.       AFC's small-scale loans involve considerable overhead and admin-
istrative costs in relation to the principal amounts involved. Moreover,
AFC's large-scale clients include some who may not have been able to borrow
from private institutions or commercial sources, indicating a higher risk
position. Apart from the financial and economic reasons that dictated the
lowering of interest chargeable on funds made available to AFC and an increase
in the rate of interest charged by AFC on its loans to borrowers, another com-
pelling reason for these adjustments has been the inability of AFC to break
even.
24.       Financial projections for the fiscal years 1975 to 1979 were pre-
pared by AFC.  It was assumed that the net portfolio (i.e. loans outstanding
at the beginning of year plus disbursements less repayments during the year)
would increase by 10% yearly except for 1975, where a 17% increase was taken
into consideration to make up for the slow increase in fiscal year 1974 which
was caused by slow processing of loans and the accumulation of undisbursed
funds. Net funds making up the ownership and debt capital of the corporation
were assumed to increase by the same amount as the increase in net portfolio.
On the other hand, other income was assumed to remain constant, as the
commission earned on GMR is expected to decrease as the program declines in
importance while others would show a slight increase due to the increase in
interest earned on idle funds. Salaries were budgeted for 1974-75 at an
increase of 26% over 1974 (due to a 15% increase in pay and an increase in
number of staff); however, for future years it was assumed that salaries
would increase annually by an average of 5% while other administrative ex-
penses would increase by 10% p.a. Provisions for bad and doubtful debts
have been added yearly at 1% of the total portfolio outstanding at the end
of each year as has been the policy of the corporation in recent years.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Interest receivable, which in fiscal year 1973 averaged 7% of the total
portfolio outstanding, would improve on average by about 0.2 p.a. with the
amortization of old loanE at interest rates ranging from 5Uto 6% and the issue
of new loans at 71% and 8% and beginning in the last quarter of 1974 at 9%.
On the other hand., cost of fundE would decrease by 0.1% p.a. due to the
lower rate of interest at which the Corporation is obtaining additional
funds from the Government. In spite of the gradual and continuing
improvement in the spread, projections show that AFC even with the recent
increaEe in interest rate would continue to operate at a loFs for several years -
although on a decreasing scale ranging from Ksh 2.5 million in l975 to
Ksh !5O,000 in 1977. It should then operate at a profit which would steadily
increase withi_icreaFed volume of lending. The recent increaEe in interest
is important in allowing AFC to move towards a balanced budget.
25.       AFC has for several years been experiencing delays in the preparation
of accounts and production of timely statements for billing purposes because
of problems with accounting machines. A new computer has been installed,
and it is expected that all accounts would be on the computer by the end of
1974. The small-scale loans have already been programmed, and after a few
teething problems at the outset it is now possible to obtain an up-to-date
aging schedule of arrears of small-scale loans. The preparation of loan
statements and a regular monthly billing system will thereby be made more
efficient, and AFC's branches would be expected to follow up persistent de-
faulters, thus hopefully bringing about a radical improvement in the arrears
situation. As of March 31, 1973, arrears on small-scale loans as a percentage
of total small-scale loans outstanding (inclusive of arrears) amounted to 24.3%
(an increase of approximately 2% over 1971), while arrears on large-scale
loans oscillated around 14% of total large-scale loans over the years. The
aging schedule of arrears as at March 31, 1973, shows that 43% of small-scale
loans and 47% of large-scale loans are over 1 year old. In recent years AFC
has followed the practice of adding 1% of the total portfolio outstanding
at year end to the provision for bad and doubtful debts calculated on a
statistical basis without any reference to the actual loans. This has ac-
cumulated over the years and as of the end of fiscal year 1973 stood at
Ksh 16.7 million, or approximately 7% of total loans outstanding including
arrears. AFC has agreed to study the arrears situation, and the auditors are
expected to look into the adequacy of the provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Some opinion was voiced that the present provision is excessive, which if cor-
rect would relieve future earnings.
26.       AFC's Project cash flow is at Annex 2, Table 4.  On-lending to
AFC by Government from the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Government's own
resources would be at 3% p.a. on amounts outstanding. Repayment would be
spread over a period of 30 years including a 3 year grace period to allow for
delays in repayment by farmers. It was assumed that, on average, 5% of the
installments due in each year would be written off as bad and that 20% would
be late in being repaid (half would be repaid in the following year and the



ANNEX 2
Page 9
remaining half in the year after). Based on these assumptions, AFC would
face a cash deficit in the second year only of the Project and would begin to
show a reasonable surplus from the third year onward.
27.       Loans advanced during 1972 reached their highest level in the
history of AFC, with approximately Ksh 76 million being disbursed during
that fiscal year. Advances in 1973 fell below that figure due to an accumu-
lation of approved but unprocessed loans created by a bottleneck in the legal
department. This situation is expected to be corrected within fiscal year
1974. Disbursements under the new Project are expected to reach approximately
Ksh 19 million in each of the third and fourth years, and at the peak would
represent 25% of AFC's annual volume of operations. However, these loans are
to large-scale farms and are few in number and, therefore would represent a
much smaller percentage if analyzed on the basis of the number of operations.
Any additional staff requirements due to this increase have already been ade-
quately provided for and no further increases would be necessary.
East African Acceptances
28.       East African Acceptances (EAA) is a financial institution incorporated
in Kenya in 1968 with a fully paid up authorized share capital of Ksh 5 million.
Shareholders are Standard Bank, London, 30%; Barclays Bank, London, 30%; Latham,
22%; and Brooke Bond, 18%. At present, due to Central Bank regulations to stop
dealings abroad, EAA has accumulated liquid funds that are tied up in Kenya.
In order to provide an outlet for these funds, EAA has begun providing working
capital along with management expertise to selected coffee estates.
29.       EAA has set up an Estate Management Division, which is now in the
process of being formed into a subsidiary corporation to be known as East
African Acceptances Estate Management Limited, to provide technical manage-
ment and operating finance for coffee estates. This tec4nical management
service is based at Thika with a head office in Nairobi. The Thika office
has two expatriate consultants, one office manager and supporting clerical
and secretarial staff. As business activity expands as EAA takes over the
management of an increasing number of farms, group managers will be appointed
from experienced expatriate farmers to supervise up to 800 ha, or about 10
farms of an average 80 ha each. The estate managers would be carefully
selected from graduates of Thompsons Falls Training Institute or from persons
with proven ability and experience on other coffee estates.
30.       By mid-1974 EAA was managing a total of 1,750 ha of coffee.  The
original pattern was for EAA to simply provide a visiting manager for the
estates to which it furnished credit, but this did not prove successful and
EAA now refuses to get involved unless they have complete control of the farm.
Their standard management fees are charged on a sliding scale of Ksh 420 per
acre for the first 100 acres, Ksh 360 per acre for the second hundred, Ksh 300
per acre for the third hundred, and Ksh 240 per acre for any acreage in excess
of 300. As marketing agent, EAA also charges a normal commission of 1-1/2%



ANNEX 2
Page 10
on the gross value of the crop to cover auction and other expenses and to pay
classification charges. In addition, secretarial and accounting services are
offered at Ksh 80 per acre, but in most cases a fee is agreed to on a lump sum
basis. EAA also provides short-term financing at about 10% p.a. for short-
term development and working capital. EAA's overall charges areconsidered
reasonable.
31.       EAA has thus far confined itself to the management of coffee estates
but eventually expects to be able to go into mixed farming. The owners of
those estates under EAA management are expected to be able to take over the
management of their own estates at the end of the agreed contract period,
which is normally five years.



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Balance Sheet
(Ksh'O000)
Audited                               Unaudited                                     Projections LI
As of March 31,                                 1971         19?2                1978         1974                1975         1976          1977         1978          1979
Loans to Farmers:
Large-scale                                 168,043      185,172            209,767       224,859            258,944       284,400      312,780       343,740      378,140
Small-scale                                  21,593       29.142              33.797       38.381             42,802        46.946       51,566        56.606        62.206
Total                                     189,636      214,314             243,564      263,240            301,746       331,346      364,346       400,346      440,346
Provision for doubtful debts                 11.086       13.763              16.743       14,565             22,512        25,812       29.412        33,412        37,812
178,550      200,551             226,821      248,675            279,234       305,534      334,934       366,934      402,534
Other Loans and Deposits                       24,394       23,248              11,975       20,747               8,400        8,400         8,400        8,400         8,400
Current Assets:
Debtors and accruals                          2,856        4,975               7,226        9,962               9,052        9,940        10,930       12,010        13,210
Cash and bank balances                        6.683        7,2y5              14.092       11,019             12.478        12.840       13,600        15,370        18,120
Total                                       9,539       12,250              21,318       20,981              21,530       22,780        24,530       27,380        31,330
Fixed Assets                                    6,077        6,181               6.004        5.802               6,190        6,190         6.190        6,190         6,190
Total Assets                                  218,560      242,230             266,018      296,205             315,354      342,904       374,054      408,904       448,454
Less:
Current Liabilities
Deposits at call                              2,107        2,107               2,107        2,107               2,107        2,107         2,107        2,107         2,107
Land purchase deposits                        2,082        7,372               1,649        2,780               2,753        2,753         2,753        2,753         2,753
Creditors and accrued charges                 5,151        5.093               6,521        5,491               4,000        4,000         4,000        4.000         4,000
Total                                       9,340       14,572              10,277       10,378               8.860        8,860         8,860        8.860         8.860
209,220      227,658             255,741      285,827             306,494      334.044       365,194      400,044       439,594
Financed by:
Loans and Grants
Irredeemable Loans                           80,100       80,100              80,100       80,100              80,100       80,100        80,100        80,100       80,100
Redeemable Loans                             78,697       97,642             125,230      150,737             181,900      211,500       244,500       280,500      320,500
Interest free Grants                         44,660       44,827              45.822       47,080              45,100       45,100        45.100        45,100       45,100
203,457      222,569             251,152      277,917             307,100      336,700       369,700      405,700       445,700
Accumulated Surplus/(Deficit)                   5.763         5.089              4.589        7,910                (606)       (2,656)      (4,506)       (5,656)       (6,106)
Total Loans, Grants and Surplus               209,220      227,658             255,741      285,827             306,494       334,044      365,194       400,044      439,594
1/ lWithout proect.
February 13, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REAB_ILITATION PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Income Statements
(Ksh '000)
Audited                               Unaudited                                  Projections 1/
Year Ended March 31,                       1971         1972               1973        1974                 1975        1976       1977        1978        1979
Interest earned                         13,130       15,678              17,128     18,517                21,557      24,800    27,600      31,100       34,500
Less: Interest payable                    7,861       8,431               9,158       9,948               11,069      11,900    12,900       14,000      15,200
Net                                       5,269       7,247               7,970       8,569               10,488      12,900    14,700       17,100      19,300
Other Income                              2,430       2,951               4,301       3,338                2,919       3,000      3,100       3,200       3,300
Total                                  7,699       10,198              12,271     11,907                13,407      15,900    17,800       20,300      22,600
Administrative Expenses                   5,990        7,401              8,757      10,037                11,998     12,800    13,600       14,500       15,400
Provision for bad debts                   2,364        2,804              3,249      (2,255)               3,000       3,300      3,600       4,000       4,400
Depreciation                                432          667                765         837                   871         950     1,050       1,150        1,250
Total                                  8,786       10,872              12,771      8,619                15,869      17,050    18,250       19,650      21,050
Net Income/(Loss)                        (1,087)        (674)              (500)      3,288                (2,462)     (1,150)      (450)        650       1,550
1/ Without project.
February 13, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
WFC Financial Statements - Cash Flow
(lKshrO0O)
Audited                             Unaudited                               Projections
Year Ended March 31,                               1971         1972               1973        1974              1975       1976        1977        1978        1979
Net Income/(Loss)                                 (1,087)        (674)              (500)      3,288            (2,462)    (1,150)       (450)        650      1,550
Depreciation                                         432          667                765         837               871        950       1,050       1,150      1,250
Provision for doubtful debts                       2,364        2.804              3,249      (1,.606)          3,000       3,300       3,600       4,000      4,400
Total Cash Generation                            1,709        2,797              3,514       2,519             1,409      3,100       4,200       5,800      7,200
Net increase in loan funds                        13,713       19,112             28,583      26,765           30,200      29,600      33,000      36,000     40,000
Decrease in other loans and deposits               5,847        1,146             11,373      (8.872)             (414)       -           -           -           -
Total Funds Available                             21,269       23,055             43,470      20,412            31,195     32,700      37,200      41,800     47,200
Applied to:
Net increase in loans to borrowers                17,613       24,678             29,250      19,676            43,500     29,600      33,000      36,000      40,000
Decrease in current liabilities                    3,848       (5,232)             4,295        (101)           (2,625)       -           -           -           -
Additions to fixed assets                             741         771                588         635               876         950      1,050       1,150       1,250
Increase in debtors                                 (594)       2,119              2,251       2,736               358        888         990       1,080       1,200
Bad debts written off                                   8         127                269         539               -           -          -           -           -
Total                                           21,616       22,463             36,653      23,485           42,109      31,438      35,040      38,230      42,450
Surplusf(Deficit)                                    (347)        592              6,817       3,073           (10,914)      1,262      2,160       3,570       4,750
Opening Cash Balance                               7,030          -                  --                                        -          -           -           -
Annual Surplus/(Deficit) without Project           6,683        7,275             14,092      11,019               105       1,367      3,527       7,097      11,847
=====   =====   =====   =S===              ==:        =:w===    ====*==       -===       __==t           P 
Annual Surplus/(Deficit) from Project 1/                                                                           _            17        (407)        792      1,229
Total Annual Surplus/(Deficit)                                                                                     105       1,384      3,120       7,889      13,076
1/ Annex 2, Table 4.
February 14, 1975



KETYA
GROUP FAMS REHA8ILITATION PROJECT
AFC Proiect Ca-h Plw }/
(Ksh 000)
Y-hr I        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Y-hr 5          Toetl        Year 6         Yr 7           Ye-r B         Year 9        Year 10 5/
CASH INFLOW:
From Gavarment:
for o-.Ie1ding                         7,136         15,060        18,934         19,664           ,0278       68,872
for addititol tarff .-st.             2,180          3,023         3,625          3,625         3,625         16,078            -              -              -
f-r ttdy                                 220            220            67             67            67            641
Sub-total                            9,536         18,303        22,626         23,356         11,770        85,591            -              -              -              -
Ropayotets by Boerowra-
Mixed Fa-:s
long-tones                             -              107           427            985         1,643          3,162          2,118          2,293         2,293          2,293          2,293
ordiR=-term                            -              281           959          1,909          2,898         6,046          3,317          3.317          3.317         3,036          2,359
torkirg capitol                                     2,167         5,453          9.089        10,283         26,992          6.519          2,470            -              -
Coffee Estates
1og- to=                               -              62            174            286           398            920            448            448           448            448            448
-edi;o-tero                            -              187           672          1,157          1,642         3,650          1,940          1.940          1,940         1,753           1,268
worbieg -opinol                        _              885         2,423          3.549         4,709         11,571          4.494          2.967          1.645            740           342
Sub-totol                              _           3,689         10,112         16,975        21,573         52,349         18,836         13,435          9,643         8,270          6,710
Bad Dobto 2/                             -             (104)         (506)          (849)        (1,079)       (2.618)          (942)          (672)          (482)          (414)          (336)
Late topayneote 3/                       -             (738)       (1,653)        (2,015)        (1,607)       (6,013)            88          1,354          1,298            654           450
Sub-total                              -           2,767          7,953         14,111        18,887         43,718         17,982         14,117         10,459         8,510          6,824
Total C.oh Ifl-w                      9,536         21,070        30,579         37,467        30,657        129,309         17,982         14,117         10.459         8,510          6,824
CASH OUTFLOW:
Loans to Mixod Fo-ma
loag-_ee                             1,219         3,568          5,047         5,612          3,044         18,490
aodi o-t.r-                          1,456         3,400          4,736          4,960         2,128         16,700            -              -              _              _
wor_kig capitol                      2.060         5,181          8,637          9,770         6.194         31,842          2.348
Sub-total                           4,735         12,149         18,420         20,362        11,366         67,032          2,348            -              _              _
L.0.. to Coff-- E,tate-
long-tert                              500           900            900            900           400          3,600
=ediut-toro                            940         2,440          2,440          2,440          1.500         9,760
working c-pital                        612         2.228          3,256          4.320         4.123         14,739          2.722          1.509            679            314
sub-total                           2,252          5,568          6,596         7,660          6,023         28,099          2,722          1,509            679            314           -
Debt Service to Governo,eOt 4/
Prin4ipal                                -                            -            2,860         2,860          5,720          2,860          2,860          2,860          2,860          2,860
IntereSt                                 132           517          1,079          1,664         2,188          5,580          2.102          2,016         1.931           1,845          1,759
Sub-total                              132           517          1,078         4,524          5,048         11,300          4,962          4,876          4,791          4,705          4,619
Additional Stuff Cost,                   2,180          3,023         3,625          3,625          3,625        16,078          2,720          2,720          2,520          2,400            -
La.ge-S1Cl. Fur,u Study                    02Z            Z20            67             67             63           641            -              -              -              -
Total Cauh Outflo                        9,519        21,477         29,787         36,238         26,129       123,150         12,752          9,105          7,990          7,419          4,619
ANNUAL CA4H SOIRPIIIS/(DEFICIT)               17           (407)           792         1,229          4,528          6,159         5,230          5,012          2,469          1.091          2,205
1/ Euluding contisgeec ei.
2/ 5, of instalIents duo to each year vore ausuotd on avorago  0 br bud debts.
3/ 20! of is.to1.e.ts duo in each your would be lstl, half would be collected in the fol.o1iog
year end the other ohif in th1 year oftr,
4/ LIon rep_y.ble over 30 yours including 3 your, grace period at 37 p .. on 000.0.   outsta ndin g
5/ Subjec-t0 any overdue  -notalant, repoy-eetn of ohd-oo-teto loos sbould be co-pleted by the                                                                                                                  a
end of your 12 .nd of long-term loans by year 20.  Debt eervicr to Covor_uent,
however, wold continuc to year 30.  Although rosh ieflow fro- project would c..ne from Ye-r 20
AFC vouid have the adv-otage of otEltoing the f-nd. coletod in pr-vioua y-ara until repaid to
Governvent.
boveober 6, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 5
KENYA
GROUP FARME REHABMMIT7TION PROJECT
East Africa  Acceptancea Lizdted   Balanne Sheet
(Ksh OOO)
Audited
3/31/1973
LIABILITIES:
Depcsivvrs accounts l                108,749
C=rant- Liabilities
Sundry creditors                     1,C29
Taxation                             -  5
P-rposed dividend                       75D
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS
CaZ i~:                                 - , 5 O
Reserve                                   210
Suzn!_ s                                7
T!otal Liabilities Capital & Surplus  Z8,931
ASSETS:
Cash on hand and at bank               27r 52
Deposits with bank
ieposits with financial institution    3OGO
Bills discounted                          170
Advanes '2/                                Q3
PoG s:ori for doubtful debts               96)
Stock-
Trade In-estments                      ',140
Subsidiary Companies                   45,326
Fixed .ussets                             771
Toual Assets                          118,931
I/ Deposits from holding companies.
2/ Advances are short-term repayable within one year.
October 10, 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
GROUP FARMIS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Services
Ministry of Agriculture
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture has major responsibility for the provision
of agricultural services within Kenya, and it provides a wide range of services
to farmers. The Ministry is staffed with an adequate number of personnel at
the professional, technical and subordinate levels, but these staff often lack
practical experience in large-scale farming, and also suffer as a result of
the constant shifting of staff from one appointment or district to another.
In addition to the Ministry four other Ministries and 18 Statutory Boards also
provide substantial public services to farmers.
2.        Within the Ministry, the Land and Farm Management Division of the
Agricultural Department provides farm management advice to the mixed farm
sector, and also has responsibility for the soil conservation and tractor hire
services. The Training Division serves as a liaison with the Faculty of
Agriculture in Nairobi, as well as the diplomate level college at Egerton
which provides diplomate graduates with a wide range of specializations includ-
ing farm management. It also administers certificate level training at Embu
and Bukura as well as farm manager training at Thompsons Falls and Eldoret
Training Institutes. The Ministry's Department of Technical Services admin-
isters extension programs through the provincial and district staff; these
programs are formulated by provincial and district agricultural committees on
the basis of guidelines set forth by the Ministry. There are more than suf-
ficient staff detailed to extension work, but the results thus far have been
disappointing. This can be attributed partly to the fact-that the extension
advice is not integrated with an input delivery system, credit channels or
marketing facilities, and partially to the constant shifting of staff and their
lack of local experience. Several of the parastatal marketing boards (para 5)
have also been involved in extension work, and these programs - concentrating
as they do on a single commodity - have generally been considerably more
successful and effective than the more general programs. Finally, the
Department of Veterinary Services has been actively involved in attempts to
control the important livestock diseases, as well as in various aspects of
veterinary research and vaccine production.
Agricultural Research
3.        Agricultural research is dispersed among a large number of research
organizations including four units within the Ministry of Agriculture. There
is almost no effective coordination between the various programs, however,
with the result that while urgent problems in several areas are almost totally



ANNEX 3
Page 2
neglected, work in other areas is needlessly duplicated. With a few notable
exceptions, the research effort has neglected most food crops. The Kitale
and Njoro Plant Breeding stations have, however, been actively engaged in
maize and wheat research, and have succeeded in developing several new
varieties the staff also advise on disease control and good husbandry
practices.
Crop Marketing
4.        The farm cooperatives are the major channels for the processing and
marketing of certain smallholder cash crops including coffee, pyrethrum, and
dairy products. Increasingly they also provide farm inputs such as seed,
fertilizer and pesticides; short-term credit; tractor hire services; and
cattle dipping facilities. Most of the estimated 1,500 active societies are
grouped in cooperative unions on a regional and functional basis; the societies
and unions are members of the Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives (KNFC).
In addition to the smallholder farm cooperatives, there are a number of
formerly European farmer cooperatives: the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union,
Ltd. (KPCU); Kenya Cooperative Creameries, Ltd. (KCC); Kenya Farmers Association,
Ltd. (KFA); and the Horticultural Cooperative Union (HCU). Their main concern
is the processing and marketing of coffee, dairy products, and cereals and
fruits, respectively, although KFA is also the largest farm supply merchant.
The Department of Cooperative Development (DCD) of the Ministry of Cooperative
and Social Services has, however, been given broad regulatory and development
functions and participates at all levels and in all activities of the co-
operative movement. Its operations have reduced the overall responsibility
of the KNFC. While the DCD has mainly been concerned with auditing, super-
vision and control, a concerted development planning effort has also been
initiated.
5.        Farm products are marketed through a system of commercial boards,
development boards, national and local cooperatives and private industry.
The system was originally designed to serve large-scale farmers, and this
emphasis has not changed much in recent years. Statutory boards have been
established to handle the marketing of the major crops (including wheat,
maize, cotton, coffee, pyrethrum, dairy products, beef, tea), and several
of these boards have been granted monopoly powers. Both the Wheat Board and
the Maize and Produce Boards have complete control over the movement of these
grains from one district to another. The Coffee Board not only serves as the
sole marketing agent, but also provides farmers with inputs, credit and
technical advice. The Kenya Cooperative Creameries is the main marketing
agent for milk and dairy products and has a near monopoly on the sale of
fluid milk in the major cities. The Kenya Meat Commission has a monopoly
on beef exports.
Crop Prices
6.        Government exerts a strong direct influence on various crop prices.
Under the Price Control Act of 1971 (which aimed at general control of in-
flation), ceiling prices are fixed at both the wholesale and retail level for



ANNEX 3
Page 3
most commodities. In addition, prices for farm product are set by the Govern-
ment and implemented by parastatal bodies at producer, processor and retail
levels for maize, wheat, rice, sugar, milk handled by the KCC, cattle handled
by the XMC, certain minor crops marketed by the Maize and Produce Board (MPB),
cotton (except at retail), and wattle bark (to producers only). This price
intervention system can lead to abrupt changes in price relationships among
farm products. For example, farmers who were delivering milk on a non-quota
basis in May 1970 at Ksh 0.5 per gallon were receiving about Ksh 3 per gallon
in December 1972, a 500% increase.
Seed Inspection
7.        The Ministry of Agriculture operates a seed inspection service
which enforces legislation and certifies that seed offered for sale meets
legally prescribed purity and germination standards. A commercial organization,
the Kenya Seed Company (KSC), organizes the ;m-ultiplication of maize, sunflower,
and pasture seed. 1/ The Wheat Board handles wheat seed, although improvements
in the seed system for wheat were being considered in late 1972.  Under on
existing proposal the KSC would take over responsibility for wheat seed multi-
plication, as the Wheat Board has had difficulty in managing an effective
scheme. Distribution of KSC and imported seed is largely handled by the
Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA) through a network of depots and agents,
mainly in the high potential areas. Planting materials for coffee is handled
by the Coffee Board.
Farm Inputs
8.        Fertilizers are imported and distributed by private firms, with
KFA and one other firm servicing some 60% of the market. Gross imports
totalled some 130,000 tons in 1971, mainly for use on large farms for tea,
maize, coffee and wheat. Smallholder consumption of fertilizer is limited.
Government subsidies on fertilizers totalled close to.Ksh 20 million in 1971,
an amount sufficient to reduce nitrogen prices by about 10% and phosphatic
fertilizers by 30%. The subsidy was reduced in late 1972, however. The
consumption of pesticides increased from Ksh 30 million in 1968 to over Ksh
40 million in 1971. Supplies are imported mainly by subsidiaries of foreign
chemical firms, which then sell to local distributors.
9.        Tractors and combines are used on large farms, and public and
private tractor hire services are available to both large and small farms.
Seven major international firms deal in farm machinery, with two firms
handling some 70% of the total volume. These firms have exclusive franchises
or operate as a direct branch of the manufacturer. Low turnover makes nec-
essary a considerable mark-up in order to cover the cost of a reliable service
1/   The remarkable rise in the uptake of improved maize seed is largely
due to the efforts of KSC working in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture and its maize breeding staff.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
system. Machinery imports are free of customs duties, although customs and
direct taxes are paid on tractor fuel. In 1971 there were an estimated 5,000
to 5,500 tractors in use on large-scale farms.
10.       Close to 50,000 tons of compound feeds were bought by farmers in
1971, mainly for poultry. There are two large and three small firms as well
as a cooperative in the feed-mixing business. A private company is being
set up to provide a molasses-urea-mineral-phosphoric acid feed to beef and
dairy cattle farmers.
September 25, 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Farm Budgets: Mixed Farm
and Coffee Estate Models
1.        Farm models have been drawn up for both the mixed farms and the
coffee estates to be rehabilitated under the Project. The model represents
an "average" farm: each farm included in the Project would, however, be
unique and would require its own financial projections, farm policies and
plans. Only those farms would be selected which are problem farms, are
group-owned, which could be expected to be financially viable, and which had
a land/owner ratio such that each owner would have a subsistence plot plus
a cash income of not less than Ksh 400 per annum at maturity (year 11).
A. Mixed Farm Model
2.        The mixed farms to be rehabilitated under the Project would be
located in Uasin Gishu, Nakuru and Trans Nzoia Districts of Rift Valley
Province. Although there are some geographical and ecological differences
among these districts, it is not considered that they are large enough to
affect the model's application. As for example, in the Trans Nzoia District'
a farm may grow little or no wheat, but maize yields would be about 180 kg/ha
higher than the normal; supplementary crops in this area might be sunflowers
and beef cattle. Both Uasin Gishu and Nakuru Districts would more closely
approximate the model, with the wheat yields being somewhat higher in Nakuru.
At higher elevations, alternative crops such as barley and pyrethrum as well
as some sheep may be introduced; these would form only minor production ele-
ments in the mixed farming scheme, however.
3.        The Mixed Farm Model represents a 600 ha farm which, at full devel-
opment, would produce 140 ha wheat, 37 ha maize, along with dairy and beef
cattle. The land in the Rift Valley where the mixed farms would be located
is normally cropped on about a four-year crop to three-year grass rotation.
Under a loan agreement to be signed between the Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion (AFC) and the group owners of the farm, a resident farm manager satis-
factory to and on terms and conditions satisfactory to AFC would be appointed
for 5 years by the owners. A Farm Committee (comprising AFC, a Land and Farm
Managemeat Officer of the Ministry of Agriculture) would be responsible for
farm decisions.
4.        Capital investments required to ensure improved farm management
would total about Ksh 390,000 per farm (Table 2). The main items to be
purchased would be: two tractors, a pick-up truck, a baler, a seed drill,
cultivation equipment, fencing, water piping, a milk cooler, and cows and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
in-calf heifers. In addition to these investments, each farm would have
significant existing assets (financed to some extent out of their substantial
existing debt). There would also be a need for incremental working capital
during the years following the commencement of the rehabilitation effort.
5.        The higher levels of inputs and the improved management introduced
under the Project would result in substantially improved yields: wheat
yields would increase from 15 bags/ha to 20 bags/ha; maize yields from 25
to 37.5 bags/ha, and milk yields from 750 kg/cow/annum to 1,500 kg. At the
same time the cultivated area on each farm would increase from about 90 ha
to nearly 300 ha per farm. Beef production would constitute a substitute
enterprise while the dairy herd is being built up, and about 30 head would
be sold per year for about 7 years.
B. Coffee Estate Model
6.        The model coffee estate represents a run-down coffee estate of
50 ha coffee, and 65 ha of grasslands and owners' plots. Most of the farms
would be in Thika District, although several would probably be located in
Kiambu District. About three-quarters of the approximately 36 estates to
be included in the Project would be managed by East African Acceptances Ltd.
(EAM), under agreements signed between EAA, the owners and AFC. Management
of the remaining estates would be delegated to designated management companies
or to visiting agents.
7.        On-farm investments for the typical coffee estate would total about
Ksh 1.2 million. Much of this total would consist of a floating over-draft
supplied by the commercial management company which wbuld build to a high
of Rsh 0.8 million in year two of the estate cash flow (Table 11). There are
three main contributing factors to this high overdraft level: the rate of
recovery of the run-down estates, the staggered coffee payment situation,
and finally the fact that loan repayments to AFC would commence in the second
year and would be financed out of this overdraft. The staggered payment is
caused by the need for the Coffee Board to relate prices paid to farmers to
prices obtained on the world market. Grades 1 to 6 are paid on a pool basis,
with the pool year running from September 1st to August 31st. The first
payment (about 50% of expected price) is made a week after delivery, an
interim payment is made in March (or with the first payment for parchment
delivered after March), and the final payment is made at the end of the pool
year. Since coffee is on the tree for about 9 months, this means there is
an 18-month cycle from the beginning of growth to the final payment, a factor
which has important repercussions for working capital requirements. The
model has been designed to reflect this problem.
8.        Annual yields on the run-down estates would be drastically increased
from the present average of about 200 kg parchment per ha to over 2,000 kg



ANNEX 4
Page 3
per ha as a result of the Project. These improvement would result from higher
levels of inputs, irrigation and improved management practices. Required
capital investments would total about Ksh 370,000 per estate; the main items
provided would be a tractor, sprayer, pick-up truck, irrigation equipment,
and improvements to coffee factory buildings and equipment.



ANNEX 4
Page 
Draft Terms of Reference for a Large-Scale Farm Study
by Internationall Recruited Consultants
1.        The study which would commence no later than 6 months from the
date of effectiveness would review the large-scale farm eubsector in Kenya
particularly to quantify problems facing large-scale farms. It would make
recommendations to Government on the future requirements of the large-scale
subsector and as appropriate suggest means of improving its performance and
in assisting those farms in the greatest difficulties. The consultants would
be approved by IDA and their terms of reference agreed by IDA. The study
would include:
(a)   A review of the current position of the large-scale subsector
utilizing existing information and by sampling. The review
would include estimates on the following:
(i)    number of farms within each legal form of ownership,
e.g. single, partnership, company, cooperative and
the apparent effectiveness of each type of ownership
in operating the large farms;
(ii)   proportion of farms within each form of ownership
with unregistered members;
(iii)  the number of large farms considered to be serious
or moderate financial and/or debt difficulties as
defined ownership form, general locality, type of
enterprise, area of land/member etc.;
(iv)   the number of farms with serious management and
social problems and the relationship with financial
difficulties; and
(v)    the relative advantages or disadvantages of large-scale
farms as compared to small-scale farms for different
types of enterprise, e.g. coffee, wheat, maize etc.
(b)   The study would make recommendation on future policies for
large farms in general but in particular for: farms which are
presently in various difficulties but which could be potentially
viable large-scale enterpriEes in that they have sufficient area
of land that all owners could each have food plotE and. leave
a substantial area for large-scale farming; and farms where
the number of owners is such that large-scale farming would not
seem feasible under the existing situation because all or most
of the land would be required for subsistence plots.



ANNEX 4
Page 
The study would bear in mind Government's broader objectives
including self sufficiency in such items as wheat, increasing
exports, increaEing employnent and incomes in agriculture and.
equalizing incomes.  'The study would. include recommendations on:
(i)   likely future credit requirements and, policies for supplying
this cred.it;
(ii)  needs for restructuring or otherwise reducing present
debt burdenE;
(iii) Tuture need for farm managers and. the training needs for
supplying them;
(iv)  whether those farns with high ratio of owners to land. area
should be subdivided. or ownership restructured by repurchase
of some shares, etc.;
(v)   how unregistered. owners can best be legally included in
farm ownerEhip and what improvementE may be made in legal
procedures required to expedite this;
(vi) pricing policies as they affect the large-scale subsector.
(c)   The study would monitor and evaluate the early progress of the
Project and report on the initial implementation of the Project.
It would make recommendaticns on information to be collected
on a continuing basis by Project authorities and make initial
recommendations on the requirement and scope of a second Group
Farms Rehabilitation Project.
2.      The study is expected to commence by January 1, 1976 and, the consultant's
report is expected to be submitted. to the Government within about 12 months of its
commencement.



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REhABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed YArmi Mdel:  Piuicai Data
Before   It
Development    Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Thereafter
Teshnical Coefficients Livea.tek:
Calving .                                           60            65         75         75          75         75         75          75         75         75          75            75
Calving Interval (aontha)                           18            18         15         15          15         15         15         15          15         15         15             15
Calves weaned % 2/                                  55            55         70         80         80          80         80         80          80         80         80             80
Adolt mortality %                                     8            8          8          4           4          4          4           4          4          4           4             4
Cove culled ?.                                      10            10         20         20         20          20         20         20          20         20         20             20
StNoking rate - natural pasture (ha/L.U.)            2             2          2          2           2          2          2           2          2          2           2             2
Stocking rate- ley (ha/L.U.)                         1             1          1          1           1          1          1           1          1          1           1             1
Land U.e:
Unasable 10                                        60            60         60         60         60          60         60         60          60         60         60             60
UGed by  eoheras 20% 2/                            120           120        120        120        120         120        120        120         120        120        120            120
Arabi  50-% 4/                                      90           170        260        310         310        310        31C        3i          31M        310        31D            310
Rough graziog 18%                                  330           250        160        110         110        110        110        110         103       11         10            101
Total land                                         600           600        600        600        600         600        600        600         600        600        600            600
Enterprise Physical Dote:
HMctacos,  lWheat 5                                 55          110         143        143       1i4          143        143        i43         143        11$                       14,
Maire                                   L            37         37          37         37         3 30        307        37         3'          37         77             37
Ley                                     -            -          43          86        130        130         130        130        130         130        130            130
Rough grazing                          330          250         160        120        120        120        120         120        120         120        120            120
Yields:    Wheas (bog./he)                          15            20         20         20          20         20         20         20          20         20         20             20
Maiel  (bags/hb)                        25           37         37          37         37         37         37          37         37          37         37             37
Livestock NBmbers:
Bulls                                                 1            1          1           1          -          _          _           _          _           _          _
Coys                                                 20           60         89         95         104        104        108         116        122        130         140            140
Calves born                                          11           33         62         66          78         78         81          87         92         98         105            105
Heifers 1-2 years                                   15             4          8         22          27         31         31          33         35         37          39             39
Heifers 2-3 ya.ts                                    5            14          4           7         21         26         30          30         32         34          31             31
Steers 1-2 years                                      6            4          8         22          27         31         31           -          -           -          -
Steers 2-3 years                                      5            5          3          7          21         26         31          30
Membero cattle 6/                                   50            26          5          5           -
Dry Cows                                            30            15         10
Total Livestock Units                              136           129        110        143         182        196        208        197         180        187        200            200
Potential Livestock Units fron Giroing             145           130        105        145         190        190        190        190         190        190        2002.'         200 7/
Livestock Sales Physical:
Call bulls                                            -            -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -       
Cull cows                                             2           15         22          18         19         19         20          23         24          25         27             27
Sarplus heifers                                       -            -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -           -          7              7
Steers                                               5             4          2           7         21         26         30          30
Cull meobers cattle                                  24           21          -           5          -          -           -
Bull calves                                           -            -           -          -                                           33         35          37         39             39
Livestock Purchases Physical:
Milkers                                               -           20         20
Heifers in colf                                       -           20         270
Milk Production Physical:
Milk per cow par year (kg) i/                       800        1,200      1,400       1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600       1,600      1,600      1,600       1,600          1,600
Total nilk production (kg)                       1,600        72,000   124,600   152.000   166,400   166,400   172,800    185,600   195,200   208,000   224,000                  224,000
1/  Based on GAT Trans Nzoia Survey.
The  scalves weaned" persentage is a percentage of calves borm.
5/ 50h oa  land us-d by members is large scole arable loud, 50% in other loud e.g. riverbahks.  120 ho is ollowed ( I ho ouch for 120 mombers.
4/ Aroble lend csed fCr large  cale farmiog in 50. of total acreage, a further 107 of urrabl  laud it  used by members plots.
muon rotational fields arc planned of 43 ho cach, wheat = 3 o 43 ha, 00i00              1 x 43 ho, Ivy = 3 x 43 hb. .!
Msmbers cattle are individually owned low grade cattle herded over available grazing and will be removed by the owners wtoo  requested by management.
7/  A slight improvement in muogh grazing carrying capacity is aseoned.
!/  i,o gallons per lactation with a 15 months calming interval - 1,6&O kg/cow/year (350 gals.).
February 10, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed Farm Model: Capital Investment
Price             Before                                                   After                              F E.
Per Unit          Development          Year 1           Year 2            Development          Total             7.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT:
Medium Term:
Tractors (60 hp)                        60,000               (1)-               60,000              -                (1)                60,000           90
Tractors (45 hp)                        40,000              (0.5)               6                20,000              (1)                20,000           90
Disc harrow (7 foot)                     7,000               (1)                  -               7,000              (2)                 7,000            90
Maize planter (3 row)                   12,000               (1)                                    -                (1)                   -              90
Baler                                  23,000               (1)                   -              23,000                                 23,000           70
Combine Seed Drill                      20,000               (1)                  -              20,000              (2)                20,000           90
Pick-up                                 41,000                -                 41,000              -                (1)                41,000           90
Plough (3 furrow disc)                   7,000               (1)                  -               7,000              (2)                 7,000           50
Cultivator (4 row)                       5,000                -                   -               5,000              (1)                 5,000           90
Water pump                               2,500                -                                   2,500              (1)                 2,500            90
Sub-total                                                           101,000           84,500               -                185,500
Long Term:
Fencing2/                                 -                   -                  2,000            4,000               -                  6,000            30
Dairy reconstruction                      -                   -                   -               4,000               -                  4,000            20
Water piping                               -                  -                   -               7,000               -                   7,000           80
Storage tanks                             -                   -                  3,000               -                -                  3,000            20
Holding & conditioning eauip.             -                   -                   -               3 000               -                  3,000            70
Calf pens                                 -                   -                    500            1,000               -                  1,500            20
Purchased heifers                         2,000               -                 40,000           40.000               -                 80,000             -
Purchased milkers                         1,900               -                 38,000           38.000               -                  76,000            -
Troughs                                    -                  -                  1,000            1,000                                  .2,000           20
Milk cooler (im7ersion type)            15,000                -                   -              15,000               -                  15,000           90
Land clearing 3                            -                  _-                                  4,000               _                   4,000           -
Machinery sheds and haysheds               -                  -                   -               4,000               -                   4,000           20
Sub-total                       -                  -                  84,500          121,000              -                 205,500
T 0 T A L                       -                  -                 185,500          205,500              -                 391,000
1/  Figures in brackets ( ) indicate the number of items of equipment before and after.
2/ Fencing repair and construction 80 hectares @ 100/- per hectare.
3/ Land clearing by contract 40 hectares @ 100/- per hectare.
January 16, 1975
a3I
mx



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed Farm M4odel: Replacement Schedule
(Kahi)
Before                                                                                                                       F. E.
Development   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Thereafter   _%
REPLACEMENTS- 1/
Replacement of Tractors and Pick-up:
Existing                                         6,840           -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -           -
New                                                -             -         -        -         -        -    18,400    45,400  45,000   18,000           -        3i,160         90
Replacement of Other Machinery:
Existing                                         5,325         5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325             5,325         80
New                                                -             -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         5,000         80
Replacement Total                                 12,165         5 325    5,325    5,325    5,325    5,325   23,725   50,725   50,325   23,325    5,325            41,485
1/ Replacement of Tractors and Pick-up 5-7 years 10% trade-in. Other equipment 10 years 107. trade-in.
Existing eouipment is replaced at an average annual depreciation rate; new equipment is replaced
as required by life of items.
February 10, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed Fare Model. Reven.e and Variable Costs
-(K.h)
before                                                                                                                                                                                    F E
-eveloppent        Year 1         Yenr 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year_5         Year 6         Year 7          Year 8         Year 9         Year 10         Thereafter       7.
ENTERPRISE CASH REVENUE:
Crops:
Wheat          per bag)tl                81,125           81,125                       284 700        284,700        284,700        284,700        284,700        284,700         284,700        284,700        284,700
Haize ~t750 per bag)2/                   29,250           29, 250        8 7800         87,800         87,800         87,800         87.800         87,800         87,800          87,800         87,800         87,800
Sob-total                      110,375          110,375        306,800        372,500        372,500        372,500        372,500         372,500        372,500        372,500        372,500         372,500
Livestock:
Milk (-/7  nr kg)3/                      11,200           50,400         87,220        106,400        116,480        116,480        120,960        179.q07        136,640         145,600        156,800        156,800
Call COWe '700/-)                         1,400           10,500         15,400         12,600         13,300         13,300           -            16,100          16,800         17,500         18,900         18,900          -
Sorplos heiter-  (1,4,00/-)                 -                -              -              -              -              -           14,000            -              -              -             9,800          9,800
Cull b,l01o (600/-)                         -                -              -              600            -              -              -               -             -              -               -               -
St-ers (1.000/-)                          5.000            1,000          2,000          7,000         21,000         26,000         30,000         30,000            -              -               -              -
Boll calves (30/-)                          -                -              -              -              -              -              -               990          1,050          1.110          1,170          1,170
Sob-total                      17,600           64 900        104,620        126,600        150,780        155,780        164,960        177.010         154,490        164,210        186,670        186,670
T 0 T A L                     127,975          174,275        411 420        499,100        523,280        528,280        537,460        549,510         526,990        536.7,0        559,170         559,171: j
VARIABLE COSTS:
Crops:
Wheat variable c...ts                    32,250           90,500        117,500        117,500        117,500        117,500        117,500         117,500        117,500        117,500        117,500         117.500        60
m.ai7  variable  -osto5/                 15.300           42,000         42.000         42,000         42 000         42 000         42 000         42,000          42,000         42,000         42,000          42,000        60
Live-tock:
Dairy tow variable co-ts9/                1,400            6,000         14,250         16,500         18,720         18,720         19,440          20,880         21,960         23,400         25.200          25,200         5
HBifer voribhlo co.tt7/                     640            3,060          5,450          8,250         11,570         12,770          13,430         13,430         15,030         ',90            16,230         16,230         5
Steer variable  -osts8/                   1,520            1,200          2,050          3,100          4 350          2 800           1.500          1,500            -             -                -              -           5
Forago:
Establishmevt variable  0.t010              -                -           15,280         15,280         15,280          15,280         15,280         15.280         15,280         15 280          15,280         15,280        60
Mointevance variable nosts                  -                -              -               -            7,600         16,200         16,200         16,200         16,200          16,200         16,200         16,200        50
Suh-total                      51.110          14,7'W ,       196,530        202,630         217,020        225,270        225,350        226,790        227,970         230,340        232,410        232,410
1/  Price of wheat @ J')I  it farn: gate price beig K.F.A. priva leto 50  -etc  per lbag transport.Tnis to ol1f  f trhe tranteort rott; it in assumned
the other half in transpor-ed by farm tractor  bhich to already allowed for in the high tractors hooo ersltaroe  The  P.F.A. price ( 70/- it na-ed and
assures oe average of Grade 27.
2/ Maize pei, - s obtained in the nave way as  bhat price but a 1/- average K.F.A  commission has alto bean dodu-ted
3/  Milk @ -/7   -  kg            ap-isi    for transport.
Wheat -a.iaole -ots@       */- p-r h-vL-r before devel.pment rising toL.        - in i ear 1 
5/ M      variable  -ott C 7 5/- per hectare before develop-ent risinig C ' ,1 h/- in  - l
6/ Dairy cow va-lable toots Id 70/- per  -on before d-velopmeet riing L. 180:- in vear I = 100/-, Year 2 = 150/-, Yer 3   180/-.
2/  Heif-r variable  -osts @ 40/- per hbif-r increasing to 133/- io Year 1.
8/  Steer variable nosts @ 20/- per head increaaing to 50/- in Year 1.
2/  Forage establ iohb-t costs 355/- per he-tarr   Maintenance cants 186/- per hectare .
iebruary Iu, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed Farm Model: FiXed Costs
(Kah)
Be fore                                                                                                                                                  F. E.
Development    Year I        Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8       Year 9      Year 10    Thereafter          %
FIXED COST EXPENSES:
Tractor Fuel and Repairs (14.00
per hour):
Wheat 1/                             12,650          25,20e      52,730      32,750      32,750      32,750      32 750      32,750      32,750       32,750      32,750       32,750         60
Maize 2/                              5,600          12,000      12,000      12,000      12,000      12,000      12 000      12,000      12,000       12,000      12,000       12,000         60
Ley 3/                                   -              -         3,700       7,550      10,650      10:650      10,650      10:650      10,650       10,650      10,650       10,650         60
General 4/                            1.              3,2,750     3i750       3750        3   0       3,750       3,750       3,750        3,750       3,750       3,750        3,750         60
Sub-total                 19,500          40,950      52,200      56,050      59,150      59,150      59,150      59,150       59,150      59,150      59,150       59,150
Repaira:
Repairs to machinery (@107% of
value excl. tractor and
pick-up)                           3,870          4,850       7,950       9,750       9,750       9,750       9,750       9,750        9,750       9,750       9,750        9,750          60
Pick-up fuel and repairs @-/50 mile  -               5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000        5,000      5,000        5,000       5,000       5,000         5,000         60
Repairs to fixed equipment/build-
ings @ 5% of value                 1,500          2,410       3,570       6,095       6,095       6,095       6,095       6,095        6,095       6,095       6,095        6,095          30
Miscellaneous, clerk, water, etc.  9        ,000    10,000      10,000       10,000      10,000      10 ,000     10,000        10,000      10,000      10,000    1     0          000          5
Labor: 5/       Sub-total                  14,370         22,260      26,520      30,845      30,845      30,845      30,845      30,845      30,845       30,845      30,845       30,845
Wheat 6/                              3,900          7,100        9,100       9,100       9,100       9,100       9,100       9,100       9,100       9,100        9,100        9,100
Maize 7/                              3,800          8,170       8.170       8,170        8,170       8,170       8,170       8,170       8,170       8,170        8,170        8,170
Dairy and ley establishment 8/        1,920          5,760       8,544        9,120       9,984       9,984      10,368      11,136      11,712      12,480       13,440       13,440
Steers 9/                               198             144         16?         162         864       1,026         540         540              -            -                  -
General 10/                           5,400          5,400       5.400       5,400        5.400       5.400       5,400       5,400       5,400       5,400        5.400        5.400
Sub-total                 15,218         26,574      31 382      31,952       33,518      33,680      33,578      34,346      34,382      35,150       36,110       36,110
Labor with wage increases:  11/            15,218         26,574      34,520      38,346      43.573      43,784      43X649      44,648       44,696      45.695      46.943        46,943
.:anagement Coats                          44,000         24,000      24,000      24 000      24,000       24,000      24,000      24,000      24,000      24,000       24,000       24,000
Total Fixed Costs                          53,088        113,784    137.240    149 241    157,568    15,/,79    151,644    158,644    158,691    159,690    10,938                 160,938
1/  Tractor houos wheat 1'! hrs/ha (midway part between CAT and Ministry of Agriculture Survey).
2/  Tractor hours maize 23 hrs/ha.
3/  Cractor hours ley 12 hrs/ha in year 2, 7 1/3 hrs in year 3, 6 hrs thereafter (rounded).
4/ Tractor hrs general (% hr/ha).
5/  Labor costs per man-day depend on the proportion of skilled labor required for the enterprise.
6/  Wheat labor  R man-day per ha @ 7/- per man-day
7/ Maize labor .1g man-days per ha @5 5/- per man-day
8/ Dairy and ley labor 32 marn-days per cow (r 3/- per man-day.
9/  Steer labor 6 man-days per head @ 3/- per man-day.
10!  reneral labor 3 man-days per ha 9 3/- per mao-day.
11/  Labor increase allowed 10,! for 3 years.
ai.



CCCIX 4
Table 6
C   a        a  'Ca
-    a 'l-* ,,,,,a'aa  a
a                  a   a         a  a a                  a  a  a  a  a  a
a                  a   a'        a    a                              '0     a
-                  a   a         a  aa          a         a  a  -  a  a  a
aa
a, a,
a                  a   a        a'  a a         a,       a  a  a  a  a  a
a                  a'  a        a    a,                      a  a  a         a
a                      a         a  a           a         a  a       a  -  a
a              '   ,  a          a  a           a
a        a,                    ,  a  a  a  a  a  a
a                      a         a  a           a
a                      a         a              a            a   a  a  a  a
a        a                            a   a          a
a        a  a,a         a         a  a  a  a  a  a
a                                a, a a         a         a  a  a  a  a  a
*    a        a  a,a   ' ,  a,         a  a  a  '0  a  a
'a a a 'Ca 'C C' a a a a a
a                      a,        a    -         a            a,  a  a  a,  a
a        a  a, a        a         a  a  a  a  a  a
a                      a         a  a a         a
a        a         ,    a        , a  a   -  a  a  a
a                  -ala          a  a a,        a        a  a  a  a  a  a
a                  "'a           a    a         a
a                  aja           a                           a
a                  42            a: a    a a
    aa aa,aaa,a
a a' , , a a
Cia          a,   a,       'C a       a  a  a  a  a  a
'a                 -a-I               a           -.
aaa ' ' aa aiaa a a, a a a
aaaaaaaaa
a                  a  a          a  aa         aa   ala   a  a  a  a  a
a                   -            -   -    -
a                  a  a         a  ">a          a   a, a   a  a  a  a,  a,
H              a                       a,       a    -         a a
a                          a    a         a  a,           a a  aaa   a   a  a                    a
a                a    a          a  a,          aa   aa'0   a   a  a
a    a,        a  a, ' ' ,    a a  a a a   a,  a  a
a                a,   a,        a, a,           a   aaa   a  a  a
a                      a,       a               a a  a,      a  a  -
a     a        a  a,           a a  aaa   a  a  a
a                -    a          a  a           a   aa0  a  a  a
I 'a     a         a,  a,   ' '  aa   -a,'   a  a  a
a                a     a        a  'C           a,a   aaal  a  a  a
a                a    IC        a              a   a    I a,
a:
a,a   a         -  a,                           a  a                aa
a                a     a         a  a           a   a'aa     a  a
a          '       a  a         a           '  a   aa    -  -  -
a               aa   a,         a  a            Ca   ma&  a  a  a
a               a      a        a               aa   a,      a
a-                     a,        a,                   a       a,
Ca   aa   a          a  a  aa       aa   aa 2  a  a  a                    Cal
a    aa aa a    aaaaaC'aaCia a a                                                               aaa
aa,  a-a   a         a  a,'a  -'  aa,   aa,    a  a  a
a                                                          I
C            aa,.-a             a,a,aaaaa  ai a a -C
a          aa   a,a             a,      aa            --                                      a,aa
aaaaa                a a aaa                       - a a                  ala  -aaa
a          aaa-a  a;             - a  aap                     - a  a                 a a a  aa a
aaaa                     a  a,aa.   ' '   '   '       a  a   '  I         aaa   a  a"
a          a- a-*,                  a,  aaa                      a  a                a a a  a   -
a          aa aol               -,      aaa                ,  -                      a aa   aaaa
a"           ...a-CI  n          a        a-                                           a..   a  a,.
Ca,. Caa '01
-       I                             -                       0-'laa   -C
ala CCO
a              -alaa..a   a               a                          'aaC-aaC'a
aa           a  a     alaC    a'           a                          aa.ala   aa
ala            C  a  a  aal-C   a,'a    aa            I  a  a   a        CeCal
Cl             I  -  a  -aa>    11.-a,'                                  alCOa         a
Ca a           a'      a aa aa a  a .aa I a -                             a'  a-ab' aca
a  all             a   ala.'aa'ala.aaa,'aaa                                   laaazsaa,'                 a
,? 
C CC 'aaaaaaaaa-aa
-Ia        '0a,al   la-Cal--ba                                      Ca   aa,
- .. Ca'0aaraaaaa.ao                                      aCaCaC  a
CC-Cal         'a  a  'a   aC'Claa            a                           laa..laa                   6,
a  lalal           a'  a  a    CCa.'0             a                          ICa,   aaaa                 C
C  labIa           C  a  a    Cola                -       a  a  a  -           a.-aaaaa                  a
a  ,'0a.aa         -  a  H    aba                 a.                                                     a
IC                                                        a  a  a  a         .-Ca,a,.a.a,a,  a,          a



ANNEX 4
Table 7
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Variable Cost Details
(Ksh)
Variable costs are defined as costs which are specific to the
enterprise and vary in proportion to the size of the enterprise e.g. for
crops:  fertilizer, seed, sprays, contract work; for livestock:  concen-
trates, vet and med.
Fixed costs are costs that do not vary with small changes in
the size of an enterprise e.g. labor, machinery, general overheads.
1975 EEtiateE
Cropping Season
(Apr. thru Dec.)
Maize
Variable Costs:  Seed                               80
Insecticides                                    33
Herbicides                                      30
Fertilizer                                      940
Miscellaneous                                   LO
Total variable costE                            1,125
Wheat
Variable Costs:  Seed                              140
Herbicides                                       30
Fertilizer                                     51c
Contract harvest                               140
Miscellaneous                                   20
Totaal variable coEtE                              840
Forage
Ley Establishment
Variable Costs:- Seed                              :S6 
Fertilizer                                      21(
Miscellaneous                                    10
Total variable costs per hectare                   380
FebruarY 7, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 7
Page 2
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Variable Cost Details (Cont'd)
1975^
Ley Maintenance
Variable costs:
Fertilizer A.S.N. 160 kg                               186
Dairy Cows
Variable costs:- Concentrates                             130
Minerals                                                25
Vet and Dip                                             22
Miscellaneous                                            3
Total variable costs per head                             180
NOTE: Dairy cow variable costs assume good pastures are available.
A baler is budgeted for to allow adequate conservation.  Pasture and
conserved fodder is expected to give 4.56 kg (1 gal.) milk per day. With
a 300 day lactation at 1825 kg (400 gal.) and a 15 month calving interval
= 1,600 kg (350 gal.) per annum.
Average production = 6.84 kg milk per day of which 4.56 kg (1 gal.)
is from grass . . 2.28 kg milk requires concentrates at 1 kg per 3.25 kg
milk produced . . 0.71 kg required per cow per milking day.
Concentrates cost .75w per kg.
per cow per annum concentrate costs.
300 x 0.71 x 0.7 x 0.8 - 128.25
Say 130



ANNEX X
Table 7
Page 3
KENYA
GROUP FARYIS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Variable Cost DetailE (Cont'd)
1975
Heifere
Variable costs:  W4hole milk (115 kg)               80
Skim milk (500 kg)                              175
Weaner pelletE (50 kg)                           52
Calf pencils                                     83
Supplement meal (190 kg)                         65
Minerali                                         25
Dip and Vet                                      90
Mireellaneous                                     7
Total Variable CostE                                577
(NOTE: The above costs are for a 3-year period. Average per year iF
the;reore 133/-. The price of skim milk only 6 per kg becauEe K.C.C.
sell it at thi's low price to farmers supplyin- them with whole milk.  This
will probably not continue unless the volume of milk being produced remain-
high. A higher skim milk price has therefore been assumed for 1975).
Steers
Variable costE:  Dip and Vet                        20
Minerals                                         15
Miscellaneour                                    15
Total Jariable CoatE                                50



ANNEX 4
Table 8
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mixed Farm Model:   Crop Costs and Reveaues
(Ksh)
Wheat (at 20 bag/ha level)
Variable costs (Table 7)                 8h0
Fixed costs (machinery)                  21.O
Labor costs                               65
1,145
Gross revenue = i"9 LO
Maize
Variable costs (Table 7)               1,125
Fixed costs (machinery)                  320
Labor costs                              23 
1,680
Gross revenue = 2,380
1/ Excluding managerial and overhead costs.



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Coffee Kstate Model:   Yields, Production and Prices
Before            e-ar t     Year 2    Year 3    Tear h    Year 5    Year 6
Development
Yields (kg/ha)
Standards 1-5                               80               500      1,200      1,600     i,60o     1,6oo      1,600
Standards 6-1o                             1po               500         800       400       400        4o00     2-4oo
Total                                   200             1,000       2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000      2,000
Production (Tons)
Standards 1-5                                4                25          60        80        80         80        80
Standards 6-10                               6                25          40        20        20         20        20
Total                                    10                50         100       100       100        100       100
International Price (clean coffee)
Guatemalan, spot New York 21
US//lb                                    72                72          80        72        70         65        65
Kf/Ton                                   566               566         629       566       550        511       511
Kenyan, F.Q.B. Mombasa
Kf/Ton 1                                 540 2             540         600       540       525        490       490
Ksh/kg                                  10.8              10.8        12.0      10.8      10.5        9.8       9.8
Producer Price (Ksh/kg clean coffee)
Standards 1-5                             11.1 I            11.1        12.3      11.1      10.8       lO.B      10.1
Standards 6-10                             7.0  /            7.8         7.8       7.0       6.8        6.4       6.4
Gross Value of Production(Ksh'000)
Standards 1-5                             44.4               290.0       738.o     888.0     864.o      808.0     808.0
Standards 6-10                            42.0               182.5       312.0     140.0      136.0     128.0     128.0
Total                                  86.4               472.5    1,050.0   1,028.0   1,000.0       936.o      936.o
2 IBRD Projections, December, 1974.
2/ 1974 prices based on Kenya Coffee Board's projections. For following years, prices have been adjusted
on basis of 1974 ratio.
February 14, 1975



poblo 10
Coffe  B.9.. Moel. ta-ist  eM  Ph.d Costa
Foroig.
TF- actor45 H.,                          40,000                       1              2                         0.                                              35.0                                             35.0                  goC
-  YrpOO                                 14504 C2  5                                                                                                                                        13.0                                       90%
T-il- OT)                  11                       1~ ~~~~~~~~ Cos                          0.0
- PICcOOK                      ~~~~~~~~~~41.0-                              1                       41.0                                             BC2                                               32.0                  300
- Bpl-oooo  of CooOicg
EqlVeot* 5/                                                                                         S         8.0         oK      O.K       O.o      8.K       0,0       O.o       O.K       O.o      O.K      14 0      O.K          300
Total 0002i0 CTe                                                                                       O.K    112.5       5.0       8.K       0.o      O.   7.0            0.0        0 Y    02      .0 O        5K .c      O.K
Icoogucooc O-vireoot           O.000'rs 3-3,-                      ro   -c s.1                              00660       -        -         -         -         -         -        -                   -      152 0          7 01
- Yff-o Co   dn  0  Ovildcogo            SYKO                         -                                       0     -                       -         -         -         -         -  -                                   -           5 %
Oher coloog                                                          -         Kit ooaK                                45.0                                                                                                           COO
--slcoc    feiotivobOtlg                                                                     O.K       O.K       S.C       O.K       0..      O.o       8.o       0.0      O.K       B..       O.0       S..      0.0          00%
Total togTor                                                                                           0.      60.08 2190           00.       S.C       O.       O.K       O.        O.        0.Ro      a K      O.K    05800
H.)..   100 _0                   K,1K/                    itO kg/ha    220 kg/ho              6.7     23 0      23.5      23 0      23 0     20.3      23.0      23.3      03.3      23.3~    2,3 51    20.       23 3          80
0.0 K. (0.81/c, 10/C, 7-K/C)             :,530/                                20 C kKC/I            -       2.         5         0       20        0.         50       00        003      2.         53       2. 25.3                80K
cooo.o-o                        Yc~~~~~~~~~~~~7/s         -         KS/Ca                -        2.5       cO..       :        -         -         - 
C~~jKe hol-id                            CO/kg                        -30 4g/305                               31003                       30.      003       30.       08        30.      303        38.3     30.0      00.3         0%
Cotaoo                                  ~kS/g                        -         KYkg0'bt                       6 S.      6.3      6S.o      0.0       63        0.3       6.g3      6.3      6.0       6.3       0.0       6.3         00%
Kr- -co                               40.4/1                                   6   /o                         26       t..       0.       l2S       22.4      i.2.4     28.4     i2.4      08.4      22.4      io4        2.4         500
lsrlkcldoo                                                         S~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.7    130.0    130.  224.4    oth.  214.4   2114.1  14  1144   4.4    2~4A i4.4 it.  4,.4    t4.4
-rlaloYcal   ots               Sot/Ia-                                                                         -        30.0      30.0     30.Y      30.0      30.0      30.0      3. 30       .i     32.0 30.0              100.
rOckloc Costs Si               0~~~~~~~~53/c of oCerrs  50.0 Tcos    568.0 7-o             t4.g      74.4    140.S    148.K    i48.8    I.40.8    140.8    148.0   12480    t40.l    148.8    140.8    148.8 
Carton' Coats                   00K~~~~~~~S./C of pac-et  11.0 Coo    210.0 Coo             3.4      47.1      34.1     34.2      94.1      34.2      94.o     34.1      94.0.     04.1      g4.t      g4o      g4.i          301
laos  0/                      3 S/lag                  oos Kogo      0,3~3  las           0.0       4.1       8.   0.2            S.c      0.o  8.2            0.0  8.2           0.2  0.2  0, .0               0.2         503
Ccaoaooot Claroo2/  0 95/tag    0/  235 lego       2,353 loge           o.S       0.0       5.7      5.7       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.7       5.0      S.C       5.05 7o5.7K5       5.07  5 7-5.
eto' to   P.C.0'.                    1/4% oftotol vau-00    2 .2                                                     2.0       o.6      2.5       0.3       0.3       0.3       2.3      0.3       0.0       0.3       2.3-
Ccat   trlC-occ1                        30o  ttlcsK                                                    6 .   o4.o      31.      30.0      3K00      00.4      j  c0      80.0    28.1      cO.       o0.t               28.10..-
kiltiol Ylacsaa-atao0sr~~~~~t ~~  COO/p oleac coffee                       0.5       3.4      0.1      10.1      10.0     12.0      08.0      20.8      io.0     to.0      io.0      08.0 1BY.  80 8    -lo  10.
avod   o-S  gl/  cosoorr                                                 .       75       1-.        6.o       6 .0       .       06        0.        6.        S.o      6.        6.c       6.0,
-  20  oaa.o.                          C4,03/ye-                                                            04.0      24.o     24.0      24.K  .o           o  4.K    24.K      04.4     04.2      o4.0      c4.o      R4.o
- 7'o-otY- bo-c                        O5/T ole-  -ffeo                                                      3.5       0.5       0.5      7.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       7.5      0.5       7.S       0.5       7.5
- flt obar-                            t,S/t2.0                                                                       5.0.      028      5K 52.0   5          0.0      50.K 52     .02:   50.       SC.0      51.       50.0-
- Froporoiooal claros         t~~~~~-0/cg of  7rs   rc                                               .0      20.0     24         5.0      24.o      14.8      1..O'    04.       tl.o      34.0      14.0     0.4.0o
Total Koiale Cot                                                                                      37.5    3Wi.    543.2    3550-    l4830.   5403 9    545.9   3545.           35954 .9   3556 39545 39/6.0    530.2 -2
JTIOTSOO0/0%O8o.2  7,SOK/o'sas                4              2               0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75  7.5  7.  7.50 75 .5  0      705     705        0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5           -
- raooorp Foroac  h,30K/pea              1              2               4.o       4.0        .0      4.0       4.o       4.0        4.      4.        4.v       4.o       4.o       4.o ..
- osoloolo              S,oYK/yeor                   ~       ~      ~     ~    ~ ~~~~         ~~~~~~ ~~~~1 0.S.  5.  .       .        5.0       .0       5.0       5.Y       5.0       5.K       0.0      5.0          -
- Scorer                2,50K/rear                    2      ~      ~       ~       ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~           ~~~~ 2  0.  2.5  2.5  .5 05  0.  25  2.5    C.        2 .5     0.5       0.5       0.0 
- Oterk                        ~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~3,0Y/Ia    0.        3.0       0.        K.           0     3.0       0.0       3.K       3.0      3.0       3.Y      ,J:51~
- Korkosa                      l,SYK/o.aos                  05             75              IK1Y6  4  4Kv       5.        0         00       5. 5       8.0     56.       50.       56.0
-  Oo  SKor  -costOt                   5   raota   aao                                            9.0       9.3      01.07      2. 1     0.0-    12,7       0.17      21.0     22.0      08.7      22.7      11.0      1.0 
lot-total lao   cOSlros0.                                                                                     1.        ..       0gd     LSg.       O~.7o     0.0       09.7      89.7     89.7      89.7      89.7      89.7
Craotor  2'                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15.0  3.0  00.  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0     30.      00.0      30.0      30.0         6.
Oloi-op 020                                                              -        ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~    ~~~~ ~           ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~2.7  0.0  57.2   2.0 5.  7.  7.  7  .  5
DOie  Boriosbloro    /              40.                                                                                 2.72       .         .7      00          .        .05      0.0       0.0       . 
140 013~50                                                                                                                                         .0       0.5      2.0       0.5       0.5      0.5         300
Irolca saltes,Caooos0..gulslago                                          -         0.5      2.5       2.5       0.0       0.5      i.5      05.0      15.0      20.0      15.0     20.0      15.0         60% 0  0    15 0  5 0  1   0  60
Orerleods                    '~~~~~~~~~~0/ta                                               3.5      3.0       0.0       3.5       3.5      3.0       3.5       3.5       3.5       0.5      3.3       3.0       3.5
otO-totaK  0or-tloo a - Olt-csc                                                                    1.5       L30 -7       j      /5 .     52f-      50.                 57       /2         5z       3O         00       5
Colat     - Cio9o Coats                                                                             .3,                  IL.   1548 4    jl6.4    140.4   oIV.4    140.4    148.4    1.48 4    148.4    0.60 4    048.4
T0001 ClOTS                                                                                           143.0    600.3    35.0    004.7    710.4    720 30         77 70.03    71003    710 3    720.3    010.0    791.3    060.3
.1  .-otra  20 ..Or.  . . -. Y                    .0.,Ib.)1             h  8-t.              -    h -f-p,-..t
(PsI 0.8o goPOsbieO.  This asa-    tlot 1,3000 ogf oat  plrre  go-c  80K,g of laol-pt, ovi~, to toy,podco   go of cleo  -oreaso  tblt
550 Otblis  of oat   -i..le    - -r,soo  to  v  000  f   -holoet.
3/50  0ksgs o. f ot--ost.
5/  oo  Oft000           it' Aceoace  I tie   oooaeoao  agcsv    figures.                           9-           .-dd.
~forg    P1,00  Icha pop  ea  at Kh 08.0/hoop
//irAge. oC OC,KOO ats/CY-  it Koh 0.50/cole.
0.3  Atoo  dat op i0% of lCiai~i~. lost-stzoct.
OoA-1Cot v  SO o  lotial  -coeo-t Cot.
Ievosr   019 i7



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REhABILITATION PROJECT
Coffee Estate Model: Cash Flow
(Ksh' 000)
Ye.r I       Year 2      Your 3       Y-ec 4       Year 5       Yeor 6       Year 7       Yeor 8       Your 9       Yeor 10       Year 11        Yeor 12       Year 13-16      Year 17       Thereafter
Source of Fundo
Long-toe-  loans                         55 5          211.0        -            -           -             -
Medium-torn loavo                       104.5                                                              -                   -
Previono dehte loon                     300.0
Floating 9verdraft                      426.1          737.9      564.0       39R.9         246.5        214.6       110 0         20 0
Revenuler..                              86.4          472.5   1,050.0      1,028 0      1,000.0        936. 0        936         936.06       .0 .0        936.0         936.0          93       6.0           936.0  936.0
Totl1                       972.5        1,421 4   1,614.0       1 426.9      1,246.5      1,150.6      1,046.0        956 0       936.0        936.0          936.0         936.0           936.0         936.0            936 0
Applination of Fuods
Operating Exponse 
- naciablo -oots                        380.5          549.2     550.3        549.0        545.9        545.9        045.9        545.9        545.9        545.9         545.9          545.9           545.0         545.9           54Y.9
- fied costs                            115 0          133.4     148.4        148.4        148.4        148.4        148.4        148.4        148.4        148.4         148.4          148.4           148.4         148.4           148 4
Capitol Replaermernt
- exicning machinery                      8.0            Y 0        8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0         80           8.0          8.0          0.0            8.0           0.0             8.0           81 0.0
- new machinery                            -             -          -            -           -           67.0          -            -           13.0         70 0          81 0          80 0             ?0 0          30.0            30.0
- buildirgs                               8.0            4.0        8.0          8.0         8.0           8.0         80           80           8.0          8.0           8.0            8.0             8.0           8 0              8.0
Long-tcer  icunoenent                       55 5          211.0        -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -              -             -               -             -
edium-terr i-nestrent                      104.5
Repayment previou  debt (Year 1)           300.0            -          -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -              -             -               -
Debt service
_ long-term  (85y - 9%)                    -             5.6      33 0         33.0          33.0        33 0         33 0         33 0         33.0         33.0          33 0           33 0            33 0
-medium-tcrn (7y - 92)                     -             9 3       26.7         26.7         26.7         26.7         26.7
- Flotirg overdraft
- capital)'                                -           426.1     737.9        564.0        398,9        246.5        214.6        110.0         20.0          -              -             -               -             -
-intrest IO1_                            -            36.5      63.7         46.3         34.6         19.1          9.4         10 0          1.6
P-eYious debts loon (15y)                -            32.2      32 2         32.2          32.2         32.2         32.2        32 2         32.2         32.2          32.2           32.2            32.2           -
Ta.. tiun                                                   -          -                         -            -                          .6         63.2        35.2           55.7          55.7            55.2          63.2             65.7
Total                        971.5        1,419.5   1,608.2       1 415.6      1 ,235.7     1,134.8      1,026.2        913.1        873 3       900.7          911.2         910.2           860.7         803 5            804.0
Surplus paid ti  nehbers_                    1.0            1.9        5.8         11.3         10.8         15.8         19 8        42.9         62.7         35.3           24.8          25.8            75.3         132.5            130.0
1/ For orr.unting purposes, it in assnmed thor roffee io mold ot th  h                  othe year following the growing year
2/ A one year lag is assumed betee.n tho tine onerdr-ft money id drawn and the tine it id repaid.
3/ Anenol  orte charged by Efst Afric-n Acceptanoes.  Interest is charged for 9-10 months each year beranse most inputs ho-e to be av3ilable
early in tho groming season.
4' Increasing from Ksh 20 per mehber (average of 50 members per estaer) in Year I to abuct Ksh 400 per menber in Year 7 end
e_cal to net  revenues thoreafter.  RN reserves were assumed ac-umuleced as additional cash roenired to meet unforeseen
rl_,ctuatfonm could be es_ily covered by nnerdraft.
January 31, 1975



KENIYA
OQOUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return on Model Farms
Year              Year 1           Year  2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8        Year 9      Year 10    Year 11-19    Year 20
Mixed Fams
Incremental Production           46.3           283.4        371.1         395.3        400.3        409.5        421.3         399.0        408.7         431.2        431.2        611.21/
Incremental Operating Costs (142.4)            (219.7)      (237.7)      (260.5)       (279.0)      (280.8)      (281.3)       (282.5)      (285.9)      (289.2)       (289,2)      (289.2)
Capital Investments            (185.5)         (205.5)         -            -                        (18.4)        (45.4)       (45.0)       (18.0)                     (36.2)       (36.2)
Net Incremental Flow           (281.6)         (141.8)        133.4        134.8        121.3        110.3          94.6         71.5        104.8         142.0        105.8        295.8
Financial Rate of Return           24%
Coffee Estates
Incremental Production             -            386.1         963.6        941'i6       9.1.3.6      849.6         849.6        849.6        849.6         849.6        849.6        849.6
Incremental Operating Cost    (368.2)          (555.3)      (571.4)       (570.1)      (567.0)      (567.0)       (567.0)      (567.0)      (567.0)       (567.0)      (567.0)      (567.0)
Capital Investments              (160.0)       (211.0)                                               (67.0)                                  (13-0)                     (30.0)        (30-0)
(528.2)       (380.2)       392.2        371.5         346.6        215.6        282.6        282.6         269.6        282.6         252.6        252.6
Financial Rate of Return           30%
1/ Includes value of herd in year 20
February 14, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARM REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost
(Ksh'OOO)
Year 1              Year 2            Year 3              Year 4              Year 5                  Total
A.  ON FARM  INVSTMENTS                           Total      F.E     Total      F.E     Total      FoE      Total      F.E       Total       F.E.       Total      F E.
Mixed Farms (90)
Machinery and Equipment               1,414   1,244      3,657    3,217    5,184    4,562    5,498        4,837      2,562      2,255       18,315   16,115
Buildings                                 7        1       137        27      213        42       273        55        225         45          685      170
Fencing Piping and Land Clearing         84       49       356       206      526       304       614       355        400        232       1,980      1 1146
Livestock                             1,092              2,808              3,978               4,212                1,950                114,040
Incremental Working Capital           2 119   1 060      3,179    1 590   14,238    2,118    3 708        1,854         -          -       13 244    6 222
Sub-Total                                 2,354    10,137    5,040    14,139    7,026   1             7,101      5,137     2,532       44 
Coffee Estates(36)
Machinery and Equipment                 941      725     2,435    1,875    2,435    1,875    2,435        1,875      1,494      1,150        9,740    7,500
Buildings                               500      185       905       335      905       335       905       335        4o5        150        3,620    1,340
Incremental Working Capital           4,061   1,186      7 079    1 968    7 079    1 968    7i07  1,968             3,018        784      28,316    7 814
Sub-Total                 5        2 2096    10           ,     1                                      17       4,9178 10,419  1      4,17  2
Total On-Farm Investments       10,218   4,45o    20,556    9,218   24,558   11,204   24,724    11,279    10,054          4,616       90,110   40,767
B.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND TECHNICAL
SERVICES
AFC Headquarters                      1,650      615     1,820       680    1,630       608    1,630        608      1,630        608        8,360    3,119
Ministry of Agriculture                 362       28       362        28       362       28       362         28       362         27        1,810       139
Resident Manager's Training             220      -         395        -       550        -         -          -         -          -         1,165       -
Large Farm Sector Study                 220      177       220       177       67        54        67        54         67                     641      515
Total (B)                        2,452     820      2,797              2,609        90    2,059        690      2,059         618 8    197       3,773
Total Base Cost                 12,670   5,270    23,353   10,103   27,167   11,894   26,783    11,969    12,113          5,304      102,086   44,54o
Physical Contingencies(10%)  1,269       527      2 335    1 010    2 717    1 189    2,678        1 197      1 211       527       10 210    4 450
Sub-Total                        13,939  25,7          60 TT                   2 9,884 13,083   29,461 1316 1 3,34         5,;31      112,296 4,9
Price Contingencies
(12% p.a)           2,231     928      7,700    3,331   13,590    5,950   18,550        8,290    11,423       4,871          494   23,370
Total Project Costs             1        6,725    33,38843,74   19,033                         1    21,456               10,702      165
February  14, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Staffing Requirements and Costs
(Ksh. '000)
Foreign
Exchange
Year 1                    Year 2                     Year 3                    Year 4                     Year 5                Component
Number        Costs       Number        Costs        Number        Costs        Number        Costs        Number        Costs              7%
GROUP FARM SECTION AGRICULTURAL
FINANCE CORPORATION
Project Manager 3/                                        1            100          1            100           1            100           1            100           1            100            90
Deputy Project Manager                                    -            -             1            70           1             70           1             70           1             70             -
Accountant !/                                             1             50           1             50          1             50           1             50           1             50
Systems Consultant                                        1            120          1            120           -            -             -            -             -            -               -
Bookeeper                                                 1             30          2             60           2             60           2             60           2             60             -
SecreCarial Staff                                         1             20           2            40           2             40           2             40           2             40             -
Clerks                                                    4             48          4             48           4             48           4             48           4             48             -
Group Managers 31                                        4             320          4            320           4            320           4            320           4            320            90
Group Managers (under training)                           -            -             2           100           2            100           2            100           2            100             -
Travelling Expenses
Senior Staff @ Ksh 24,000 (incl. Ksh 12,00O#j5   7                    168          8            192           7            168           7            168           7            168            80
Other Staff @ Ksh 4,000 plus Ksh 20,000 training) 6                     44          8             52           8             52           8             52           8             52
House Allowance for Senior Staff @ Ksh 40,000             7            280          8            320           7            280           7            280           7            280
House Allowance for Junior Staff @ Ksh 6,000              6             36          8             48           8             48           8             48           8             48
Furniture @ Ksh 20,000 on Appointment for
Senior Staff                                        7            140           -           -             -            -             -            -             -            -
Medical Allowance 4 Ksh 2,000                            13             26         16             32          15             30          15             30          15             30              -
Office Expenses                                           -           268            _           2                                        -9  -                                _264               55
Sub-Total:                                  1,650                      1,820                     1,630                       1,630                     1,630
Resident Farm Managers (under training)                  44            220          79           395         110            550
Sub-Total:                                    540                     1,195                      1,990                      2,000                      2,000
21
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Headquarters, L & FM Coordinator                          1             70           1             70          1             70           1              70           1             70
Rift Valley, Regional L & FM Qfficer (Training)   1                     70           1             70          1             70           1             70            1             70
3 Districts, L & FM Officers  /                           3            162          3            162           3            162           3            162           3            162              -
Travelling Expenses 4 Ksh 12,000 each (Ministry
supplying vehicles)                                               6 -A         5             60           5
5  60           5             ~~~~~50        50
Sub-Total:                                    362                        362                       362                         362                        362
Resident Fart Managers (under training)                  40            220          74            395        100            550            -             -            -
Total Staff Costing                                               2.232                      2*577                      2,542                      1.992                      1.992
GRAND TOTAL:                                                                                                                                          r1.13 35
1/  Accountant full cost of lower level or part cost of experienced accountant who would also assist other sections of AFC.                                                                                        Li
2/ 50I added to Ministry salary scale for fringe benefits, rent, etc.
3/ Internationally recruited.
February 7, 1975



ANNEX 6
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Financing
(Ksh '000)
Govt. or
Coffee
AFC/           Management
IDA        %    50ovt.     %    Companies      %   Total
On-Farm Investments:
Mixed FarmF
Long and medium-term            28,150      80    7,040    20        _              35,190
Incremental working capital    10,595       80    2         20       -              13,244
Sub-total         38,745      80    9,689    20        -              48,434
Coffee Eetates
Long and medium-term            10,690      80    2,670    20      21,237           13,360
Incremental working capital      5,663      20    1,416      5       -        7     28,316
Sub-total          16,353     39    4,086    10      21,237    51    63,015
Project Administration
Technical Services
AFC                              6,690      80    1,670    20        -               8,360
Ministry of Agriculture          2,380      80      595    20        -               2,975
Large Farm Sector Study             577     90       64    10        -              -  641
Sub-total           9,647     81    2,329    19         -             28,635
Total         64,745           16,104            21,237          102,086
Physical Contingencies           6,475            1,610             2,125           10,210
Price Contingencies             3593              8,776             8,788    _      53,494
Total       107,150      65   26,490    16      32,150    19   165,790
US$ Equivalent                    15.0             3.7               4.5             23.2
February 7, 1975



ANNEX 7
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$ 000)
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End           Quarterly          Cumulative
Year 1
September  /
Dacember                                      -                   -
March                                        300                 300
June                                         400                 700
Year 2
September                                    400               1,100
December                                     400               1,500
March                                        600               2,100
June                                         700               2,800
Year 3
September                                    700               3,500
December                                     700               4,200
March                                        800               5,000
June                                         800               5,800
Year 4
September                                    900               6,700
December                                     900               7,600
March                                      1,000               8,600
June                                      1,000                9,600
Year 5
September                                  1,200             10,800
December                                  1,200              12,000
March                                        800             12,800
June                                         800             13,600
Year 6
September                                    600             144,200
December                                     300             14,500
March                                        300             14,800
June                                         200             15,000
1/ Expected date of signing March 1975.
2/ Expected date of effectiveness.
/ Expected date of project completion.
November 11, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION RPOJECT
Markets and Prices
A. Wheat
Production
1.        Kenya has failed to reach its original goal of producing sufficient
wheat to meet domestic requirements. Annual production has declined sharply
from the 1969 peak level of 242,000 tons to 159,000 tons in 1972 and 126,000
tons in 1973. At the same time domestic consumption has increased signifi-
cantly, reaching a level of about 180,000 tons in 1973. Consequently, in
recent years large quantities of wheat have had to be imported, mainly from
Australia and the U.S.A.; these imports totalled 64,800 tons in 1972 and
77,000 tons in 1973.
2.        The decline in wheat production was the direct result of a reduction
in the area under cultivation from 172,000 ha in 1968 to 115,000 ha in 1971
and 87,000 ha in 1973. Estimates of planted acreage during March 1974 were
about half of what they had been in the same month last year, and the Wheat
Board projects that the total planted wheat area will be only about 74,000 ha
in 1974. The reasons underlying this decline are varied:
(a) the splitting of a number of the wheat growing mixed farms
into small units basically unsuited for commercial wheat
production;
(b) unattractive producer prices for wheat relative to other crops
such as maize, sunflower and dairy in high potential areas;
(c) low standards of farm management;
(d) high costs and erratic deliveries of inputs (fertilizers,
machinery, etc);
(e) disruption in production resulting from the transfer of
European-owned commercial mixed farms to Africans; and
(f) variable contracting machinery services.
In spite of major variations over the years, average yields on a national
scale increased significantly from about 1,300 kg/ha to 1,500 kg/ha between
1968 and 1973, largely on account of the use of high yielding varieties, larger
inputs of fertilizers and the withdrawal of the marginal producers. It should



ANNEX 8
Page 2
be stressed at this stage that in Kenya wheat has traditionally been grown
in medium and high potential areas by large scale farmers using modern power
equipment. In the future this reliance on large-scale production will continue,
as smallholders are not equipped to undertake meaningful wheat production.
3.        Domestic wheat consumption has increased at an annual rate of about
20% over the last three years. The Kenya national diet is based primarily on
cereals, the most important of which is maize. A gradual shift in consumption
patterns has occured over the past decade as standards of living have risen.
This shift, together with occasional maize shortages, has resulted in an increase
in demand for wheat, especially in rural areas. Thus, without an increase in
wheat production, the gap between domestic supply and demand will continue to
widen rapidly, with imports consuming increasingly large amounts of foreign
exchange. In 1972 and 1973 foreign exchange outlays for wheat were Ksh 31.7
million and Ksh 71.9 million respectively; the latter represented 1.7% of the
country's total import bill in that year. As an added consequence of the
increased domestic demand, Kenya was forced to discontinue its traditional
wheat exports to Uganda.
Marketing
4.        Production and marketing of wheat are controlled by the Wheat Board,
a Government statutory body whose role it is to fix producer and consumer prices
as well as to control wheat imports and exports. The Kenya Farmers' Association
(KFA) is the marketing agent for the Wheat Board and is responsible for storage,
grading and transport of the grain to the millers. KFA handles the entire wheat
crop with the exception of seed retained for planting and the by-products
reserved for stock feed. Both the direct and overhead costs of KFA's oper-
ations are financed by the Wheat Board. The Wheat Board has recently improved
its storage facilities by building two 20,000 ton capacity wheat silos in
Eldoret and Nakuru. Milling is carried out by six privately-owned and operated
wheat flour mills, one of which handles about 75% of the country's total
marketed production. Storage and milling capacities are satisfactory and are
adequate to handle some future expa;sion.
Prices
5.        In view of the continued decline in the area planted to wheat and
the fact that producer wheat prices had remained unchanged since 1969, the
f.o.b. sender's price per 90 kg bag 1/ was raised from Ksh 49 to Ksh 70 in
October 1973 and in several steps since then to the current Ksh 100 per bag
or Ksh 99 after tr-nsport costs. Before 1973, Kenya's wheat prices generally
approximated import parity levels. Since then, however, international wheat
prices have shot up, reaching Ksh 95/bag (US$147/ton) in 1973, and there are
indications that the average price for 1974 will be about Ksh 120/bag
(US$190/ton) delivered Nairobi. These are approximately the prices which
Kenya had to pay for its wheat imports in 1973 and 1974 respectively.
1/   Average grade 2-1/2 wheat raked (average for the first 2-1/2 grades).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Future Prospects
6.        In spite of the difficulties involved in forecasting the future
world grain situation, it is expected that wheat production in Kenya should
remain competitive with imports given adequate management and proper inputs.
The most recent forecast indicates that international prices of wheat, expressed
in 1974 constant terms, will decline steadily to reach a low of Ksh 77 per bag
(US$120/ton) by 1980. Production costs of wheat in Kenya are now estimated
at about Ksh 1,200/ha and, at the current producer price of Ksh 100/bag, a
farmer would have to obtain a yield of at least 12.5 bags per ha to be able
to show a profit. The Project farms are expected to obtain yields of about 20
bags of wheat per ha;  this indicates that wheat production should be profitable,
and Kenyan wheat should compete favorably with wheat produced by large exporting
countries. Also, exports of wheat products to neighboring African countries
could be resumed if production were to expand substantially. The annual pro-
duction target set by the 1974-78 Development Plait is 250,000 tons, a level
comparable to that achieved in 1969. Allowing for the currently anticipated
rate of growth of consumption of 7% per annum from 1974, Kenya still hopes to
be self-sufficient in wheat production by 1978. However, it will difficult
for these annual production targets to be met.
7.        A number of Government sponsored wheat development schemes have been
tried in the past, particularly in the Masai country. Although success has
been limited, the Government is currently launching a new Masai scheme whereby
200,000 ha would be brought under cultivation by 1975/76 with an expected
increase in national production by about 43,000 tons. The benefits to be gained
from the scheme are uncertain, however, and the rehabilitation of the large mixed
farms would be the most efficient way of alleviating the wheat shortage in the
country. Incremental production from the Project is expected to reach 16,500
tons, or about 10% of the quantities required by the country to attain self-
sufficiency by 1978. This will mean foreign exchange savings of approximately
US$1.3 million per year.
B. Maize
Production
8.        Maize is Kenya's staple food and the country's most important crop.
Maize statistics are difficult to verify, but it is estimated that the total
area under maize now approximates one million ha, with the large-scale farms
representing less than 10% of this area. Countrywide, yields are about 8 bags
(90 kg each) per ha on average, implying an annual average production of about
0.9 million tons. Production fluctuates widely from year to year, contributing
to a variable pattern in the volume marketed, as well as in total imports and
exports.  Mbst of the marketed maize is delivered from the main production areas
of Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia Districts.
9.        On average, only about 30% of total maize production is marketed
through commercial channels, with the balance being consumed on the farms as



ANNEX 8
Page 4
either human or animal feed. Marketed production stagnated at about 230,000
tons in 1970 and 1971, but then increased to 373,000 tons in 1972 and 450,000
tons in 1973. The 1973 record crop was due mainly to exceptionally favorable
weather conditions as well as to the increasing use of improved maize and
hybrid varieties. 1/ While there had been no foreign trading of maize in
1970, 128,000 tons were imported in 1971. The balance shifted in 1972 how-
ever. Net exports in that year reached 8,000 tons and then shot up to about
220,000 tons in 1973; in the latter year the total volume exported was equal
to the total domestic sales. In spite of these high exports, stocks increased
by about 7,000 tons during 1973 to reach 234,000 tons as of January 4, 1974.
Marketing
10.       Vitually all maize marketed through comnercial channels is handled
by the Maize and Produce Board and the Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA). The
Maize and Produce Board, which markets a number of other agricultural commod-
ities besides maize, is a Government statutory body responsible for maize
marketing, price and international trade policy. The KFA is the Board's
marketing agent for the Rift Valley, and handles roughly half of the country's
total marketed production. KFA assumes all the direct costs of its marketing
operations, but is remunerated by the Board at a rate of about Ksh 1.10/bag.
The Maize Board is responsible for marketing in the rest of the country, and
this is done through appointed traders who pay the farmers in cash for their
crops.
11.   -   During the early part of 1973, the Board was forced to slow intake
into its stores as a result of congestion at the receiving depots. This
situation eased during the year as a result of the increase in consumption,
export sales and the provision of additional storage capacity. In particular,
the Board's purchasing, drying and bulk-handling facilities at Nakuru and
Kitale (close to the Project farms) were expanded andmodernized. The on-going
4-year Development Plan envisages a total of Ksh 12 million to be spent on
maize storage facilities.
Prices
12.       The producer price of maize has fluctuated markedly over the past
six years. The low levels which prevailed before 1968 discouraged production,
but after the price was raised during the 1968/69 period, exports of maize had
to be heavily subsidized as the international price of the commodity remained
below Kenya's domestic price. Consequently, the producer price was reduced
around 1970. In 1972, it was raised again so as to encourage production and
curb the maize imports which had resumed in 1971. This increase achieved the
desired result, and substantial exports were made possible in 1972/73 at an
average of Ksh 560/ton. The producer price of maize was again increased from
the 1973 price of Ksh 35/bag (Ksh 385/ton) in several steps to reach the
current Ksh 65/bag (Ksh 715/ton). Under the present conditions, maize appears
1/   In 1972 improved maize covered 300,000 ha, including 210,000 ha of hybrid
varieties.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
to be fully priced relative to other crops. The recent increases should
offset the very substantial increases in fertilizer costs over the past year.
Future Prospects
13.       As a result of dry weather conditions, high fertilizer prices, and
delays in farmer credit in the producing areas, maize purchases for 1974 are
likely to fall below the 1973 level. The Maize and Produce Board estimates
1974 maize purchases at 288,000 tons as compared to 450,000 tons in 1973, a
drop of about 36%. However, with the 234,000 tons held in stock at the begin-
ning of 1974, there should be sufficient maize for domestic consumption during
1974. The current 4-year plan places a major emphasis on rapid increases in
maize production in order to satisfy a domestic demand which is expected to
grow at an annual rate of about 4% until 1978. It is also estimated that gross
miarketed crop production should increase at a rate of 6.4% annually over the
same period.  This estimate implies purchases by the Maize and Produce Board
of about 650,000 tons annually by 1978 if adequate provision for additional
buffer stocks is made (approximately 36,000 tons). Given the currently high
maize production costs in Kenya, prospects for exports are limited. In addition,
world maize prices are expected to decline in real terms from the current high
of Ksh 857/ton (U.S. No. 2, yellow f.o.b. Gulf Ports) to Ksh 643/ton by 1980.
Total incremental production from Project farms is expected to reach about 7,500
tons by the end of the current 4-year plan, thus covering about 5% of the
additional expected market requirements between 1974 and 1978.
C. Milk
Production
14.       Kenya's dairy herd was estimated at 460,000 mature grade cows in 1972.
Yields averaged 830 kg per cow for these improved types, compared to only 150
kg for the unimproved zebu females (of which there were about 3.8 million head
in 1972). Marketed production expressed in terms of milk equivalent has grown
at an average annual rate of 8% over the past four years, and reached 273
million kg in 1972 and 290 million kg in 1973. It is estimated that about 31%
of marketed production is supplied by smallholders and the remainder by large-
scale farms. Between 1970 and 1973, sales of processed liquid milk grew at 12%
per annum, due mainly to an increased proportion of whole milk going to the
liquid market; average per capita consumption of milk is now about 80 kg per
year. The balance of marketed production consisted of manufactured dairy
products such as butter, cheese, ghee and dried milk powder. The Kenya dairy
industry has had no problem in supplying sufficient quantities to meet domestic
demand, and has also produced sizeable quantities of milk for export - prin-
cipally to Uganda and Tanzania. Exports of whole milk to these two countries
total about 58 million kg annually. In both 1972 and 1973 butter and ghee
exports (the only non-liquid dairy products exported in those years) totalled
about 1,900 tons, that is almost 40% of total butter production in the country.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Marketing
15.       Milk and dairy products are marketed through farm sales, local sales
through dairy cooperatives and sales through the Kenya Cooperative Creameries
(KCC). An unknown quantity of milk is sold directly from the producer to the
consumer, while milk surplus to farm needs is brought to the nearest dairy
cooperative, which either sells it on the local market or forwards it to the
KCC. Annual local sales by dairy cooperatives total about 1 million kg of
milk, and sales to the KCC approximate 90 million kg or 30% of the latter's
total intake. The KCC is the main marketing channel for milk and dairy pro-
ducts in Kenya, and it has a near monopoly on the sale of fluid milk in major
cities. It has factories in Nairobi, Naivasha, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kitale, Sotik,
Kisumu, Thomson's Falls and Kiganjo. Liquid milk is processed mainly at
Nairobi, Naivasha, Nakuru and Eldoret, while spray driers operate at Eldoret,
Kiganjo and Kitale. Between 1969 and 1973, the intake of whole milk equiva-
lent increased at a rate of about 8% per year, and sales followed a similar
trend. In 1972/73, the KCC sold about 120 million kg of fluid milk, repre-
senting about 43% of its total intake.
Prices
16.       Producer and consmuer prices for milk are (as in the case of beef)
controlled by Government. Since the abolition of the farmer quota system in
1970, there have been two major changes in producer prices. From July 1970
to July 1971, producer prices reflected KCC's realized market prices. As the
proceeds from the sale of fluid milk were higher than those for milk products,
and as the proportion of the two changed between the dry and wet seasons, a
dry season bonus automatically arose. In July 1971, a constant producer price
was set by Presidential Decree; the price was set at Ksh 0.745 (recently
increased to Ksh 0.800) per liter for first grade milk, Ksh 0.55 for second
grade milk and Ksh 0.22 for low grade milk. In spite'of an increase in con-
sumer prices for milk and dairy products which became effective at about the
same time, KCC's spread has remained narrow and the Company has been operating
at a loss in the last two years: its total cumulated deficit shot up from
Ksh 2.6 million in 1971/72 to Ksh 14.4 million in 1972/73. KCC's financial
position is therefore precarious and appropriate measures are being reviewed
by Government.
Future Prospects
17.       The 1974-78 Development Plan estimates that by 1978 the number of
mature grade cows in the national dairy herd will have increased to about 625,000
head, with marketed milk production amounting to 410 million kg - a growth rate
of 6.8% per annum. Although the smallholders' share in total production is
expected to increase quite substantially during the Plan period, milk production
on the large-scale farms will still have to be encouraged if production targets
are to be met. Total production from the Project's mixed farms is expected to
reach about 22.4 million kg annually, that is about 18% of the anticipated increase
in marketed milk production between 1974 and 1978.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
D. Coffee
Production
18.       Kenya coffee (which is similar in quality to Colombian coffee) is
produced both by estates and by smallholders; the relative shares of each in
the 1972/73 season were 53% and 47% respectively. Total production reached
a record level of 73,800 tons in 1972/73, 25% above the 1971/72 level. This
production increase was the result of a number of factors, including (i) the
termination of the International Coffee Agreement in February 1973; (ii) the
overall improvement in cultural and management standards and a more efficient
control over the Coffee Berry Disease which had been a major obstacle to
increased production in preceding years; and (iii) the favorable prices of
coffee on the international market.
19.       The new Development Plan calls for a controlled expansion of the area
under coffee as well for raising the yields per ha. Although yields increased
through the early 1960's, they began to drop in about 1966 due to attacks from
Coffee Berry Disease (CBD). Total area under coffee was about 84,800 ha in
1972/73, 35% of which was in the estate sector and 65% in the smallholder sector.
Current trends in the coffee area are not very clear, but there are some indica-
tions that the past trend towards a reduction in the estate coffee area is
being reversed as estate ownership stabilizes and prices become more attrac-
tive. The smallholder coffee area, which was especially affected by CBD, also
seems to be expanding after a period of relative recession. Competition from
tea and dairying is a factor which may still adversely affect coffee planted
areas in some cases.
20.       The increase in production between 1971/72 and 1972/73 was mainly due
to a major improvement in yields closely linked to the control of Coffee
Berry Disease. Average yields were about 900 kg/ha in 1972/73, as compared to
720 kg/ha in the previous year. The main improvement took place in the estate
sector where yields averaged 1,320 kg/ha in 1972/73, a 30% increase over
1971/72, partly on account of a more systematic use of irriation. The yields
of about 630 kg/ha obtained in the smallholder sector remained comparatively
low, due partly to the difficulties created by the soaring costs of fertilizers,
chemicals and manure. In 1972/73, there was also a marked improvement in
coffee quality with the proportion of high standard coffee (classes 1-3) in-
creasing by almost 6% of the total mix, as compared with the preceding season.
This shift in quality occurred mainly in the smallholder sector.
21.       The estates usually pulp and dry their own coffee to the parchment
stage before they deliver it to the Kenya Producers' Cooperative Union (KPCU).
KPCU is then responsible for the milling and the classification as well as for
the delivery of the clean product to the warehouses of the Coffee Board of Kenya
which, in turn, proceeds with the auctioning. The KPCU handles about 95% of the
coffee produced in the country, with the balance going to the small private mills.
KPCU also handles all financial transactions in the name of the planter. Milling



ANNEX 8
Page 8
and storage fees are charged at about Ksh 135/ton of clean coffee, while payment
charges amount to 1/4% of gross proceeds. Through these marketing arrangements,
the estates obtain virtually the world market price according to the quality of
their coffee. In the smallholder sector, coffee is processed in factories
operated by the cooperatives. From there on, the marketing and pricing system
is similar to that available to the estate sector. The main difference between
the two is in the actual price secured by the producer. Given the low level
of efficiency of the cooperatives, the producer receives a substantially re-
duced portion of final export proceeds; also, payments from the cooperatives
are slow.  In light of these factors, the financial incentives to the small-
holder remain limited. Additional parchment storage and clean coffee ware-
housing facilities became available during the 1972/73 season when the KPCU
opened a 10,000 ton parchment storage complex.
Markets and Prices
22.       Sales by auction totalled 72,600 tons in 1972/73, a substantial
increase over the preceding two years when such sales remained close to
60,000 tons. The average price obtained was Ksh 9.2 per kg, as compared to
Ksh 8.5 in 1972 and Ksh 7.2/kg in 1971. For the 1973/74 season, an average
price of Ksh 10.8/kg is expected. The reasons for these price increases
are closely interrelated: (i) the low level of world coffee stocks; and
(ii) production continuously lagging behind consumption.
23.       World production of coffee has lagged behind consumption cortituously
since 1966/67, so that stocks have gradually decreased from their peak of ove,r
4.8 million tons in 1965/66 to about one-half of that level as of the e--;d of
September 1973.  The tight balanee between world supply and demand is lai^gely
due to the decline in Brazil's coffee production between S961 and 1972,
24.       Since the terminatioji of the International Coffee Agreement,
controlled export quotas liave ioen discontinued and a free market situation
has ensued for the first time in ten years.  In the absence of I.C.O. export
controls, the major producers have resolved to maintain a united marketing
policy, the main objective beirig to keep prices at levels such that a fair
return can be ascertained in the light of currency fluctuations. For this
purpose, they agreed to hold back 10% of their average exports over the last
three years from the market, implying a supply shortfall to the consuming
countries of 240,000 tons, a quantity comparable to the excess stocks held
by these countries.
25.       Kenya's foreign exchange earnings from coffee were about Ksh 715
rlllion in 1972/73, and represented about 33% of the country's total exports.
Kenya exports went to over thirty different countries and, as had been the
case in previous years, West Germany, Holland, Sweden and the United Kingdom
together purchased an aggregate share of 70% of the country's total coffee
exports. A small quantity of 3,900 tons was sold to new markets at a discount
price, while only 1,400 tons were consumed locally.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Future Prospects
26.       In view of the production and stocks outlook, wiorld coffee prices
are likely to remain firm in the years ahead. It is expected that prices in
real terms will reach a peak around 1976 and then decline gradually over the
last three years of the present decade as the supply situation eases. The
market for coffees of a qualitv comparable to that of Kenya coffee will remain
especially favorable. According to the most recent projections, the price of
Kenya coffee (f.o.b. Monbasa expressed in 1974 constant terms) is expected
to reach Ksh 12.0/kg in 1976, to decline to Ksh 9.8/kg by 1979, and to remain
at about that level thereafter. 1/ The decrease forecast for the end of the
1970's is in no way comparable to the fall in prices that occurred after the
coffee boom of the early fifties; this is due mainly Lo the increased willing-
ness of producers to forego production increases for the benefit of higher
prices. Producer prices are expected to basically follow a similar trend.
These prices were calculated on the basis of the Coffee Board's estimates of
the 1972/73 prices paid to the planters 2/, as detailed below:
Standard       Ksh/kg of           Standard           Ksh/kg of
Clean Coffee                          Clean Coffee
1              -                   7                 7.21
2            12.08                 8                 6.77
3             11.56                9                 6.13
4             11.09               10                 5.50
5             10.93                        Aver.    7.00
6             10.30
Aver. 11.12                Overall Aver.   10.88
27.       Kenya's 1974/78 Development Plan provides for an increase in
total coffee production and therefore exports to 70,000 tons by 1978.
As suggested by the above 1972/73 statistics, this target has already been
overshot. It should be born in mind, however, that 1972/73 was an excep-
tional year and that the 1973/74 crop has been forecast at 64,800 tons by
the International Coffee Organization. The additional production expected
from the Project would be 3,240 tons per year at full development (1979).
This would roughly represent 5% of both actual total production achieved in
1972/73 and targetted production for 1978. Since Kenya produced about
1.6% of total world production (estimated at 4.37 million tons) in 1972/73
1/   These prices are based on IBRD projections for Guatemalan coffee with
appropriate adjustments for quality, marketing conditions and transport
costs.
2/   Include marketing and processing costs.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
and contributed about 2.1% of total world exports (estimated at 3.36 million
tons), the impact of the Project on world coffee prices would be negligible.
28.       Kenya's current Development Plan emphasizes increased yields from
the existing coffee area. The main progress will be achieved in the small-
scale sector, for current yields are particularly low in that sector. As
far as the large-scale sector is concerned, drastic improvements can be
achieved on a number of run-down estates. With good management, rapid
increases in production can be expected, thus taking full advantage of the
good coffee prices which are likely to prevail over the coming years. The
Project at full development would boost estate production by about 9% of
the 39,000 tons reached in 1972/73.
February 10, 1975



ANNEX 8
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Incremental Proaect Production
Wheat (Year 7)
Improved Wheat - 90 farme x 140 ha each x 20 bags/ha x 90 kg/bag
1,000 kg in a ton
= 22,680 tons
Previous Production = 90 farmE x 50 ha each x 15 bags/ha x 90 k bag
1,000 kg in a ton
6,075 tons
Incremental Wheat Production = 16,605 tonE
Maize (Year 7)
Improved Maize = 90 farmE x 37 ha each x 37.5 bagz/ha x 90 kg/bag
1,000 kg in a ton
= 11,240 tonF
PreviouE Production = 90 farms x 20 ha each x 23 bage/ha x 90 kg bag
1,0oo kg in a ton
= 3,730 tons
Incremental Maize Production =7,510 tons
Milk (Year 10)
Improved, Production = 90 farms x 140 cowe x 1,500 kg/annum
1,000 kg in a ton
18,900 tons
Previous Production = 90 farms x 20 cows x 750 kg/annum   1,350 tons
1,000 kg in a ton
Incremental I-lk Production = 17,550 _ons
Coffee (Year 3)
Improved Production = 36 farms x 50 ha each x 2,00  kg
1,000 kg
3,600 tons
Previous Production = 36 farms x 50 ha each x 200 kg
1,000 kg
360 tons
Incremental coffee Production = 3,240 tons
February 6, 1975



KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Government Cash Flow From Project 1/
(Ksh '000)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5           Total         Year 6         Year 7         Year 8         Year 9       Year 10
CASH INFLOW:
Fram IDA/IBRD for project financing          10,298         21,157         27,674        31,032         16,932         107,093             -              -              -              -              -
From AFC for debt service 2/                    161            665          1,472          6 777         7 448          16,523          7,587          7 456          7 325          7,193          7 062
Taxi (Fuel and Income)                           430           820          1,160          1,410          1,450           5,270         1,475          1,600           1,776         2,308          3,060
Total Ceash Inflow                         10,889         22,642        30,306         39,219         25,830         128,886         9,062           9,056          9,101          9,501         10,122
CASH OUTFLOW:
To AFC for:
- Project on-lending                        8,714         20,409        28,471         32,834         14,973         105,401             -              -              -              -              -
- Additional staff costs                    2,662          4,096         5,452          6,054          6,718          24,982
- Large facm sector study                     269            298            101           112            123             903             -              -              -              -              -
To IDA for debt service 3/                       39            156            340            402           402           1,339            402            402            402            402            402
"  IRRD "  "       "                           267            267            370          1,872         3,826           6,602          5,650          5,650          5,650          5,650          5,650
To Ministry of Agriculture for
additional staff                              442            490            544            604            670          2,750            670            670            670            670            670
Total Cash Outflow                         12,393         25,716         35,278        41,878         26,712         141,977          6,722          6,752          6,752          6,752          6,752
ANNUAL SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                        (1,504)       (3,074)        (4,972)        (2,659)          (882)        (13,091)         2,304          2,304          2,349          2,749         3,370
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) 4/                (1,504)        (4,578)        (9,550)       (12,209)       (13,091)       (13,091)         (10,751)     (8,447)         (6,098)        (3,349)            21
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Loan repayable over 30 years including 3 years grace period @ 37. p.a. on amounts outstanding.
3/ 3/4 of 1% service charge on amouats disbursed and outstanding; credit repayable over 40 years
after 10 years grace period, Loan at 8k% repayable over 20 years following 5 years grace period.
4/ The cash flow will continue to show a surplus up to the end of year 30 due to AFC's accelerated
loan repayments relative to Government's debt service to IDA, which would continue to year 50.
The cumulative surplus over the 50 year period would amount to about Ksh 85 million.
February 13, 1975



ANNEX 10
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATICN PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        Economic rates of return for the project have been calculated
separately for the mixed farms and coffee estates and for the project as a
whole (Annex 10, Table 1). The following assumptions have been made:
(a)   farm-gate benefits from wheat, maize and coffee have been
adjusted to reflect international price forecasts;
(b)   coffee benefits are deferred one year because payments to
the Coffee Board. are usually delayed beyond the production
year;
(c)   to reflect more fully the benefits of foreign exchange
to Kenya, benefits from coffee and wheat are shadow-priced
at Ksh 10 to the US$ as all coffee is exported while wheat
production is considered. import substitution;
(d)   the foreign exchange component of costs was shadow-priced
at Ksh 10 to the US$;
(e)   taxes on fuel estimated at 30% of value total fuel cost
have been deducted. Other import duties and sales taxes
are either non-existent or negligible;
(f)   20% of project headquarters cost are allocated to the
coffee section. The remaining 80% as well as the resident
managers and Ministry of Agriculture costs are allocated
to the mixed farms;
(g)   unskilled labor on the mixed farms is shadow-priced at
50% to reflect the estimated underemployment of group owners
and. other labor in that area. Labor on coffee farms was not
shadow-priced because labor for coffee estates is largely
seasonal and local labor is fairly fully utilized at the
busy periods;
(h)   all other benefits and costs were calculated at market
value;
(i)   rates of return were also calculated without shadow-pricing,
i.e. with foreign exchange at Ksh 7.14 per US$ and with all
labor coeted at actual wage prices;
(j)   a series of sensitivity analysis showing the effect of
reduced and increased benefits and increased costs were
calculated (Annex 10, Table 3).



Y.7A
19000P 2229 RER4IAILITATIOEt PROJECT
Rc-ol  lealyoj io
38ol' ')000
1             2             3             4            _           6            7            8            9          lO 9i                     12          13-20
Corffee Estates
Incre-eatal 7c-oirt  (Coffee)                -              4,t7o      1r,o0o         28,80"      h6,392       46,222       44,738       43,i26       42,'20      93.020       42,820 o     42,82C      42,82o
nocrerental Coost
Da-efaro Investments                      5,566         02,009 3        ,_9        23,008       22,969      21,761       P1,511       21,484      21,643       20,323       21,835       12,230      22,365
TosholeoC loreleea               ~~~~          ~~~     ~~309q  923  039    386         386            66                       8                                                  
Total                         5,9-5        13,Y32        L3,o1        23.3394      23,354      21.29        21,279       21,523       21,E48      2Q,823       21,835       22,1230      22,36
Ioereeer,tal Eet C.h Plow                   (5,9553       (38,62'       (,299'         5,473    , i2.08        24,393       03,006      12,103       21,172       11,997       21. Y85     22,593       20,955
late of PoSIes - 14.0f
Mined Canon
Icent]B-nfits
Whe0t                                     -              3,027        8,270        14,081       18,381      13,120       19,220       19,200       19,220                   19,020 I9,220 19,220      73,220
otter        Milk00, 2012, Noat'           ,33           5,483       11,11          67          1,73l         1          1,8'.5       1825        18,888       1O,87f       1 9,09       20,0&3      2
Total                        1,533         3,Soy        19,380        30,507      37,111       37,382      37,115       37,47'       38,108       38,099       38,338      33,308       39,939
Iocevosentsl Costs
Oo-fsrro lovoatreeta                         6,237         15,871       23,683        29,668       24,700      21,33O       24,406       25,917      27,530       06,420       25,100       23,250      27,200
TePhileal Oer,9eo                2,                           043 .       2861  1,8649              iSto         1,8694                   61,464       L      ,       6t 8 h 6 9y 2 864    8   64       -6'
Total                        7,315        17,917        25,547       31,532       20,564      21,201       26,17.       27,381       28,33)       27,493      25,69 4      25,914       27,200
>-eP050tal Not fasth Flos                   (6,482)        (9,408)       6, 67)       (1,025)      10,547      ]4.181       11,011       10,095        9,344      10,614       12,354       13,894       12,739
RaKte of Retort - 297
'OfoCl 0eo10c1
,-c-eoaaotal 13eefits                        1,533         13,179        36,381       59,377       77.4933     33,04        81,900       81,L02       81,296      80,918       81,o3       82,128       82,759
oorAeotel. Costs lt.                        13,870         31,_9 93,897               54,926       99,913      43,130       9, 694                    53,92       49,481       47,799       48,144       9,6
noeo-teelsl Ret C-ol, 7Cls                  (12,337)      (17,9702      (7,466)        4,451       27,575      38,574       34.217       32,198       23,854      31,437       33,499       33,984       33,194
Rate of 8et51n _ 4-
i, BeRfs of -o1-1oorlo s SIVes ie test of Aeon.
feblsffoy 14, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 2
GRDUP FYANS BI&BILITAThIO PBDJRCT
Economic Rate of Return
Derivation of Comnodity Prices Used in the Economic Analysis
1983 and
1972      1973       1974      1975   1976   1977   1978    1979    80-82    thereafter
WHEAT: Canadian Western Red Spring
111$, in Store Thunder Bay  1/
Current (US$/T)                           71       147        210
(Ksh/T)                         507     1,050      1,499
Constant 1974, prices (US$/T)             98       168        210       200    180    162    i45       130      125
(Ksh/T)             700      1,200      1,500     1,!,3n  1,285  1,155  1,035      930      893     S93
Kenya Wheat (locally produced
or imported)
Producer Price (current Ksh/T)                     777      1,000      1,110
Inport Price (current Ksh/T)SJ           489       933        n.a.
Import Parity Price                              1,065~/  1,330       1,490  1,350  1,210  1,080       960      940     940
(1974 Ksh/T) %/
Adjusted Producer Price                            955      1,220      1,380  1,240  1,100    970      840      820     820
(1974 Ksh/Ti/6/
MAIZE: U.S. No.2, Yellow f.ob. Gulf
Ports ,/
Current (US$/T)                           56        98        120
(Ksh/T)                         400        700       857
Constant 1974 prices (US$/T)              77       112        120        125    112    105    100       95       90      93
(Ksh/T)             550        800        857       293    800    750    714       678     643      664
Kenya Maize
Producer Price (current Ksh/T)                     444        555       722
Export Price (current Ksh/T) |                     560       n.a.
Export Parity Prce                                 640  I    686         760    680    640    607      576      547     564
(1974 Ksh/T) Z
Adjusted Producor Price                            530        576        650    570    530    497      466      437     454
(1974 Ksh/T) t/_6/
COFFEE: Tnternational Price (clean coffee)
Guatemalan, spot New York /
US)/lb                                                       72        72      80     72      70      65       65      65
Ksh/Ton                                                  11,320    11,320 12,600 11,320 11,000  10,220  10,220  10,220
Kenyan, F.O.B. Mombasa
10,800     10,800 12,000 10,800 10,500  9,800  9,800   9 80"
Ksh/Kg                                                     10.8       10.8   12.0   10.8   10.5      9.8      9.8     9.8
Adiusted Producer Price (Ksh/kg
clean coffee) /6/
Standards 1-5                                                11.1      11.6   12.3   11.1   10.8    10.1    10.1    10.1
Standards 6-1o                                                7:0        73    7.8    7.0    6.8       6.4      6.4     6.4
1/  IBRD Projections (April 8, 1974).  Prices for 1972 and 1973 are actual.
2/ East African Customs and Excise - 1973 Annual Trade Report.
3/  Calculated on basis of previous ratios Kenya Import Parity Price in ct. 1974 prices = 1.260 = 1.05
Canadian, Thunder Bay in ct. 1974 prices         1,200
4/  Obtained from current 1973 export price by applying annual inflation rates of 14% between 1973 and 1974.
Net of Handling, Transportation and Administrative charges, expressed in 1974 constant prices.
6/ Used in Economic Analysis.
7/ International value of Kenyan maize if made available on the free market - calculated on basis of previous ratios:
Kenya Maize Export Price (1974 prices) = 680 = 0.85
U.S. Yellow (ct. 1974 prices)              800
8/ 1974 prices are based on Kenya Coffee Board's projections. For following years, prices have been adjusted
on basis of 1974 ratio.
February 12, 1975



ANNE 10
KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity Analysis (%)
COFFEE ESTATES
Benefits: as calculated           minus 10%        plus 10%
Costs: as calculated.                                         65 44  65
plus 10%          4
mr4-,nus 10,      62
MIXED FARMS
Benefits: as calculated          minus 10%         plus 10%
Costs: as calculated      29                 19               41
plus 10%          20
minus 10%         41
TOTAL PROJECT
Benefits: as calculated            minus 10%       plus 10%
Costs: as calculated      42                31               52
plus 10%           32
minus 10%         50
February 7, 1975






KENYA
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
STEERING COMMITTEE   ]
MINISTRY OF                            AGRICULTURAL FINANCE
AGRICULTURE                                   CORPORATION
[LAND &FARM MANAGEMENTI 
DIVISION. L&FM PROJECT                       LARGE FARM MANAGEMENT
COORDINATOR                            SECTION PROJECT MANAGER
District  Mixed Farms         Coffee Estates    l            Coffee Estates
Rehabilitation             Coordinating Teams    -         Visiting Managers            Designated Management            Coffee Management
Committees                                                                             Firms or Visiting Agents          Companies (ERA)
r                              I 1   1   1   | Coffee Management
Resident Managers              Resident Managers                 Companies
Group Managers
Mixed Farms                       Coffee Estates|  Resident Managers
(90)                 I(9)
[    Coffee Estates
(27)
World Bank-9183(R)






IBRD  11145
1                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY   19 74
34                K E N  Y A                  360                     370
GROUP FARMS REHABILITATION
MIXED FARMING AND COFFEE PROJECT AREAS
COFFEE ESTATES PROJECT AREA              EXISTING AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DISTRICT OFFICES:
2-         MIXED FARMING PROJECT AREA                 I  KITALE                 5 NAKURU
2  '/,   MIXED  FARMING PROJECT AREA            2   ELDORET               6  NAIVASHA
3   KERICHO              7  KIAMBU                    k
4 MOLO
, .   ..  .   -  .  .     -  .  .*-.-                                                                    ' 1e
l ake           -,
Bari'ngo                                         -
A'cd/             /srn0&                                                    ->\ f- 
ARE OFMPWir
Lake  KE    VA          R~~~~~~~~ER$    ,   ,oke
'o                                                         N In   kTi v           eru\
Marobasa "'s+                  e                                Ny,r 
o; .... - - . . 4 . - . A 4 .9 , kfi X L                                               304



