FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1527-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
GROUP FARM REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 27, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY UNIT        3          Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US $1              3            K Sh. 7.14
K Sh. 1           -             US $ o.114
K Sh. 1000                      US $ 140.00
K Sh. 1,000,000                 u US $ 1140,000
FISCAL UEAR          -           JULY 1 to  JUNE 30



INTERNAT1ONAL DEVELOPMEFT ASSUCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FUR RECONSTRUCTIUN AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PRuPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A GROUP FARM REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$765 million on standard
IDA terms and loan for the equivalent of US$7.5 million to help finance an Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Project.   The loan would have a term of 25 years including five
years of grace with interest at 8-1/2% per annum. Most of the proceeds ($14.0
million) would be relent to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) for thirty
years including three years of grace with interest at three percent per annum.    AFO
would onlend these funds to final beneficiaries at nine percent per annum, over
varying rnaturities depending on the purpose for which finance is required.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:   Basic Economic Report on Kenya"
(Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 20, 197L. It was followed by an agricultural sector survey
on Kenya (Report No. 25ha-KE, dated December 20, 1973) distributed on March 13, 1974.
A special mission visited Kenya in February 1974 to review the economy's prospects
and aid requirements in the light of the changes in commodity prices. The mission
reported to the Consultative Group meeting held in Paris on April 18 and 19, 197L.
Since then, we have closely followed further developments in frequent contacts with
Kenyan authorities and in coordination with the flIF staff. Country data sheets are
attached in Annex I.
3.        In 1973, Kenya completed its first decade as an independent nation.
During this period, Kenya's achievements were notable. On taking power at the end
of 1963, the Government inherited a difficult challenge. While Kenya was already
rather more developed than many newly independent African nations, the dualistic
nature of the economy, which concentrated much of the wealth within the European
and Asian communities, tended to overshadow the underlying poverty of the mass of
the African people. Poverty in the rural areas, where 90 percent of the population
lived, was as serious in Kenya as in most African countries.
4.         In terms of overall growth, Kenya's economic performance since Independence
has been impressive in almost all respects. During the period since 196L, GD? has
grown at an average rate of about 7 percent in real terms, which has allowed signifi-
cant gains in per capita income despite the high population growth rate. Average per
capita income had risen to $180 in 1973, which is about the median for African countries.
This growth rate has been supported. by a high and growing rate of investment in both
the private and public sectors. In the early seventies, fixed capital formation has
accounted for over 25% of monetary GDP, which is an exceptionally high investment rate.
However, this has inevitably put a strain on Kenya's economic resource base and subse-
quently on the balance of payments, despite the fact that Kenya's domestic savings rate,
abput. 20%, is one of the highest in the developing world.
5.        The Government's fiscal and monetary management has been one of the factors
responsible for the generally sound performance of the economy.    On the fiscal side,
the public sector's performance has been very good.    In 1964, Kenya had a recurrent
budget deficit, a relatively insignificant developmenut budget and depended heavily
on external aid.   Since then, by virture of its increasing tax effort and disciplined
control on spending, the Government has (i) converted its recurrent deficit. into a



- 2 -
substantial surplus (which in 1970/71 accounted for 23 percent of all national
savings), (ii) expanded its development budget at an average rate of 27 percent
a year, and (iii) considerably reduced its relative dependence on external aid.
The fact that Kenya achieved these results until recently with only negligible
internal inflation and without resorting to expensive forms of external financing
makes this performance even more notable.
6.        While Kenya's performance in sustaining a fast rate of overall growth
over the first decade has been very good, some aspects of development were less
satisfactory; the benefits of development have not been distributed as widely as
the Government would like and, in particular, unemployment is growing and poverty
persists. It is easy to criticize lack of progress in distributing the benefits
of development, and always possible, in retrospect, to suggest a somewhat different
set of policies. But no one pretends that there are any quick or easy solutions
to rural poverty, the growing pressure on the urban areas or the young educated
unemployed. The fact that the Government did request the International Labour
Organization to undertake a major mission and, after careful consideration,
accepted much of the general strategy of ILO's innovative report, is evidence
of a commitment to wider distribution of development benefits.
7.    In looking at the decade ahead, the Bank concluded in its Basic Economic
Report that the first prerequisite for an effective attack on unemployment and
rural poverty would be to maintain or even increase the past rate of growth.
However, a number of indicators suggest that it will become more difficult for
Kenya to maintain the momentum gained in the past; this follows in part from the
very success of its performance so far, as well as from the fact that the more
obvious development opportunities have already been exploited. Capital-output
ratios have been rising, savings have shown some sign of levelling off and the
increasing resource gap has started to put pressure on the balance of payments.
The report foresaw, in particular, a severe balance of payments constraint if
growth were to continue along the previous lines, and therefore advocated a
restructuring of the pattern of growth which would alleviate if not completely
solve this constraint.
8.        The basic development strategy is therefore that whatever short term
policies may be needed to deal with immediate problems, the economy has to be
induced to operate more efficiently, both in utilizing fewer inputs of scarce
resources (particularly capital and skilled labor) and in generating greater
benefits. This requires both a change in the structure of growth with less
investments in infrastructure and greater emphasis on agriculture and domestic
resource-based industries, and a change in the process of growth in all sectors,
particularly through changes in the prices of factors of production. The
strategy advocated by the Basic Economic Report will, among other things, move
Kenya towards greater self-reliance in the longer term, by increasing the efficiency
of domestic resource use and diminishing the dependence on imports. But the pro-
posed changes will necessarily take time.
90        In the Third Development Plan, 197h-1978, the Government has set an
overall growth target of 7.h% per annum and indicated that this rather ambitious
growth has to be achieved by a restructuring strategy which in a general sense,
although not in all details, runs parallel to the approaches advocated in the Bank
and ILO/TNDP Reports.   Because of recent developments in the international monetary
and trade relations, Kenya's structural adjustment problems are now presenting
Tremse.lves at a much earlier stage in the development process than expected.   The
balance of Dayments constraint has assumed an acute character requiring immediate



- 3 -
remedies as well as structural policy changes.   After a temporary improvernent in
1973 (thanks to important price increases for two major crops, coffee and sisal)
Kenya's terms of trade have resumed their downward trend in 1974, when export
prices levelled  off but import prices soared,   both for oil and non-oil trade
flows. Kenya is heavily dependent on petroleum which has to be wholly imported.
The existing hydro-electric potential is already under development and the exploration
of the geo-thermal potential is being accelerated. While in previous years ex-
ports of oil products produced by the refinery in Mombasa approximately covered
the costs of oil imports, the oil trade has yielded a net deficit since 1974 and
will involve more and more foreign exchange costs in coming year.,, This vital
import is expected to cast as much as $77 million (net) in 1974._ In addition,
the deficit for non-oil trade is estimated at over $200 million. Even with higher
receipts both on the invisibles balance and from regular capital flows (net),
a high overall balance of payments deficit emerges. Another effect of the world
inflation was the domestic inflaticn in Kenya which assumed unprecedented pro-
portions. The cost of living increase for lower income families was 15% in 1973
and certainly not less in 1974. At the same time, drought depressed Kenya's crops
and livestock production and added pressure to the price level.
10.       Government recognized that the situation called for a set of measures to
contain effective demand for imports to the extent necessary in the immediate
future, while more fundamental restructuring policies -- along the lines advocated
in the Basic Economic Report -- were being put into place. The latter would
admittedly take time in creating an impact. In the short term, steps were
taken in the course of 1974 to tighten domestic credit expansion to the private
sector, mainly by an increase in the prime lending rate and referral of foreign
controlled companies, in line with already existing rules, to overseas money mar-
kets for the satisfaction of their credit needs. At the same time, interest rates
on savings and deposit accounts were raised to encourage private Bank savinmgs.
The Government's budget proposals for 1974/75 allowed for less expansion, in real
terms, of recurrent expenditures than originally foreseen in the Development Plan;
in development expenditures, non-essential building projects were postponed. Taxes
were raised so as to limit government recourse to bank borrowing. The tax increases
included sales taxes on imported consumer goods,in particular petroleum products,
which aimed at bringing down demand for these products while greater restraint
was also placed on profits by increases in the tax on company profits (from 40 to
45%), the tax on foreign branches' profits (from 47.5 to 52.5%) and the tax on
dividends paid to non-residents (from 12.5 to 15%). Moreover, an export compensation
scheme for manufactured products was established to promote exports.
11.       In addition to these domestic measures, Government turned to foreign
donors and in particular to the IMF and the World Bank Group, and applied for
special financial assistance. In the course of 1974, Kenya obtained about $70
million in various emergency resources (including the IMF oil facility) and by
drawing on its foreign exchange reserves to the extent of about $40 million, managed
to cover the balance of payments deficit in 1974. At the beginning of 1975, the
country's reserves represented the equivalent of about 2 months of imports, and this
level prevents much further use of reserves as a means of financing. This year,
Kenya will therefore have to rely heavily on special forms of foreign assistance
to help finance the balance of payments deficit, which even under the assumption
of constant imports in real terms, is forecast at a level exceeding the 197h deficit.
Bank staff members are at present engaged in a discussion with Kenya Government
officials, in the context of the Government's application for a Program Loan, con-
cerning measures to contain the 1975 deficit within manageable proportions and
1/ Imports of food (which cost about $63 million in 1973) are expected to increase
as well.



accelerate the introduction of a package of policies to restructure economic growth
and restore the balance of payments equilibrium in the longer term. Under the
present conditions of uncertainty about world inflation and demand in developed
nations it is exceptionally difficult to estimate the time period needed to reach
this equilibrium.
12,      Kenya's outstanding external debt increased from $258 million at the end
of 1963 to $596 million at the end of 1973, of which $401 million has been dis-
bursed.  Thus, since Independence, Kenya has accumulated external debts at a rate
of about 8.5% per year, or only slightly slower than the average rate of growth
of cIJP, Kenya's debt service burden is comparatively light (4.2% of exports in 1573,
excluding Kenya's share in E.A.C. debt. About 37% of total external debt is now held
by the Bank Group, but because Bank Group lending has only recently become a significant
proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1973 was still only
about 11% of all debt service payments. In addition to its own external public debt,
Kenya is also jointly responsible together with the other two partner states for the
debts incurred by the East African Community and its institutions, which amounted
to some $216 million (outstanding including undisbursed) in September 1972.
13.      While Kenya's economic performance certainly justifies substantial amounts of
concessionary financing, including IDA credits, these are available in limited amounts
only. Therefore, under the present assumptions, Kernya's debt service would increase as
a result of both a higher level of borrowing needed to bridge the balance of payments
gap in the next few years and the on average less favorable terms of borrowing than
obtained before. But since export earnings would simultaneously increase, the debt
service ratio would probably not exceed 11% by the end of the seventies. The country
remains therefore creditworthy for Bank lending. The Bank Group share in total
debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 40% and the Bank Group share in debt service
payments would remain modest, The balance of payments constraint reinforces the case
for substantial local cost financing demonstrated in the Basic Economic Report.
Rh.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East African
Community. However, in practice the degree of economic integration and cooperaticn
among the Partner States is much less than what had originally been evisaged.
Fundamental differences between policital philosophies and socio-economic policies
pursued by the Partner States have impaired the growth of interstate trade. These
d ifficulties have now been compounded by the balance of payments crisis which
currently faces all three Partner States, and each countr-y has been forced to
reexamine its international obligations and make decisions which it sees as being
in its own best interest. As a result of these developments basic changes in
the structure of the Community are matters of urgency, President Kenyatta recently
called for a revision of the Treaty, -with particular reference to the Community
Corporations, and the other States also recognize the need for such changes. The
differences between the Partner States have zreated operational difficulties for
the Community Corporations. There has been a growing interference in the day to day
operations of the Corporations by the Partner States with the result that some of
these common services are now unable to operate as efficient entities. The East
African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a
result of long delays by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs until
1974 and restrictions placed on the interstate transfer of corporate funds the
corporation has been unable to order essential spare parts and supplies with the
result that its operational capacity has deteriorated drastically. In July 1974 the
Partner States agreed on a package of financial measures designed to rehabilitate the
EARC.  They also agreed to appoint consultants to recomend a decentralized structure
for the Corporation, However, this agreement has been only partially implemented.
ae'r i-ktions have continued to be placed on the interstate transfer of FARC, and
other Comrnunity Corporation funds, and its position has deteriorated further. The
Partner States have so far been unable to resolve these difficulties.



PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
15.       Kenya has to date received ten Bank loans and fifteen IDA credits
amounting to $139.4 million and $120.2 million, respectively. In addition,
Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans totalling $229.8
million which have been extended for the development of common services
(railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry) operated
regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community --
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Community organizations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
16.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satisfactorily,
but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical fields cantinue
to present problems and have slowed down progress on some projects. Because
of the difficulties in attracting qualified expertise, no immediate remedy can
be expected. However, the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to
fill such positions should eventually alleviate these problems.
17.       Most of the Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past has
been for infrastructure, especially transportation and power. However other
sectors, including agriculture and forestry, education, family planning and
water supply, have also received support. We intend, in the future, to give
greater emphasis to agriculture and other directly productive sectors,
particularly to projects which are likely to bring more immediate benefits
to large numbers of people and will, as much as possible, increase Kenya's
foreign exchange earnings. With these objectives in mind, the Bank agreed
with the Government on a program for expanding the Bank's technical assis-
tance in agriculture, beginning with the agricultural sector survey that was
mounted in late 1972. We have provided an expanded program of assistance in
project identification through the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, and
have supported an agricultural advisor who assists the Ministry of Agriculture
in preparing projects.
18.       This expanded technical assistance is starting to show results.
An IDA credit of $21.5 million for the Second Livestock Project was approved
by the Executive Directors in May 1974 and will establish a five-year beef
development program benefitting some 170,000 people. A forestry project has
now been appraised. Preparatory work is under way for an integrated crop
production project for marginal areas of Kenya, an irrigation project in the Lower
Tana River Basin, and for rehabilitation of the sugar industry in Kenya. While
these results are encouraging, they are only a beginning. To support adequately
the development of agriculture and the rural areas of Kenya will require sustained
efforts. We are having a continuous dialogue with the Government on how best we
can support accelerated agricultural development during Kenya's 1974-78 Plan
period. Yet, while the major emphasis will continue to be on directly productive
agriculture, we foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure
and anticipate assisting rural water supply and rural access roads in the
future, We will also shortly appraise a wildlife and tourism project which will
develop new tourist circuits and help spread benefits to a large number of
rural communities.



-6-
19.       Concurrently with efforts to promote the development of
the rural economy, substantial investment will continue to be
required to keep public services abreast of economic growth. To
provide a more efficient and economic means of moving increasing
volumes of petroleum products from Mombasa to Nairobi, an oil
pipeline project is under consideration. A power project to keep pace
with Kenya's rapidly growing demand and a water supply project to
alleviate water shortages in Mombasa have been appraised. In view of the
high capital costs of these projects we would expect a significant
amount of bilateral finance to be associated with Bank Group financing.
As a first step in providing low-income dwellers in Nairobi with
suitable housing, a sites and services project is expected to be
presented to the Executive Directors later this year. In addition,
a second project for the Industrial Development Bank and a third education
project have been appraised. In view of the balance of payments
constraint which Kenya faces (see paragraph 11) and which is caused
by exceptional circumstances beyond its control, I also intend to
submit a Program Loan to the Executive Directors during this fiscal
year,
20.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corporaticns
referred to in paragraph 14 have affected the Bank's lending program for
the Community. Since EARC corporate funds are not being transferred
in accordance with the formula agreed in July 1974 and Sh6O million out
of a total of Shl5O million the Partner States agreed to inject into EARC
have not been paid, the EARC's right to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account from Loan No. 674 EA has been suspended pending action on both
these issues. Furthermore, in the current state of uncertainty regarding
the future structure of the Community Corporations, appraisal of further
proposed Community projects has been postponed until the issues mentioned
above have been clarified.
21.       IFC has committed a total of $25.9 million for three companies
in Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
and Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.). As of December 31, 1974,
IFC held for its own account $18.0 million comprising $13.3 of loans
and $4.6 of equity. IFC is discussing with the technical partner,
SEDITEX, and the Industrial Commercial Development Corporation a proposal
to set up a new textile mill in Nakuru.



-7-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTUR
General Background
22.      Agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy.
It provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (over 90% of the total
population), generates over 60% of foreign exchange earnings and comprises
over 30% of GDP. Agricultural production also contributes significantly to
industrial activity by providing commodities for processing.
23.      Complexity and diversity characterize Kenyan agriculture.    Primitive
techniques and low productivity exist along with highly developed agricul-
tural technology. Widely ranging types of climate, soil and topography
combine to produce a varying pattern of land utilization and cropping. These
complexities are compounded by diverse historical, racial, cultural and poli-
tical features. The agricultural sector is dualistic in two senses; the
division between subsistence and cash crop production still exists, and the
former division of farming into "European" and "African" types of farning
remains.
2b.      Land is scarce in Kenya; only about 18% of the total land mass of
about 583,000 km2 is classified as of medium or high agricultural potential.
dithin this small area, population pressure is high and rising.   Agricultural
activity is concentrated mainly in the southwestern quadrant of the country.
There are about 3,000 medium to large farms in Kenya, and approximately 1.2
million small farms, about half of which are less than two hectares in size.
Many farms are still at a subsistence level, but nunerous rural families have
recently established themselves as commercial farmers, using improved seeds,
fertilizer and other inputs. In addition, there are approximately 200,000
pastoralists and another 300,000 rural households without direct access to
land.
25.      Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Maize is the major subsis-
tence crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. other sub-
sistence crops include millet, cassava, potatoes, plantains and bananas.
Commercial production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyre-thrumi
and wattle.  However, cashew nuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool
are becoming increasingly important. 4heat, rice, sugar and cotton are pro-
duced largely as cash crops, but are almost totally consumed within the
country.  While meat and dairy products continue to be significant in subsis-
tence agriculture, a growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed
domestically or exported.
26.      Agricultural development is controlled by an elaborate network of
government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of Agriculture
is primarily concerned with setting overall policy, including pricing policy,
and providing general support services (such as research, extension and
training). It also exercises control over a wide range of specialized



-8-
production and marketing boards and agencies. Other ministries, including
Lands and Settlement, Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism and Wildlife,
Natural Resources, and Works, are responsible for other services in the agri-
cultural sector. Agricultural credit in Kenya is provided by an array of
different institutions, reflecting the transitional character of the Kenyan
economy. The older farm credit institutions which served the European
farmers before Independence include the commercial banks, the Kenya Farmers
Association (KFA), the Guaranteed Minimum Return Scheme, and the Government-
supported Land and Agricultural Bank. The Land and Agricultural Bank has now
been merged into the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) (see paragraph 41)
and this is now the main credit channel for small and medium-scale farmers.
27.      Impressive progress has been made over the past decade, especially
in the introduction of cash crops into the smallholder sector. Over 450,000
smallholders can now be characterized as progressive farmers. However, while
growing at 4.3% a year in real terms, agriculture is falling behind other
sectors. Agricultural development needs to be accelerated to help alleviate
four particularly sensitive and critical problems: poverty, unemployment,
inflation and a deteriorating balance of payments. While comparative statis-
tics of per capita income indicate that Kenya has developed further than
many of her neighbors, the poor rural population is ten times larger than the
relatively well-off urban population. The average rural income has been esti-
mated as being under $70 per head, and, even within the rural sector, wide
variances exist. Most rural dwellers live at subsistence levels, and have
limited access to health care and education. Rapid population growth exacer-
bates the problem. The labor force is increasing beyond Kenya's ability to
absorb it; migration to Nairobi is accelerating, and the cost of providing
basic social services is growing at alarming rates. Finally, recent adverse
.rends in world markets, coupled with the oil crisis, have raised the costs
of imported farm inputs and reduced profitability.
Agricultural Development Plans
28.      In charting its future course, the Government must play a much more
active role in agricultural development if the economy is to meet the challenge
of these new market developments. The Government has already set forth the
important objectives in the development plan of improving income earning poten-
tials for the poor segment of the rural population, accelerating agricultural
production levels, as well as agricultural processing to ensure export earnings
and providing job opportunities in rural areas. Specific programs are now being
prepared. As recommended by the Agricultural Sector Survey, priority is placed
on a number of crops (including maize, wheat, oilseeds, sugar, coffee) and on
livestock development. And in an effort to promote production, the Government
recently announced price increases of major crops ranging from 10 to 50%.
29.      Maize is an important crop in Kenya today, but yields are low.     The
Government therefore plans to increase yields to enable subsistence needs to
be met from smaller acreage and thus free land for cash earning enterprises.
Another important crop for Kenya is wheat, and the government has concluded



-9-
that the large-scale farms must continue as the main source of wheat production
in Kenya in order to reduce imports. Oilseeds are minor crops grown entirely
by small-scale farmers who rarely plant more than one hectare. Yields are low,
largely because of late planting and poor pest control. Because of the high net
imports of edible oils and the fact that existing crushing plants operate at
50-60% of capacity, the government is accelerating research to determine areas
suitable for oilseed production. Sugar is also now receiving more attention.
Although sugar production grew steadily in the last few years, Kenya still imports
about one-third of her sugar requirements at a total cost of some $20 million a
year. An extensive sugar development study is now under way and Kenya hopes to
expand cane production and rehabilitate existing sugar refineries.
30.       Coffee is Kenya's most important export crop, contributing about 30% of
export earnings, and is produced both by estates and smallholders. The estatessector
is well established, but there has been little or no new planting on them since
their transfer from European ownership. Thus all their trees are mature while
their area has decreased. Smallholder planting started only in 1955-56, but
now consists of over 22,000 farmers. The area planted by them increased
substantially in the early 1960's, and now comprises about 65% of total area
used for coffee. During the last few years the smallholder coffee area has dropped
slightly because of coffee berry disease. This-reduced profitability, and some
planters changed to alternative enterprises, such as tea, vegetables, and milk
production. Production has recently fallen short of targets, and the Coffee
Board is reviewing its policies. It now views its primary task as rehabilitating
the old estates and salvaging the plantings. But as coffee is a labor-intensive
crop well suited to smallholder production, the Coffee Board is also considering
new approaches to improve output from small farms. In view of Kenya's small
share of the world market, any increase in export sales would not have an
appreciable effect on international coffee prices.
31.       Cattle development programs have mainly been concentrated in the range
areas. But there are also major opportunities in the medium and high potential
agricultural areas where smallholder slaughter cattle are generally
seldom fed up to their maximum slaughter value.
32.       The Bank is in general agreement with the priorities now being adopted
by the government. These crops and activities not only offer export earning
and import substitution potentials but can be grown where population pressures
are high and will provide substantial benefits to smallholders. The less fertile
lands, however, will largely be left out unless special programs are designed
to cater to such areas. Recognizing this, the government is preparing an
integrated crop project in marginal areas which will concentrate on smallholder
production of pulses, maize, sugar and cotton.    In order to reduce population
pressures in high potential area's- it 'is' also contemplating opening up new areas by
irrigating land.
33.       Having established the basic.priorities, the real problem will be to
design the institutional framework for channeling services to the farmers.
First, the government must ensure that the parastatal agencies, private entre-
preneurs and cooperatives integrate effectively credit, inputs and marketing
services into agricultural development programs. Equally important, the govern-
ment must adapt itself to meet this challenge possibly through organizational
change. It also must continue to review farm gate prices for the major agricul-
tural commodities and announce them in time to allow the farmer to determine



- 10 -
optimum cropping patterns to maximize his returns. Agricultural training must
be revamped particularly at the lower level, if the programs that are being
designed are to achieve their aims. The Bank Group will continue to lend its
assistance to improving Kenya's technical skills through the Economic Development
Institute and education and agricultural projects.
Large-Scale Farm Sector
34.       About the time of Independence, the Government instituted a program to
redress the historic imbalance between the rich European farmer and the poor
African farmer. Under this program high quality agricultural land occupied by
European owners was transferred to Kenyan ownership. There were two main elements
in this transfer: first, a settlement program under which large farms were sub-
divided into productive smallholder plots; and second, the direct transfer of
large farms as units to individuals, groups, companies and quasi-government
authorities. In the latter category, the majority of the farms have been purchased
from their former European owners by groups organized variously as partnerships
(the maximum number of legal members is seven) private companies (maximum number
of legal members is fifty), or informal cooperatives(often with absentee as
well as resident partners). Many contributors to all three types of group farms
have no legal status as members, as their contributions were made through an
official member. Group ownership thus provided a vehicle for the landless with
limited capital to purchase farms.
35.       Of the 1,800 mixed farms owned by Africans in high potential areas,
it is estimated that about one-third are well run and have a rising output,
one-third are perhaps breaking even but have not increased their total produc-
tion since the change in ownership and the remaining one-third are "problem
farms" facing severe financial and production difficulties. A recent study
snowed that on average the least successful group cropped only 16% of the total
farm land (down from 21% three years before), employed only nine farm workers
per 100 ha and had a gross output of Ksh 280/per hectare. The typical syndrome
of the problem farms, which average about 600 hectares, runs as follows:     When
investing in the farms, the group owners had barely enough money for the initial cash
payment and consequently they were almost immediately confronted by a shortage of
working capital. Dissension among the owners grew, production fell and the farm
yielded insufficient revenues to meet the substantial payment due on the purchase
development loan. In order to generate additional capital, group members are often
asked to put up further sums to repay the loans, and in some cases, new members
are recruited.   The end result of this pattern has been that individual merbers
lose interest in the large scale activity and retreat to subsistence farming on
their individual plots and to communal grazing of their individually owned
livestock. In these instances, that part of the farm devoted to large-scale
agriculture often is almost totally neglected. In extreme cases, whole farms
are often carved up by the owners into new or subsistence plots and all large
farm commercial activities dropped.
36.       Despite the fact that smallholder production has become more important
over time, large-scale farms remain a significant component of Kenyan agriculture,
producing about 48% of gross marketed agricultural production. In view of the
importance of the large-scale farm sector to commercial production and because of
the large number of people that are dependent on these farms for their livelihood,
government intends to ensure that these farms remain intact. The immediate objec-
tives are to increase the commercial production of commodities such as wheat,
maize and coffee, to improve incomes of group owners now living at subsistence
levels and to provide substantially increased employment within the agricultural
sector.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
370      With assistance from the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa in the
preparation of a group farm rehabilitation project, the Government submitted
a loan request in March 1974. An appraisal mission visited Kenya in April/May
1974, and negotiations of a loan/credit took place in December 1974. Mr. Gathiuni,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, led the delegation. A report
entitled "Appraisal of a Group Farm Rehabilitation Project" (Report No. 583-KE
dated February 1h, 1975) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
A Loan/Credit and Project Summary is attached as Annex III to this Report.
Project Description
38.      The Project would, over a five-year period (1975-80), aid in the re-
development of mixed farms in the Rift Valley Province and coffee estates in the
Central Province by providing assistance to selected group farms which need
credit and improved management services. The Project would increase the
incomes of about 13,000 participating group farm families and would result in
expanded national marketed agricultural production. Specifically the Project would:
(a) assist 90 large-scale mixed farms owned by groups;
(b)  assist 36 group coffee estates;
(c) provide medium and long-term capital for farm investments
in machinery and infrastructure along with working capital
and technical and management services for participating farms;
(d) create a large-scale farm management section within the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) to implement the program;
(e) establish four units within the Land and Farm Management
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture to help identify Project
farms, assist in Project implementation and run training
programs for farm managers; and
(f) provide for a study of the large-farm sector within Kenya,
project evaluation and preparation of subsequent phases.
Project Costs and Financing
39.      Total Project cost is estimated at KSh. 166 million (US$23.2 million),
of which KSh. 72 million (US$10.1 million) or 4h% represents foreign exchange costs.
A physical contingency of 10% and a price contingency of 12% per annum have been
added to all Project costs.
The financing would be as follows:
US$'000    %
IDA                                        7,500      32.5
IBRD                                       7,500     32.5
KENYA                                      8,200     35.0
TOTAL                                     23,200     100



- 12 -
40.        The proposed IDA credit of US$7.5 million and the IBRD loan of US$7.5
million would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of US$10.1 million and
a portion (about $4.9 million equivalent) of local costs (about 37 percent of this com-
ponent). In view of the current difficulties facing Kenya's economy in general, and
the particular need to encourage projects which help achieve self-sufficiency in food
and increase export earnings, the local cost financing is considered justifiable.
Altogether the Bank Group would finance 65% of total project costs. Apart from meet-
ing some technical service costs and financing the large farm study, these funds-
together with the government contribution, would be onlent to the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) at 3% per annum for a term of 30 years including a three
year grace period. AFC would in turn onlend loan funds to all beneficiaries at 9%
per annum for their medium- and long-term financing needs. These loans would have
varying maturities according to the purposes for which they are to be used. Long
term finance would be provided for major rehabilitation works (15 years with 2 years
of grace). Medium term loans would be provided for the purchase of equipment (7 years
with 2 years of grace) (Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement). Short term
working capital at commercial terms would also be provided for all the mixed farms
and coffee estates. Because of the precarious financial state of many of the fanns
to be rehabilitated, existing purchase and improvement loans will be rescheduled to
a maximum of thirty years.
41.        AFC was established as a statutory body in 1963 to assist in the
development of agriculture and agricultural industries. At present, it extends
credit under three large-scale schemes, includingranching loans funded by
the Association, Canada, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States. AFC
is also extending credit under two smallholder development projects funded by
IDA and Germany. AFC financing is provided mainly by government in the form of
irredeemable and redeemable capital. The redeemable capital is loan capital
onlent by government at interest ranging from 1 to 6%, averaging about 3.5%.
Proceeds from IDA credits also form part of this capital. Since its reorganiza-
tion in 1969 AFC has made loans totalling US$12.6 million. Interest receivable
in fiscal year 1973 averaged about 7% on the total portfolio, thus giving AFC
a spread of 3.5%. Although AFC's efficiency has improved, this margin has thus
far proved insufficient to cover AFC's operating expenses and the corporation has
generally operated at a deficit since 1969. However, AFC has now increased its
interest rate from 8% to 9%. This should improve its financial condition. Because
AFC in this project would be providing far more than normal credit services including
technical assistance (which are estimated to consume about 3-u of the spread)intere$t
at 3% on funds to be onlant from the government to AFG is considered Justified,
Rehabilitation of Mixed Farms
42.       Under this project about 90 of the 600 problem mixed farms will be
rehabilitated. These farms are presently underutilized -- yields are low and
considerable acreage remains uncultivated.   While recognizing that many different
factors have influenced each of these farms, the Bank and the government agree that
two problems, credit and management, are central.
43.       The AFC would provide three types of credit to facilitate on-farm invest-
ments for all farms participating in the project. (Schedule 3 to Development Credit
Agreement.) Long-term credit would be provided for the purchase of fencing, dairy
construction, piping, storage tanks, equipment and livestock, etc. Medium-term
credit would be available for the purchase of tractors, cultivation equipment,
machinery and vehicles. Finally, short-term credit would be provided to buy
insecticides, herbicides, fertilizer, seeds and other farm inputs.
b4.       The farms to be selected will have to meet certain criteria.     (Annex to
Schedule 3 to Development Credit Agreement) First, all farmers who have paid a
share in the farm should be registered. Second, in order to be rehabilitated the



-13 -
farms would have to be or become a cooperative or a company since partnerships have
experienced severe management problems. Finally, the farms will have to agree to
hire a Farm Manager who would be acceptable to AFC. The Farm Manager together
with a Farm Committee consisting of local government officials, AFC representatives
and two farm representatives, would consult with the owners on all ma_or policy
decisions and generally involve the members to the extent possible. The members
will have the right to a subsistence plot on the farm and will also work on the
farm.
45.       One problem affecting group farmers has been the government's pricing
decisions on crops and inputs which have often been made too late to affect plant-
ing. Thus, the farmer has had to face uncertainties in both the availability of
inputs and in the value of his output.   This project requires that all prices of
final goods be reviewed annually and published in time for the planting season
and adjusted as necessary to reflect changing input costs. (Section 4.04 of
Development Credit Agreement.) This should assist farmers in planning optimal
cropping programs.
Rehabilitation of Coffee Estates
46.       The New National Development Plan (1974-78) calls for a controlled expan-
sion of the area under coffee, as well as for further increases in yields. Because
the most immediate results can be expected from the rehabilitation of run-down
coffee estates, the project includes some 36 out of the 100 problem estates. The East
African Acceptances (EAA)l/ and possibly other similar companies, would provide manage-
ment to the extent possible to the coffee estates. An agreement between the govern-
ment, AFC and FAA confirming EAA willingness to provide management services has been
negotiated and will be signed as a condition of effectiveness. AFC would provide
long- and medium-term loan requirements for all the coffee estates and would also
be responsible for providing short-term capital at commercial terms. To the extent
management firms are willing to provide short term capital, the obligation of the
government and AFC will be reduced correspondingly, although this is likely to be
less than originally expected in view of tight credit conditions in Kenya.
47.       The coffee estates to be rehabilitated would be selected in a similar
manner as the mixed farms. Once selected by AFC, the designated management com-
panies would sign a five-year management agreement with eacih of the estates.
Training
48.       Good management is the key to the rehabilitation of these farms and estates.
For this reason an extensive training component has been included in this project. The
Land and Farm Management Division of the Miinistry of Agriculture would have overall re-
sponsibility for project training. A trainring program for resident farm managers would
be set up. Prospective managers would be mainly recruited from graduates of the
two schools, the Eldoret and Thompson Falls Farm Managers Training Institutes in
Kenya. In order to insure an adequate number of recruits for the program, assu-
rances have been obtained that Thompson Falls would be renovated to an acceptable
standard. (Section 4.02 of Development Credit Agreement.) As part of the training
program, the resident managers would be placed as Assistant Trainee Managers on
suitable large-scale farms for one year to give them some management experience.
They would also be enrolled in appropriate short courses in management techniques,
bookkeeping, programming, etc. In addition the resident farm manager would be
expected to share his knowledge and experience with the group farmers.
1/ EAA is a financial institution jointly owned by British banking and
agricultural companies with operations in Kenya.   In addition to providing
finance, it has instituted a successful management advisory service to
coffee estates.



-14-
Large Farm Rehabilitation Study
49.       The Project would involve only 90 out of some 600 problem farms within
the large farm sector and 36 of the roughly 100 problem coffee estates. By
necessity, the most difficult farms, i.e., those which have too many owners or are
unofficially subdivided, in too many plots, would not be included. These farms would
require changes in ownership (with compensation or resettlement) and an extensive
debt write-off or subsidy before they could be rehabilitated. This is a complica-
ted problem with no easy solution. The project includes a study to investigate
possible solutions to the difficulties presented by this category of problem
farms. The study would also evaluate the Project with the aim of formulating a
possible second stage covering an additional 350 farms.
Organization and Management
50.       Overall direction of the Project would be vested in a steering committee
consisting of the Head of the Land and Farm Management Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture (Chairman), a representative of the Treasury, the General Manager
of AFC, the Project Manager and the Project Coordinating Officer. AFC would,
however, have specific responsibility for project implementation. A Management
Section would be established within the AFC under the direction of a Project
Manager. Additional staff would be recruited as necessary including four inter-
nationally recruited Senior Farm Managers. The Farm Management Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture would assist in selecting mixed farms to be included under
the Project and help prepare farm plans, development proposals and budgets. The
AFC would, however, make the final selection of Project farms and would be respon-
sible for the rehabilitation program while the Ministry of Agriculture would
provide general extension services. (Schedule 3 to Development Credit Agreement.)
Procurement and Disbursement
51L       The items to be financed would be purchased in small consignments in
scattered locations and would therefore not be suitable for procurement through
international competitive bidding. However, there is adequate competition, both
international and domestic, in offering contracts through local channels.
Project goods would mostly be imported, and several producers of farm machinery
and fertilizers are represented in Kenya. Sales and after-sales services are
adequate, supplies satisfactory and prices competitive.
52.       Funds from the Credit/Loan account would be disbursed over five years.
The IDA credit would be disbursed first. Disbursements would be made against fully
documented expenditures on subloans (80%) and short term working capital (80%)
for on-farm investments, together with the costs of technical services (80%), the
large farm sector study and project monitoring (90%).
Accounts and Audits
53.       The small-scale loans have already been programmed, and after a few
initial problems, it is now possible to obtain an up-to-date aging schedule
of arrears on small-scale loans. AFC's preparation of loan statements and
the regular monthly billing system which will thus come into effect are expected
to result in up-to-date accounts and statements for effective management infor-
mation. Assurances have been given that AFC would continue to employ independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA and that the audited accounts, together with
the auditors' reports, would be sent to the Bank/IDA within four months of the
end of AFC's fiscal year. (Section 3.02 of Project Agreement.)



15 -
Economic Benefits
54.       The Project would rehabilitate 90 mixed farms and 36 coffee estates
within the large-farm sector. Such a program, through the infusion of additional
capital and management expertise, ensures the continued economic viability of
these operations and would result in a substantial increase in marketed agricul-
tural production. The group owners would obtain security of ownership on both
their individual subsistence plots and on that part of the farm devoted to large-
scale commercial cultivation. The maintenance of these commercial. farming
activities would also guarantee the owners an increasing cash income. Additional
benefits to be derived would be strengthening of AFC, and valuable management
experience which could be applied to the rehabilitation of other large problem
farms within Kenya.
55.        The major quantifiable benefits stemming from the Project would be
a substantial increase in marketed agricultural production of wheat, maize, milk
and coffee estimated at US$10.1 million per year at full development.   This
would make a major contribution toward self-sufficiency in food production and
would also provide substantial export revenues. The Project would also ensure
employment, either permanent or seasonal, depending on the number of group owners
involved, for about 13,000 group farm owners within the large-farm sector.
The Project would thus affect a total population of about 80,000 persons. These
families would come from the lower income levels of the rural population; most
of these families would be landless and unemployed if some means were not found
to protect their investment. At full development, each family would receive,
in addition to its subsistence income, an annual cash income of Ksh 600 on the
mixed farms and of Ksh 3,000 on the coffee estates. The current average per
capita agricultural income, including subsistence, of a rural family in Kenya
is estimated at Ksh 480 (US$70) per annum. The return on incremental investments
under the average Project mixed farm and coffee estates would be 29% and 54%
respectively. The high returns, particularly for the coffee estates, are mainly
due to the significant amount of sunk costs already committed. The overall economic
return over.twenty years is estimated at 42%.
56.        There are major risks in this Project.   These farms are suffering
from poor management, heavy debt burdens and dissension. The repayment
of the loans extended under the Project would depend to a large extent on
the implementation of the improved management practices. In spite of every
effort some of the farms are likely to continue to experience severe
difficulties, and a few of these farms may not survive. However, the substantial
benefits to be gained from the rehabilitation effort greatly outweigh the
risks involved. In addition Project risks will be minimized by the careful
selection of participating farms and by careful supervision of farm management.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       Drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, a Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank and of a Project Agreement between the Association, the Bank and the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC), copies of which are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately, conform generally to the pattern of the Association's and
the Bank's agreements for agricultural credit projects. Also being distributed



- 16 -
separately is the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section L(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the draft resolutions approving the proposed credit and loan.
58.      Conditions of effectiveness contained in the draft Development Credit and
Loan Agreements include (i) the signing of an agreement between the Borrower, AFC
and EAA and (possibly other management companies) whereunder EAA and those manage-
ment companies are committed to furnish management services for the coffee estates
under the Project, upon terms and conditions approved by the Association, and the
Bank and (ii) the appointment of a Project M4anager in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement (Section 6.01 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit and
the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1975



Annex I
Pap 1
ODUIMY DATA-
AREA                                              PDPUIATIl            
ke ! 2                                        11.7 rilMiea  (oid-1971)                       20    P    rIN a
Per k3cf stable land
SOCIAL iDICATORS
ONP PER CAPITA US* (ATLAS BASIS) /.                                           150          2,270           t100         340
DEtYiRAP!I:
CrudelMr-th rate (per thoseend)                                50/ a         48             16            4A7          44
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                20   a        16             11            21           10
Infant ortality rate (per thousand live birtha)                                             19  b      160-165 /c      70 d
Life epectancy at birth (years)                              40-45 La        49             72            43           59
Gro,e repr-duction rate L2                                                    3 313                       3.2         3.1
Population growth rate                                        ..            3.1            0.6            2.7         3.2
Population growth rate - urban                                                  /a7 /t     0.5              7           5 L
Age structure (percent)
0-414                                                      146 /h.i       148 /b         214           44           47
15-614                                                       517 i         48             63             53          50
65 an1 over                                                   3             4 7S          13              3           3
Decendency ratio  4                                            .            1.2            0.8           1.1 /k       1.7
Urban population as percent or total                            8 /t.h       10 Zb.f        78             6 /c        56 IL
Family planningt No or acceptors cumulative (thus.)                                         .                         316
No. of users (S of carried oan)
FMPWLDENT
Total labor force (thousands)                                             5,100 /bj     25,200         5,800        6,200
Percentage employed in agriculture                                         90   2           3            91          41
Percentage uneeploy.d                                                                     3.6                         7
lNCCdM DISTRI8UI1ON
Percent of national incoma received by highest 5%                                                                      40
Percent of national incoce roreived by highest 20%                                                                     68
Percent of national tncome received by lowest 20%                                                                       2
Percant of national Lnoo-  received by loent 40%
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWIERSHIP
S owned by top 10C of ownera
S owned by sn,allest 10% of owners
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per physician                                   11,000 /b 1   12,1W             860 L       21,570 /n    2,230
Population per nursing person                               1,610      o3,140 2p           290          2,980     n 2,700
Population per hospital bed                                   810 h         730            1. 10 /b       780 /n      420
Per capita calorie supplya %B of reaquiranta /S                93 /p         90            120             69          89
Per capita protein supply, total (gram  per day)   6           72 7-         68             88             43          55
Of which, animal and puls                                    32 z          29             58             23          29
Death rato 1-4 years /7                                                                    0.9                          1
EDUCATION
Adjuste   8 primary school enrollment ratio                    49            67             98 /b          37          95 /d
Adjusted    secondary school enrolleant ratio                   3             9/ S          58 E            2          2) 7
Tears oa  chooling provided, first and second levl             13            13             13             13          11
Vocational enrollent as % of sac, school enrollent             12             2              5 /c           6          22 /d
Adult literacy rate S                                                        30  d          97 7S
HOUSI
Average No. or persons per roon (urban)                       2.5 /h.r                     0.6 /sat
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                                              20 /u
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                                            3          7C
Percent of #ural populatien connected to electricity                         ,              .                          36
CONSUhPTION
Radio receivers per lOCO population                             9            48 ^          3214 A          11         105
Passenger cars per 1000 population                              8             8            215              2 bsn       7
Electric power consumption (kWh p.c.)                          27            45          4,291 /b          29 7j      378
Newsprint nonsuaption p.c. kg per year                        0.4           0.5             28            0.1         2.4
Nte-    Figuner, refer cither to the latest periods or to          *ooount of ec,viro,masita; t_*ture, betwaista, and
thy Itatt yeara. Latest periods refer in principle to              distribution by age anti ars of AUtiMl populations
,h, yearn 195t-60 or 1966-70; the latest yea.rs in prin-       /6  Protein staendadd  (requirements) for all countries as estab-
ipl to 1960 and 197.                                             lishtsd by UBDA Eoonomio Research Serviea provide for a minim
T lhe Per Cepi L. GNP e..i-L.te  r at a,rkrt prince for            alloweneo of 60 grams of total protein par day, and 20 graee of
yls -,tl,h- then I J), -Ilcul.t.d by the tse Conversion        animal w1td pulas protein, of which )l grms should be animal
technique an the 1912 World bank Atlas.                        protein. These standards are oetwhat lower thtn those of 75
A Arergs numbrt of daughters per aotaen of reproductive            grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
age.                                                           avreges for the world, proposed by rAo in the Third World Food
o Ibpuiltinn fros.th rates are for the decades ending in           Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                             ZISm     studies h,ave suggested that Crude death rates of children
/1  1ti of under 15 cod 65 end over age brackets to                .age I throuaCh 4 may be uaed as a firet appremiation index of
thoe in labor force bracket of ages 1S through 64              tIlnutrition.
/j FAO reference standards represent physiological re-         Li Percentaps enrolled of oorrespcading population of school a
quirnemnts for norral activity and health, taking              &a defined for each Country.
/a  UN satimateefor African population, based en analysia of data frau 1962 post-oewal     aMple survey;  /b 1969;  /c 1967;
7   1968;  /a 1962-69; If 2,000 or nore inhabitants;    La Popvlation living in a nucleus of 1,500 or eor7 inhabita-e;
76 1962; 7 9 Basd on complete enumeration of non-African population and of urban African population and on a 10 percent
- sumple o7 rural African population; L1 Labor force in ae bracket 15-591   /k Ratio or popultion under 15 and 65 and over
to total labor force; /h Corresponding to the nuter of registered pwocnnelt; not till of thn are practicing in the
country;  /a Ercluding ;edical assistants;   /n Togaug ika only; /o Including   idwivee, 6a4iftant midwives and aesiatant
nurses;   F1961-63;   /I Including teacner training of the third Tvel;    /r rN *tti_te;    /8 1966;  /t Urban and rural;
Iu Urban only; /v Estimate.
RI  Karch 13, 1978



ANN EX I
Page 2 of 3
ECOI0MIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PHODUO'T IN 1973                                           ANNJAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 196L Prices)
US $ Million     %                           19t>-70         1970-72         1973
GNP at Market Prices           2,290       1)0.0                            5.2            6.3            o.7
Gross Domestic Investment        593        25.9                                           7.0            L.
Gross National Saving            5L'7       22.6                            5.8            1.5            18.3
Current Accouint bal`ance       - 7o       -  .3 
Exports of' Goods. NrF           688        30.0                           (.4             3.2              5
Imports of Goods, NFL            742        32.4                           9.1            -o.8          - 0.8;
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE5 AND
PRODtUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                       Labor Force  1/                V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.     %                   Thous.     %                     US $       Index
Agricu] ture                   ;o0        31                   4,647      86                     l1?        36
Industr,                       201        13                    141       3                    1,826       475
Services                       387        2L                     301      6                    1,286       4.29
Unallocated                    520        32                    288       5                    1,806       602
1,615       100.0                 g7377     100.0                   300       100
G0OVSRNMI1Yr FTNANCE                   General Government 2/                            Central Government
Mln. )     % of Monetary GDP                  ( E  Mln. )   % of Monetary GDP
1972/73       7972/73   1999/7l                   T97273       1972/73    1996/71
Current Receipts                  179.1          32.1       33.0                   149.0          27.3       28.3
Current Expenditure               159.3          29.1       29.2                   139.6          25.6       29.8
Current Surplus                    1              3.0       -                        9             1.7         2.
Capital iScpenditures              69.7          12.8       11.0                    61.9           11.4       9.9
External Assistance (net)            ..            ..         .,                    22.0           4.0        2.4
MONEY, CRZDIT and PRICED           1966       1970       1971       1972       1973       June 1973       June 197I
(Million  L  outstanding end period)    d
Money and Quasi Money               v4         176        189        215        268         231             292
RanuR credit t Public Sec tor                    7         16         27         3o         28              ,2
Easnk Credit to Private Geutor                  67        111        124        197        129             lb7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
1966       1970       1971       1972       1973       June 1973       Jlne 1978
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                            22.6       30.6       29.4       30.1       33.3                        _
General Price Index
(1964 = 100) 3/                  100.9      107.2      111.2      118.4     124.6          .              -
Arnual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                  0.7        2.0        3.7        6.5        5.2
ank Credit to Public Sector          ..          .          .    ,     .           .         .
Bank Credit, to Private Sector       6.9       31.8       27.6      11.7       26.6        12.6             45.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
I/ Total labor force inciudes estimatles of informal sector employment and self-employment; agriculture is
assumed to be the residu;lI employer.  "Unallocated" consists mainly of ur.amployed workers seeking their
first jnb.
3,/ Central and local goverrmnent onLy.
G GDP .'f.:.
riot avail ]ib'L
not applicabla



ANNEC I
Page 3 of 3
TRADE PAY!KNTS AND CAPITAL FLO'A
BALANC,`1 OF PAYMENTS                                                   MZRCIANDISE EKPORTS (AVERAGE 196L-72)
1964     1970     19'72    1973                                  IIS $ Million
-   (KTiTuins US~       -                                     _    __
p')ortQ o. Coods, NFS        337      473      560      688          Coffee                           5Q      ,
Imports of Goods, NFS         28       52      632       742          T3a                              2          7
Rcaourc( Gap (deficit =-)       T      -52                            Y Potroleum Products 1/          s2     12.n
S,sal                             8
InterCSt PayrnunW.s (n(t)      ..       ..       ..       ..          ieat                              6       3.
Workers' Remittances           ..       ..      I. ..                 T  E. A. C. 2/                   68      26.3
Other Factor Payments (not)   -27      -23      -34      -47          All other commodities            67     25.9
Net Transfers                  36       26       3-8      25
Balance on Current Account    111      _49     -69       -76                   Total                  259    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       .       56       43       46       EXTfERAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements             ..       ..       ..       ..                                           US $ Million
Amortization..                      .       ...
SAobtita  on                       25      6         5           fublic Debt incl. guaranteed           4ol
Cap[Lu   ir,u1 s               .,        ..      ..       ..          fon-guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            ,        11        1        1          .otal outstanding & Disbursed          0-T
Othur items n.e.i.            -25        8        4        5
Increase in Refserves (+)     _8        5       7         30       DESi SERVICE RATIO for 1'7'   3/
Gross Reserves (end year)    52.4 4/  231.    197.0    233.3
Net Reserves (end year)      51.9 I/  229.3    194.2    229.3         Fublic Debt irncl. guaranteed            4.2
N'on-guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      26       41       ;8       67
of which:  Petroleum      25       39      57        66
Exports                      13       40       56       62
of which:   Petroleum     13       40      54        62
IBRD/IDA LINDJNG DECEM1     31, 1974 (Million US $)
RAPS OF EXCHANGE
Through March 1973                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
US $ 1.00 = K.Sh.   7.14                                         Outstandin! & Disbursod                    t723
K , 1.00 - TS $    2.80                                         Undisbursec.                               70.3       53._
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed             278.2
Since June 30, 1973
US $ 1.00 = K.Sh.   6.')o
K ,7 1. 0G( - UST $  '. 9
Since Januar 16, l'74
US $ 1.00 = R.Sh.   7.16
K L 1.0= IJS $     2.80
: 'udi.ng exports to EAC.
2/    Excluding petroleum products.
3/    Ratio of Debt Service (excluding notional l/3 share of EAC debts) to bEports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
4/    Reserves figures are for 1966.
P/,   Preliminary Figures



Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at December 31. 1974
Loan or
Credit No.    Year    Borrower       Purpose              Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank          hA l/ Undisbursed
Three (3) loans and nine (9) credits, fully disbursed     32.1        40.0
641           1969    Kenya      Forest Plantations        2.6                     .2
185           1970    Kenya      Education                             6.1       2.6
714           1970    NCC        Water Supply              8.3                   3.0
224           1970    Kenya      Road Maintenance                     12.6       2.5
745           1971    TRDC       Hydroelectric
Development              23.0                   1.9
276           1972    Kenya      Highway                              22.0      10.6
826           1972    Kenya      Nairobi Airport          29.0                  22.2
344           1972    Kenya      Agricultural Credit                   6.o        4.5
932           1973    Kenya      Highways                 29.0                   29.0
9h6           1973    IDB        DFC                       5.0                    3.9
468           1974    Kenya      Population                           12.0       12.0
477           1974    Kenya      Livestock                             21.5      21.5
993           1974    Kenya      Tea Factories            lO.4                   10.2
Total                                      139.4.      120.2      124.1
of which has been repaid                  6.9
Total now outstanding                      132.5       120.2
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid   4.3              .8
Total now held by Bank.& IDA               131.7.      120.2
Total Undisbursed                            70.4-       53.7     124.1
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Eenya as at December 31, 1974
Amount in US $ Million
Year                Obligor         Type of Business      Loan      Equity    Total
1968 & 1973    Kenya Hotel Properties     Hotel             5.2       0.7     17 
1970 & 1974    Pan African Paper Mills    Pulp & Paper     11.9       5.7     17.6
1972           Tourism Promotion Serv.    Hotels            2.4                2.
Total Gross Commitments                      19.5       6.4     25.9
less cancellations, terminations,                             8
repayments and sales                       6.2       1.8      8
Total Commitments now held by IFC            13.3       4.6     17.9
Total Undisbursed                             3.0       0.2



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.  Projects in Execution -/
Loan 639 - Highways: $23.5 million Loan of October 10, 1969;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1975.  Construction is substantially completed except for two
contracts which have been delayed by changes in specifications and construction
standards. These delays required postponement of the Closing Date from December 31, 1973
to June 30, 1975. There has been a 30 percent increase above original cost estimates
due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation: $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975.  Progress is satisfactory and disbursements are
proceeding faster than envisaged, and the loan is almost fully drawn down a year
before Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are satisfactory. A second
phase project has now been appraised.
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower rate than
anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected that all project
institutions except two will be completed prior to the Closing Date. An extension of
the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely to be required in order to complete the
two project items lagging behind.
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975. Good progress has been made on the main project items,
and water was delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. A nine month postponement
of the Closing Date, however, will be required to enable completion of ancillary items.
The Water and Sewerage Department is still experiencing staffing shortages in its
engineering and commercial sections due to inability to attract and retain staff. The
financial results of water operations are generally satisfactory. Cost overruns, wlich
are mainly due to local cost increases, are about 23 percent over the appraisal
estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project is proceeding satisfactorily. All designated
posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has been installed and the
Highway Training Center is operational.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric:  $23.0 million Loan of June 7, 1971;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1975.  The project was commissioned in August 197T and there
are only a few minor details outstanding. Cost escallation was 7%, principally the
result of consultancy fees, a sales tax that was imposed and currency fluctuations.
The closing date of June 30, 1975 may have to be postponed because some retention monies
are not due until after that.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by a Swedish
Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining governmental
approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, total estimated costs of
the project rmay exceed the appraisal estimates by 15 percent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The major contracts have been awarded and work has
comrnenced.  Inadequate supervision by the key contractor and administrative delays
by the Government have led to delays in the physical execution of the project.
Financial and organizational problems persist. There is likely to be a cost overrun
of about $10.5 million.
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of November 29, 1972;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1976.  The Agricultural Finance Corporaticn has started a
second phase of lar.ding operations, following the completion of the first under
Credit 105, Progress is proceeding well, except that on-farm credit supervision
could be improved. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of Semtember 6, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.   This loan was made effective on November 9, 1973.
Some of the bids have been invited, but progress is behind schedule.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of November 29, 1973;
Closing Date: _March 31, 1976.  Sub-projects totalling $1.9 million have been approved,
and further cormitments are expected in the near future.
credit 468 - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1. 1974-
Closing Date: June 30, 1960. This Credit became effective on July 31, 1974. There is a
slight delay in the construction schedule.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 21, 1950. This credit was declared effective on December 2, 1974.
iWork on the ranching component is now proceedirg.
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.I million Loan of June 5, 1974-
'mosing Date: June 30, 1950. This loan became effective September 23, 1974e Gontracts
for four tea factories have been let.



Annex II
Page 4
C. Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by Kenya, Tanzania, and
Uganda as at December 31, 1974
(US$ ' million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan No.    Year    Borrower     Purpose               Bank         Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                           75.0
638 EA      1969    EAHC       Harbours               35.o            7.3
67h EA      1970    EARC       Railways               42.4           17.9
675 EA      1970    EAPTC      Telecom mnications     10.41            .6
843 EA      1972    EADB       Development Finance    8.0             7.7
865 EA      1972    EAHC       Harbours               26.5           20.1
914 EA      1973    EAPTC      Telecommunications     32.5           24.h
Total                                    229.8           78.0
of which has been repaid          28.3
Total now outstanding                   201.5
Amount sold:                      214.4
of which has been repaid  24.4     0
Total now held by Bank                   201.5
Total undisbursed                         78.0



ANNEX III
Page 1 of3
KENYA GROUP FARI REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project and Credit/Loan Summary
BORROWE Rl                       Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT                           Credit of $7.5 million;
Loan of $7.5 million
TERMS                            Credit:  Standard terms
Loan: 25 years in.cluding 5 years
of grace and interest at 8 1/2 percent
per annum.
RELENDING TERMS     :            The bulk of the proceeds of the credit and
the loans would be relent by the Government
to the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) for 30 years including 3 years of grace
at 3 percent per annum, The AFC would onlend
to the ultimate beneficiaries at (i) 9% per
annum for long-term loans of 15 years
(with a two year grace period in case of
mixed farms); (ii) 9% per annum for medium-
term credit of 7 years; and (iii) 9% per annum
for short term credit in case of mixed farms
and commercial rates in case of coffee estates.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION               The Project would aid in the rehabil-
itation of about 90 group-owned large-
scale mixed farms and about 36 group-
owned coffee estates, which are now
urgently in need of credit and improved
management services, by (i) providing
medium and long-term loans for on-farm
investments in machinery and infrastruct-
ure and short-term loans for incremental
working capital and (ii) providing improv-
ed management and technical services to
the individual farms and estates. The
Project includes management assistance
to be provided by the Agricultural Finance
Company (AFC) and a private company, East
African Acceptances (EAA) with technical
assistance also provided by the Ministry
of Agriculture. A large-scale farm study,
project evaluation and preparation of sub-
seauent phases would also be included. AFC
would have specific responsibility for project
implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
US$1000
ESTIMATED COST                                        Project Cost
Local     Foreign  Total
Mixed Farm                         Costs      Costs
On-Farm Investemnts               2,480     2,440  4,920
Incremental Working Capital        930        930  1,860
Coffee Estates
On-Farm Investments                630      1,240  1,870
Incremental Working Capital      2,870      1,100  3,970
Resident Farm Managers                160      -       160
AFC Administration                    730      W40   1,170
Ministry of Agriculture Services      230       20     250
Large Farm Study                       20       70      90
Contingencies                      5,030     3,900   8,930
13,080   10,140  23,220
56X      44%    100O
FINAN4CING PLAN:
IDA      BANK            KENYA
7.5      7.5             8.2
32.3%    32.3%            35.4X
ESTIMATZD DISBURSEIENTS:
1975     1976     1977     1978      1979     1980
Credit          0.7      2.1      3.0      1.7       0.4      -
Loan             -        -         -       2.1      4.0     1.4
PROCUREENT AbANGEM2ITS:               The items to be financed would be procured
in scattered locations and at varying times
throughouit the Project period and would
not be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding and would therefore be procured
through normal commercial channels with
advertizing in local papers.



ANNEX III
--Page 3 of 3
RATE OF RETURN                     Economic Rate of Return 42 percent
APPRA1hAL REPORT                   Report No. 583-KE dated February14 , 1975
MAP                                A map showing the project areas is
attaclhed (IBRD 1115h).



I B RD   11145
34          K E N Y A           36              317JL           97
GROUP FARMS RE HA BILITATI ON
MIE       FAMN       AN     COFE     PROEC      AREAS   ___   _..
::::|COFFEE ESTATES PROJECT AREA  EXISTING AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DISTRICT OFFICES:
2         IE  AMNGPOETAE               I KITALE         5 NAKURU2-
-2 //////%| MIXED FARMING PROJECT AREA2 ELDORET  6 NAIVASHA2
3 KERICHO         7 KIAMBU     
-                  j            4  f.1aLs-)                         qO'd
P1.'.                                                 
W  .'- m                                          ,,j,# I~~~~~~~~~, e
A         ltA',  lqYlA K                                     t\
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r k<t- XI  ier-
A ntA      ;~~~~~~~~"            I<. Al,
<                   @t  t         l a 4 ef  , 1   <  _  _ 81~~~~~~NAKJPL
e           D j u ;<c,'' 1 
e,, ;t o '  4_  | E  -- -- PRCJVINC~~~~~~~ ~~~~IA )JNDZE  tA  t  b 
s (,   N r | R 0 8 1 .   n   .             J  W0.IAlZSi gwO  >   I   )~~~~~~2-
TA - .,.        1    /    -  NENTOA      OUDRE..                R     ._
. 4 .. -~ T HO I 'r'... A A .Xv,XX~}l.r
4   q  r0|rrrlbosat  O   CO   BO   12g)   1:n   w0~~~~iok
^v Ld   WOSI-             AI WETE  ROD                        A 3  mb ose l r   v 3



