CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 537 KE
Project Agreement
(Group Farm Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 26, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called
AFC).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank and by the Development
Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association,
the Bank and the Association have agreed to make available to the Borrower
amounts in various currencies equivalent to a total of fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement and
the Development Credit Agreement, respectively, but only on condition that AFC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank and the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS AFC, in consideration of the Bank's and the Association's
entering into the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as defined in the Loan
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AFC shall carry out Part A and Part B(i) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrati-e, economic,


﻿4
financial and agricultural practices, and under the organizational and management
arrangements set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, AFC shall provide credit under
Part A of the Project for the purposes and on the terms set forth in paragraph
8 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and shall provide or cause
to be provided technical and management services under Part B(i) of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise agree,
AFC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.04. (a) AFC shall furnish to the Bank and the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports and contract documents for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   AFC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's and the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the
Association all such information as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   AFC shall enable the Bank's and the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of AFC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. AFC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(d) of the Development
Credit Agreement and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree,
AFC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) AFC shall, at the request of the Bank and the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Bank and the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Bank and the Association all such information
as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request in
respect of the Project.
(b)   AFC shall promptly inform   the Bank and the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit, or the performance
by AFC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. AFC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Bank and the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank and the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of AFC and the audit thereof as the Bank and the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿6
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
the Association and of AFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Loan Agreement and the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms,
or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii)
of this Section, the Bank and the Association shall promptly notify AFC of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿7
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AFC:
Agricultural Finance Corporation
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable addr-ss:
AGFINCORP
Nairobi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of AFC may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as AFC shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. AFC shall furnish to the Bank and the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of AFC, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by AFC pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ HansA.Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / David K. Gichero
Authorized Representative


