CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1243 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Rubber Replanting Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 13, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1976, between the KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Rubber Replanting
Aid Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) with the Borrower's assis-
tance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make avail-
able to the Fund the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) The Project will be carried out in accordance with the
Borrower's Rubber Replanting Aid Fund Act and be financed, in part,
with the proceeds of the Rubber Cess levied by the Borrower pursuant
to said Act;
(D) The Borrower has obtained from the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP) a grant for a UNDP Project for which the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) will serve
as Executing Agency, and under which technical assistance services
for the Project will be provided to the Fund and the Rubber Research
Center;
(E) The Borrower intends to contract from Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation (CDC) a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan) in
an amount of three million four hundred thousand pounds sterling


﻿-2-
(E3,400,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
CDC; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available upon the terms and conditions
set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date here-
with between the Bank and the Fund;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Replanting Act" means the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund
Act, B.E. 2503 (1960), as amended by the Rubber Replanting Aid
Fund Act (No. 2), B.E. 2505 (1962), and the Rubber Replanting Aid
Fund Act (No. 3), B.E. 2518 (1975), of the Borrower, and as such
Act may be further amended from time to time;
(b)  "Fund" means Rubber Replanting Aid Fund, a statutory
body established pursuant to the Replanting Act;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Fund of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;


﻿-4-
(d) "Replanting Program" means the Fund's ongoing program
to assist rubber growers in the replacement of over-aged rubber
trees with high yielding rubber varieties and the introduction
of modern methods of rubber cultivation, in accordance with the
Replanting Act and the rules and regulations established pursuant
thereto;
(e) "Rubber Cess" means the levy imposed on rubber exports
from the Borrower's territory pursuant to Section 5 of the Re-
planting Act for the purpose of financing the Replanting Program;
(f) "MOAC" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
of the Borrower; and
(g) "RR" means Rubber Research Center, an administrative
unit within MOAC's Rubber Division.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Director of the Fund and such other person
or persons as the Director of the Fund may designate in writing
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause the Fund to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Fund to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to the Fund on a grant basis.
(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall cause RRC:(i) to expand and
reorient its research and other support activities for the Re-
planting Program; and (ii) to assist the Fund in discharging its
responsibility to carry out the training of Fund staff and rubber
growers participating in the Replanting Program.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the facil-
ities of the agricultural station of the MOAC at Kanthuli are
available to the Fund for training purposes.
(b) Within six months after the date of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary to


﻿-8-
ensure that the Fund shall be provided with an adequate and timely
supply of planting material satisfying the Fund's quality and hus-
bandry standards from the rubber nursery of the Government Rubber
Estates Organization.
S2ction 3.03. The Borrower shall employ a qualified and ex-
perienced official as Director of the Fund. Before making any
appointments to this position, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank the name and all pertinent information regarding the quali-
fications and experience of the person considered for such appoint-
ment and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on the qualifications and experience of such
person.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
within MOAC a Technical Assistance Coordinating Committee compris-
ing representatives of, respectively, the Fund, RRC, the experts
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement, and the De-
partment of Agricultural Extension of MOAC.
(b) The Technical Assistance Coordinating Committee referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be responsible for the
planning and coordination of technical assistance to the Fund under
the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creat-
ing or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any con-
stitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 10-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operat-
ing for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdi-
vision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1977, or
such other date as may be agreed with the Bank, submit to the Bank
for its coments, proposals for: (i) coordinating the land surveys
to be carried out by Fund staff in the course of the Replanting
Program with the establishment of occupancy rights of rubber growers;
and (ii) the acceleration of the issuance of title deeds to the
owners of rubber holdings participating in the Replanting Program.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) within twelve months after the
date of this Agreement, present proposals to the Bank for the ex-
pansion of port facilities in Southern Thailand to handle increases
in rubber exports from this area; and (ii) review said proposals in
consultation with the Bank and thereafter implement an expansion
program for port facilities in said area.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, at the request of the
Bank, review in consultation with the Bank and the Fund (i) the
rates of the Rubber Cess and of any other taxes or duties levied


﻿- 11 -
on the production, marketing and export of rubber; (ii) the incen-
tives for rubber growers to participate in the Replanting Program
including the amount and composition of the replanting grants
available to rubber growers pursuant to Section 8 of the Replant-
ing Act, taking into account the replanting objectives of the Proj-
ect, and of the Replanting Program as specified in Section 4.04 of
this Agreement, respectively; and (iii) the financing requirements
of the Fund to carry out the Project, and, thereafter, to continue
the implementation of the Replanting Program.
(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of any proposed action
to change the rates of the Rubber Cess or of any other taxes or
duties levied on the production, marketing and export of rubber, and
shall afford the Bank, prior to taking any such action, a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower thereon.
Section 4.04. To assist the Fund in carrying out the Replanting
Program in 1980 and thereafter, the Borrower shall take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision, if and when needed, of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Fund to implement the Replanting Program at an
annual rate of about 50,000 ha.


﻿- 12-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Fund shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of the Fund under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Fund will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Replanting Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed cr waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Fund to carry out the cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agree-
ment, or the structure, organization, powers, responsibilities,
or financial resources of the Fund shall have been changed other-
wise so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the
Fund to carry out its functions under the Replanting Act or the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The levy of the Rubber Cess shall have been suspended,
in whole or in part, pursuant to Section 6 of the Replanting Act
so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Fund
to carry out the Project.


﻿-13 -
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan made to the Bor-
rower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the CDC Loan Agreement; or
(B) the CDC Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
*                     the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of the
Fund under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof:


﻿-14-
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Fund have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Fund, and is legally binding upon the Fund in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 13, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok, Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-17-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By Is/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 18-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Fertilizers and            31,000,000         60% of foreign
chemicals                                    expenditures, or
60% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory, or
60% of local ex-
penditures ex-
store for im-
ported goods
(2) Vehicles                      300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures, or
100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory, or
65% of local ex-
penditures ex-
store for im-
ported vehicles
(3) Planting materials          2,200,000        40%
for rubber growers
under Part A(1) of
the Project


﻿-19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Cash grant payments         8,500,000         21%
to rubber growers
(first two install-
ments) under Part
A(l) of the Project
(5) Salaries of Fund            1,500,000         21%
field staff
(6) Consultants'                  200,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures or
85%
(7) Unallocated                 6,300,000
TOTAL      50,000,000


﻿-20-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods Gr services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawils shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Categories (3) and (4) unless said
expenditures are certified in a statement signed by the Deputy
Director for Administration and Finance of the Fund referred to


﻿-21 -
in Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement, confirming that the
Fund has on file certificates, signed by Field Inspectors of the
Fund, evidencing the provision of planting materials and cash
grant payments for which such expenditures have been made to rub-
ber growers participating in the Replanting Program.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
*        proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the implementation and expansion of the
Replanting Program from 1976 through mid-1980 and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   All the Fund's replanting activities from 1976 through
mid-1980 including in particular:
(1) initial replanting with high yielding budded
rubber of approximately 160,000 ha of old rub-
ber, and development and maintenance of such
replantings; and
(2) completion of development, and maintenance, of
young rubber on approximately 120,000 ha replanted
prior to 1976.
Part B:   The expansion of the rubber seedling production capacity
of the Fund to meet, together with the rubber seedling
production of private nurseries,of the Government Rubber
Estates Organization and of the nurseries of the MOAC's
Rubber Division, the requirements for high quality plant-
ing material for an annual replanting program of 50,000 ha
by 1978 and thereafter.
Part C:   The introduction of rubber yield stimulation techniques
for about 95,OUO ha of the area to be replanted pursuant
0


﻿-23 -
to Part A (1) hereof to increase rubber yields during
the final three years prior to replanting.
Part D:   The establishment of approximately 400 new group mar-
keting organizations to assist rubber growers in the
improvement of rubber processing and marketing
procedures.
Part E:   The expansion of training programs for Fund staff and
of training and counseling of rubber growers partici-
pating in the Replanting Program with regard to im-
proved methods of rubber planting, field maintenance,
tapping, latex processing, and marketing.
Part F:   The establishment of a monitoring system for the evalu-
ation of the socio-economic impact of the Replanting
Program and rubber growers' incentives and participa-
tion under said Program.
Part G:   The review and strengthening of the Fund's organization,
operating procedures, accounting system, data processing
and staffing.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 24                                    0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1983                                     855,000
June 1, 1984                                         890,000
December 1, 1984                                     930,000
June 1, 1985                                         970,000
December 1, 1985                                   1,010,000
June 1, 1986                                       1,055,000
December 1, 1986                                   1,095,000
June 1, 1987                                       1,145,000
December 1, 1987                                   1,195,000
June 1, 1988                                       1,245,000
December 1, 1988                                   1,295,000
June 1, 1989                                       1,350,000
December 1, 1989                                   1,410,000
June 1, 1990                                       1,470,000
December 1, 1990                                   1,530,000
June 1, 1991                                       1,595,000
Decem')er 1, 1991                                  1,665,000
June 1, 1992                                       1,735,000
December 1, 1992                                   1,810,000
June 1, 1993                                       1,885,000
December 1, 1993                                   1,965,000
June 1, 1994                                       2,050,000
December 1, 1994                                   2,135,000
June 1, 1995                                       2,225,000
December 1, 1995                                   2,320,000
June 1, 1996                                       2,420,000
December 1, 1996                                   2,525,000
June 1, 1997                                       2,630,000
December 1, 1997                                   2,740,000
June 1, 1998                                       2,855,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-25-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty years
before maturity                          7-1/2%
More than twenty years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


