Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22448
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30280; PPFI-Q0550; TF-25687; TF-24092; TF-21197; TF-23574; TF-21828)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION (US$17 million equivalent)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA RECONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 28, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 23, 2001)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM), equivalent 1:1 to
Deutsche Mark
KM 1 = US$ 0.44738
US$ 1 = 2.2359
FISCAL YEAR
January I  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH    - Bosnia and Herzegovina
DM    - Deutsche Mark
EC    - European Commission
IDA   - International Development Association
IFAD  - International Fund for Agriculture Development
OHR   - Office of the High Representative
PCU   - Project Coordination Unit
PMAU - Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit
TOR - Terms of Reference
RS    - Republika Srpska
UNHCR-United Nations High Comrissioner for Refugees
RAP   - Reconstruction Assistance Project
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortmnan
Sector Manager:    Margret C. Thalwitz
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:    Sarah J. Forster



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA RECONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   27
Annex 8. Borrowers' Contribution                                                        28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P048462                                       Project Name: REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
RECONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Sarah J. Forster                             TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: REPUBLIKA SRPSKA RECONSTRUCTION                L/C/TF Nuimtber: IDA-30280;
ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                           PPFI-Q0550;
TF-25687; TF-24092;
TF-21197; TF-23574;
TF-21828
CounttiyDepartment: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture; PY - Other Power & Energy
Conversion; UH - Urban Housing; WU - Urban
Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/10/96                                Effective: 04/20/98           04/17/98
Appraisal:  02/28/97                                 MTR: 09/15/99               10/15/99
Approval:  12/23/97                                Closing:  12/31/2000         03/31/2001
Bor r ower/ilmplenmenting Agency: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/MIN. OF FINANCE - REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Comntiy Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                    Christine Wallich
Sector Manager:      Margret Thalwitz                          Michele de Nevers
Team Leader at ICR:   Sarah Forster                            Michael Koch
ICR Primary Author:   Sarah Forster; Vesna Francic
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Developmenit Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrowver Pei jnrmance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Republika Srpska Reconstruction Assistance Project (RAP) was designed to address some of the most
urgent post-conflict reconstruction needs in Republika Srpska, one of the two government Entities that
form Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). During 1996, external assistance to Republika Srpksa (RS) was far
less than that to the Federation due to economic sanctions and issues of compliance by the RS Government
with the Dayton Peace Agreement. In 1997, as these issues were resolved, the international community
committed to increasing investment in RS so as to achieve a better balance of financial support and
economic recovery across the two Entities. The RAP was designed within this context. It was the first
stand-alone World Bank-financed operation for Republika Srpska, that aimed to assist RS "catch-up" with
the level of investment in the Federation. The Project was designed to provide emergency investment for
priority reconstruction needs in four key sectors: agriculture, housing, water and electric power.
The Project had four primary objectives linked to each of these sectors:
To assist economically-disadvantaged and war-affected farmers restart and strengthen their farming
activities.
To increase the quality and quantity of habitable public housing stock.
To restore water, sanitation and solid waste services to a level that would satisfy basic human needs,
mitigate public health risks and support the restart of economic activity.
To improve the reliability, availability and quality of electricity supply.
Secondary objectives were:
To raise agricultural and food production, help reduce the need for imported donor food aid, and
improve food security.
To initiate sustainable sector recovery by introducing cost recovery for infrastructure investments in
housing, water and sanitation, and electric power.
To help build up the institutional capacity required for developing and implementing housing, water
and sanitation, and electric power system repair programs.
To support the local economy, promote private construction enterprises, and create employment and
income through labor-intensive repair works.
To assist the RS authorities to develop a medium-term strategy for investments in the water sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during project implementation.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The Project had five components: (i) agriculture; (ii) housing; (iii) water and sanitation; (iv) electric power
supply; and (v) implementation support. The main elements of these five components were as follows:
Component 1. Agriculture (US$10.2 million)
The agriculture component had three sub-components targeted towards war-affected municipalities:
(i) Livestock Development -- purchase and distribution of breeding cattle to assist in the rebuilding of RS
herds for milk and meat production. A total of about 3,000 pregnant heifers were to be distributed on the
basis of in-kind supply and credit arrangements. The project also financed the cost of one year contracts
with veterinary services to monitor the health and productivity of the imported heifers, plus limited
equipment for veterinary stations.
(ii) Farm Mechanization -- purchase and distribution of farm mechanization equipment, including
motor-cultivators and tractors. The Project also financed the reception, assembly, initial servicing and
- 2 -



local transport of tractors to recipient farmers.
(iii) Farm Surveys and Technical Support -- detailed farm surveys to identify beneficiaries, and for
monitoring and evaluation purposes.
Component 2. Housing (US$15.2 million)
(i) Emergency Public Housing Repairs -- repair of war-damage to common elements of multi-story,
socially-owned apartment buildings. Target was to repair approximately 250 buildings containing some
4,500 residential units, representing some 12.5 % of the public housing stock in RS.
(ii) Technical Support -- technical support from an intemational housing advisor and local consultant to
carry out on-site quality control inspections.
Component 3. Water and Sanitation (US$22.1 million)
(i) Urgent Works -- rehabilitation and repair of water sources, supply pipelines, treatment plants,
distribution networks, cleaning and repair of sewers, and rehabilitation of sewage pumping stations in 18
selected municipalities.
(ii) Refuse Collection Equipment -- purchase of 21 refuse trucks and collection containers, with spare
parts, benefiting 20 RS municipalities.
(iii) Technical Support - technical assistance and consultant services for preparation of detailed design and
tender documents and on-site supervision of works.
(iv) Institutional Strengthening - support to Zavod za Vodoprivreda RS (ZVRS), the Institute for Water
Management, to strengthen its administrative and engineering capacity to manage and monitor project
implementation.
Component 4. Power (US$15.9 million)
(i) 110 kV Transmission Rehabilitation - rehabilitation of four substations with a total capacity of 200
MV, and repairs to six transmission lines with a total length of 113 km.
(ii) 35 kV Distribution Rehabilitation - rehabilitation of three substations with total capacity of 20 MVA.
(iii) Banja Luka Distribution Repairs - rehabilitation of the distribution network in the area of Banja Luka,
including installation of 4,000 household meters.
(iv) Telecommunications Repair - repair/replacement of telecom systems and equipment.
(v) Testing Equipment and Maintenance Tools - replacement of testing equipment/maintenance tools for
transmission and distribution facilities.
(vi) Engineering & Management - engineering services to prepare detailed designs and tender documents.
Component 5. Implementation Support (US$1.5 million)
(i) Set-up of the Project Coordination Unit under the Ministry of Finance including staffing, vehicles,
computers, fumiture, and office equipment.
(ii) Set-up of a Procurement Monitoring & Audit Unit (PMAU) to monitor and audit the procurement
activities of all government implementing agencies managing WB-financed projects. Financing provided
for local staff salaries, expatriate advisors, office equipment and incremental operating costs.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
and responsive to the RS Government's priorities. It provided much needed post-war investment in four
key sectors. All four components were well prepared with investments clearly identified, appropriate
institutional arrangements established that built on local capacity, and procurement plans prepared in
- 3 -



advance of effectiveness, such that project implementation generally went smoothly.
The only implementation difficulties experienced were in the power and agriculture components, which
with hindsight might have been avoided with more time spent on preparation and project design. However,
this was an emergency post-conflict operation, hence a balance needed to be kept between time taken on
preparation and rapidly delivering results on the ground.
In the power sector, certain technical specifications were not adequately defined. Hence, time was needed
to do further work on the technical specifications during implementation. This led to some procurement
delays, but none so serious as to delay the original implementation and disbursement schedule of the
project.
As for the agriculture component, the livestock development sub-component of the agriculture component
targeted two groups of farmers; small farmers with a "survival package" and commercial farmers with a
commercial package ". The project also financed veterinarian services, pasture improvement and milk
collection. As it turned out, uptake of the two packages by farmers favored the survival package over the
commercial package by a large majority - 98.5% of packages were of the survival variety. The farm
machinery sub-component provided tractors, farm equipment and initial support services. During project
implementation, the size of machinery procured was changed to smaller tractors and cultivators that were
more suitable to the farm size and topography of the project area. A possible design flaw in this component
was in providing the packages to farmers on a credit basis. War-affected farmers with one cow (the
survival package was a pregnant heifer) did not generate enough cash from selling the milk surplus beyond
household consumption. This was one factor behind the low repayment rates which were only about 20%
of the amount due. This raises the question about whether the project, which was designed to pursue a
mainly social objective, i.e. assistance for war-affected farm families, should have provided credit on
commercial terms. Implementing a credit-based agriculture project was made even more difficult by the
fact that other donors were giving grants for livestock in the same area. This highlights the need to clearly
distinguish between those beneficiaries for which grants and credits are more appropriate and develop
strategies in close coordination with other donors. And, if credits are to be provided, to ensure that
adequate institutional arrangements are in place to follow-up on credit repayment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemnent of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project was planned as a US$65 million
operation, with the expectation that donors would provide funding to finance the investments not covered
by the World Bank. Ultimately, a total of US$56.01 million was raised (86% of appraisal estimate), of
which US$40.04 was IDA and joint cofinancing combined, and US$15.61 was parallel financing (see
Section 5.4 for breakdown by donor). This ICR focuses on the investments funded by the World Bank and
joint cofinancing administered by the Bank.
Despite the lower amount of overall financing, the project was successful at achieving its primary
objectives, as summarized below:
Component 1: Agriculture. The objective was to assist economically-disadvantaged and war-affected
farmers restart and strengthen their farming activities.
This objective was achieved. Livestock and farm machinery were distributed to farmers in war-affected
municipalities, concentrated in the upland areas of the municipalities of Sipovo, Ribnik and Mrkonjic Grad.
The Project contributed towards helping these families rebuild their livelihoods after the war. The
- 4 -



distribution of livestock and farm machinery enabled farmers to restart farming activities, increase family
food production and sell modest surpluses for cash. Beneficiary surveys showed generally high levels of
satisfaction with the livestock and machinery provided. All heifers procured under the project produced
one calf in the first year, and by year 2 the average number of calves per heifer was 1.59. 26% of farmers
kept their calves, while 60% of farmers sold the calves for slaughter (the remainder either were aborted
(4%), died after birth (5%) or were sold to other farmers for further breeding (5%)). According to a farmer
survey, in most cases beneficiaries were satisfied keeping 1-2 livestock which was sufficient for household
needs, and were not interested in building a larger herd for more commercial production. Average daily
milk yield was 12 liters in 1999 and 10 liters in 2000. This is lower than the appraisal estimate and
thought to be due to inadequate livestock nutrition. As for the farm machinery, farmers were satisfied with
the equipment which was used for various agricultural purposes 84% of the time (the remainding tractors
were used for transport purposes). However, utilization rates for tractors are lower than expected and
hence increased production and earnings are also expected to be lower (see discussion of secondary
objectives).
Component 2: Housing. The objective was to increase the quality and quantity of public housing
stock.
This objective was fully realized. A total of 162 buildings have been repaired in 11 municipalities
benefiting 3,570 individual apartments. Repairs to a further 18 buildings are ongoing with Dutch
financing, such that by August 31, 2001, 180 buildings will have been repaired benefiting 4,000
apartments. Repair works were critical to improving the living conditions of the occupants and, in some
cases, making apartments habitable again through repairs to war-damaged roofs and exterior walls. The
repair works also increased the safety of the buildings and prevented them from further deterioration. The
Project did not finance interior works, but by weatherproofing the buildings, it facilitated interior works by
occupants, who invested their own funds, or got complementary donor assistance to rehabilitate the
interiors. The Project also did not get involved in occupancy issues given the focus on exterior works,
however, this was a sensitive area throughout project implementation (see Section 10 for discussion).
Component 3: Water and Sanitation: The objective was to restore water, sanitation and solid waste
services to a level that would satisfy basic human needs, mitigate public health risks and support the
return of economic activity.
This objective was achieved. Funds were invested in the rehabilitation of water and sanitation systems in
14 municipalities improving the reliability, quantity and quality of water for an estimated 416,400 people.
Water supply was restored to 24 hours supply for the first time since the war in many municipalities, and
water quality was much improved. Garbage trucks and waste collection containers were also provided to
11 municipalities, which improved waste collection services and decreased health risks from the build-up of
garbage on streets. Overall, the water investments were well targeted to address serious water and
sanitation system problems and had a significant impact on restoring water, sanitation and solid waste
services in the municipalities concerned.
Component 4: Power: The objective was to improve the reliability, availability and quality of
electricity supply.
This objective was achieved. Investments were made in the rehabilitation of the power system as planned,
leading to a dramatic drop in the number and duration of power outages, thus improving reliability and
availability of electricity supply in the Banja Luka area. Before the rehabilitation of Banja Luka 1
substation, for example, consumers suffered an average of 25 power cuts a year lasting 3 hours each.
Since rehabilitation, there has been only one very short power interruption. In the case of Banja Luka 5,
which provides power to the water system, no power cuts have occurred since rehabilitation. Investment in
new overhead lines of thicker material has also reduced power losses and improved availability. Overall,
- 5 -



the Project has significantly improved the quality of electricity supply to consumers in the Banja Luka area.
From an environmental perspective, impacts are generally positive. In the electric power component, old
equipment that was replaced was either delivered for recycling or transferred to other locations; the new
power lines have reduced transmission and distribution losses, thus reducing electricity generation. Since
60% of electric energy in RS is generated by thermal power plants, the reduced losses have contributed to
reduced fuel consumption at those plants and to reduced flue gas emissions. The water and sanitation
component also had clear environmental benefits by reducing water losses and improving water treatment.
The Project's secondary objectives were partially achieved. These went beyond the purely physical
reconstruction primary objectives towards longer-term development objectives of (i) raising agricultural
production; (ii) gradually introducing cost recovery into the housing, water and sanitation, and power
sectors; (iii) supporting the local economy through promotion of private construction enterprises and
creation of employment; and (iv) assisting the RS authorities to develop a medium-term strategy for
investments in the water sector.
Raising agricultural production. The Project helped beneficiary farmers increase crop and milk
production and significantly reduced dependency on humanitarian food aid. However, the small size of
farm operations was such that only a limited surplus to incremental food production entered commercial
channels. Farmers had neither the capacity nor the incentive to generate significant surpluses due to lower
than expected milk output per cow and limited access to well-priced inputs, processing facilities and
markets. According to a farmer survey, farmers sold only about 8% of their output, of which
approximately 6% to local dairies and 2% to neighbours and at the local market.
In order to assist increase milk collection and processing, the project financed the procurement of cooling
tanks. However, this did not have the desired impact. The cooling tanks were provided on a credit basis to
a local milk processing plant in Mrkonjic Grad. However, during project implementation the private dairy
plant closed down, largely due to bad management. Although the dairy owner is repaying the credit, the
cooling tanks are not in use. The PCU is in the process of trying to facilitate a sale of the cooling tanks to
a functioning dairy such that this becomes a productive investment and supports collection and processing
of milk in the target area.
Cost recovery. Clearly, cost recovery is a difficult goal to achieve in a country experiencing both
post-conflict recovery and an economic transition, where people have suffered a massive drop in incomes.
However, in all sectors the project aimed to raise awareness of the need to raise funds for the operation and
maintenance of investments and to encourage progress on both improving collection rates and setting
economic prices for public services.
In the water sector, progress was limited. The project design recognized that most utilities had not been
collecting fees during the war and it would take time to reach full cost recovery. Nevertheless, the project
required a commitment by participating municipalities to improve cost recovery. Each participating
municipality committed to a seven year action plan which laid out annual targets for both collection rates
and water/sanitation fees. Under these plans, municipalities and their utility companies aimed to achieve
100% collection rates and water fees ranging between 1.30-1.68 DM/m3 per municipality by 2005,
compared to collection rates of between 15-48% and fees of 0.07-0.85 DM/m3 in 1998.
Although the project did help increase awareness among local government officials and utility managers of
the need for utilities to raise funds through tariffs to operate and maintain water systems and make new
- 6 -



investments, actual performance in improving cost recovery was disappointing. No municipalities met their
collection targets. All municipalities aimed for collection rates between 70-90% by 2001. In actual,
collection rates ranged from 10-50%, with only four out of the 11 municipalities supported seeing any
increase in collection during the three-year project implementation period. Only two municipalities -- Novi
Grad and Sokolac -- met their tariff targets, however, the impact on their finances was undermined by a
simultaneous drop in collection rates. According to the PCU, water users were aware of the low collection
rates and unwilling to pay higher rates knowing that others were not. This suggests that a more appropriate
strategy would be to focus on improving collection rates, prior to raising tariffs, as was advocated by the
PCU but not always heeded.
In the power sector, at the distribution level, the picture is much better. There have been significant
improvements in cost recovery and overall revenue earnings by Elektrokrajina, the power distribution
company, during project implementation. Although the electricity tariff level has remained about the same
since 1996 (10.2 ph/kWh or about 5 cents/kWh), Elektrokrajina has been able to multiply their distribution
fee by six in terms of $/kWh of electricity consumed. The fee multiplication has taken place as a result of
the following trends during the period 1996-2000: (i) non-technical losses dropped from a level of 13% to
less than 1%, (ii) the tariff collection rate improved from 45% to 79%, and (iii) sales of services increased
to cover about 42% of revenues. Such services consist of connection of new customers and repair of
customers' electric equipment. Elektroprenos, the transmission company, has not benefited from increased
collection rates or lower technical losses, however.
In housing, at the time of appraisal, it was envisaged that cost recovery for the investments (and repayment
of the IDA credit) would be made through incremental increases in rental charges over a 30 year period.
However, there have been very limited increases in rental collection in the target municipalities during the
project period - collection rates are estimated to be about 20 percent. This is for three main reasons:
First, the target municipalities have large numbers of displaced persons and refugees who were given
temporary occupancy of apartment buildings during the war and exempted from paying rent by local
authorities. In some municipalities, such as Derventa, probably 80-90% of occupants are not paying
rent.
Second, in the small municipalities, where the project largely focused, the institutional system for
collecting rents collapsed during the war. Many of these municipalities do not have housing companies
responsible for regulating and collecting rents, as exist in the larger towns, such as Banja Luka.
Third, little effort was made by the local authorities to tackle the situation as the RS Government has
plans to privatize all the housing stock. The legislation to implement privatization is still in process of
development. Once privatized, private owners will become responsible for maintenance of the
buildings. Government's focus during project implementation was on passing the privatization
legislation and establishing a housing fund to manage the privatization revenues for future investment
in new housing and housing maintenance.
Supporting the Local Economy. This secondary objective was achieved. As originally planned, the
project had a significant impact on local economies in terms of promoting the private construction industry
and supporting the creation of employment and income-generating activities. Almost all operational
construction firms in RS (about 42) were engaged in rehabilitation work under the housing component. For
many workers in these firms, these contracts were their first source of income after the war. Overall, it is
estimated that a total of 20,000 person-months of employment were created.
Medium-term Strategy for Water Sector. This objective was ambitious and was not actively pursued
given that other donors, primarily the European Commission and USAID, had stand-alone water sector
investment projects that were better placed to provide assistance in this area. However, the Bank and the
- 7 -



PCU participated in water sector coordination meetings throughout the project implementation period and
provided input on strategic thinking in the water sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The following outputs were achieved by component:
Component 1: Agriculture. As planned, this component provided for financing of livestock and farm
machinery. The completed 1998/1999 livestock imports (IFAD financed) included 3,876 pregnant heifers,
25 breeding bulls, 6,880 sheep and 338 rams. Heifer imports involved three different breeds (Simmental,
Brown Swiss, Gray Tyrol) and were accomplished with very low rates of mortality. The completed
1998/1999 program of sheep involved local breed Pramenka and rams of both the local breed Pramenka
and Virtenberg from Austria. Animals were distributed to ten eligible municipalities. All livestock involved
were distributed on a credit basis.
Farm mechanization equipment was supported under the project, comprising tractors, motocultivators and
related implements. The completed 1998/2000 importation program included 55 tractors (16 kW and 31
kW), 336 motor-cultivator sets (IDA55, Italy 336) including 402 implements, trailers, ploughs, rotary
cultivators; 70 mowers and 657 miscellaneous implements. The machinery was distributed to 753 farmers
in seven eligible municipalities. The Project Coordination Unit in cooperation with municipal authorities
distributed the machinery to farmers on credit.
The project also financed one year of veterinary services for beneficiary farmers, four field vehicles for the
veterinary services in the target area, as well as veterinary equipment for the veterinary station in Ribnik
municipality.
Component 2: Housing. Public housing repairs were carried out in practically the expected quantity and
on schedule when compared with plans at appraisal, within a much reduced total component funding
envelope of US$11.0 million, compared to the appraised financing needs of US$15.25. Financing for this
component came from IDA (US$5.0 million), Japan (US$4.0 million) and The Netherlands (US$1.8
million). A total of 162 apartment buildings, located in eleven municipalities and containing 3,570 flats,
benefited from repairs under this project component, affecting an estimated 14,280 residents. Recently
approved grant funds from the Netherlands of an additional US$1 million will enable repairs of additional
apartment buildings in three municipalities in eastern Republika Srpska. These repair works are expected
to be completed by August 31, 2001. Including these ongoing works, it is expected that a total of 180
apartment buildings, containing 4,000 flats, affecting an estimated 16,000 residents will benefit from
repairs under this project component.
Component 3: Water. IDA financing was used to carry out urgent works for the provision of water
supply and wastewater in 14 eligible municipalities. A further 5 municipalites benefited from investment by
the EU and Norway. As planned, this component provided for financing of materials such as pipes,
fittings, spare parts, water meters and other repair materials needed to carry out urgent repair and
rehabilitation works. Investments in water supply were largely related to rehabilitation and reconstruction
of networks, water sources and treatment facilities. Wastewater investments were principally for
rehabilitation and repair of collection systems. Details of the urgent works are provided in Annex 8. Refuse
collection equipment was financed under this component. Twelve refuse trucks, 750 refuse collection
containers and spare parts were distributed in eleven municipalities. Technical assistance and consultant
services for preparation of detailed designs and tender documents, for on-site supervision of rehabilitation
works and of development of five urgent studies were also financed under this component.
- 8 -



Component 4: Electric Power. The component provided for financing of rehabilitation and upgrading of
two 110 kV and one 35 kV substations in Banja Luka area, which are key power stations in the power
distribution network. Investments largely related to rehabilitation of MV and LV networks and distribution
substations. Financing was also provided for rehabilitation of telecommunication systems in the distribution
network. In addition, financing was provided for a computer system for Elektrokrajina that handles billing
and collection, material and financial accounting, as well as having a staffing database and staff
performance monitoring tool. Staff were trained on the system during implementation, and it is now fully
operational and having a very positive impact on the efficiency of Elektrokrajina's operations.
Component 5: Implementation Support. This component financed the successful start-up and
establishment of the Project Coordination Unit, including staff salaries, equipment, vehicles and office rent.
Given the high caliber of the local staff, less funds were spent on foreign TA than originally planned.
The component also financed the establishment of the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit (PMAU)
to oversee all procurement carried out under World Bank financed and administered projects in Republika
Srpska. The PMAU staff comprised one foreign Consultant and five national experts financed by a
Swedish trust fund administered by the Bank. The objective of the PMAU was to detect as early as
possible any mistakes or irregularities in the procurement activities within the various Procurement
Implementation Units (PIU) for different Bank projects and to provide recommendations and instructions to
improve future procurement procedures. During its contract period (April 1998-Dec. 2000), PMAU staff
reviewed 60 procurement cycles within 10 different projects. This has resulted in some 214 monitoring
reports related to 293 different steps in the procurement cycle. Since the project counterparts in Republika
Srpska were all new to Bank procurement guidelines and procedures, the monitoring and auditing carried
out by the PMAU not only provided guidance to PIUs on how to carry out procurement in line with Bank
guidelines, but also had a positive impact on project implementation by solving various issues before they
became implementation bottlenecks.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
In the Project Appraisal Document it was estimated that the agricultural component would yield economic
rates of return in excess of 12 percent on the grounds that the livestock would enable farmers to increase
milk and meat production such that households could replace purchased food items and sell surplus
production. Farm machinery was expected to enable cultivation of previously fallow land and increases in
production of food crops (mainly cereals and potatoes).
The actual economic rate of return for the livestock sub-component cannot be calculated due to lack of
detailed production and price data. It is probably less than the "above 12%" estimated during appraisal due
to lower-than-estimated milk yield, but how much less is not known due to lack of data. While about 60%
of farmers were unable to sell their milk surplus, because of lack of access to the market, the project
generated incremental production of milk and meat for home and neighborhood/extended family
consumption, as well as a limited surplus for sale. This production should be valued as a benefit even
though not sold.
Although the PCU carried out a farmer survey as part of their monitoring and evaluation process, it
provides insufficient data to carry out a full analysis of the incremental increases in production derived
from the farm machinery financed by the Project. Overall farmers' utilization rates of the tractors, to date,
are low, with an average recorded working time of only 155 hours per year, about one-third of appraisal
estimates. According to the PCU, this low usage is partially explained by the fact that the area is hilly and
even pre-war there was relatively low usage of farm machinery in the area, particularly tractors. The
farmer survey shows that farmers also eamed less than expected income from renting out their farm
-9-



machinery for plowing and transport services for other farmers. According to the PCU, this is due to the
lack of tradition of such farmer cooperation in the area and because other farmers could not afford to pay
for such services. Hence, although impact and economic returns were positive, they are likely less than
expected at appraisal. These findings support the fact that it was a good decision to switch financing from
tractors to smaller farm machinery, such as cultivators, which are more productively used. As for the
tractors, it is expected that their usage will increase in the future as the local economy and demand for
agricultural products picks up.
Net present value/economic rates of return were not calculated for the other three components, and have not
been calculated for this ICR due to the lack of data. However, generally, it is considered that the economic
rates of return for these investments were high, particularly for the water and power investments, that
resulted in major improvements in the reliability and quality of water and power supply both for household
and business consumers. Some estimates of the economic benefits of the power component are provided in
Annex 4.
4.4 Financial rate of retirn:
A financial rate of return was not originally calculated for this project, and has not been calculated for the
ICR due to the very different nature of each component and the lack of data.
4.5 Instittutional development impact.
The Project did not have major institutional development goals. However, it did have a positive
institutional impact particularly in the water and power sectors.
In the water sector, the main implementing agency for the Project was the Institute for Water Management
(ZVRS) which developed capacity in investment management and the procurement and supervision of
works through involvement with the Project. ZVRS had responsibility for preparing TORs for local design
and supervision consultants, preparing bidding documents, evaluating the bids and supervising the works.
The Project was also instrumental in raising participating municipalities' and utilities' awareness of the
importance of improving their financial situation so as to be able to operate and maintain their current
water systems and invest in system improvements in the future. The Bank required all participating
municipalities and utilities to enter into time-bound Action Plans with monitorable targets for progressive
achievement of full cost recovery, based on a combination of improved collection rates and tariff levels. As
described in section 4. 1, actual implementation of these plans was mixed. However, the project did help
raise awareness of cost recovery issues. The project did not have the resources to do much more than this.
However, other donors in BiH, particularly USAID, are investing signficantly in improving the institutional
and financial capacity of water utilities.
In the power sector, the main implementing agencies and beneficiaries of the Project were Elektroprenos
Banja Luka, the transmission company for RS, and Elektrokrajina, the distribution company for the Banja
Luka area. The institutional capacity of Elektrokrajina particularly benefited from investment under the
Project in a computerized Business Information System. This computer system was installed and staff
trained in its use during project implementation. Use of the system has significantly increased the
efficiency and quality of billing and collecting, recording and analysis of customer complaints, material and
financial accounting, staffing database, and performance monitoring for management staff, generally
leading to better institutional capacity of Elektrokrajina to provide high quality services to its customers.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The impact of the war was still very present throughout project implementation and this affected the overall
outcome, particularly in terms of reaching the targets related to cost recovery. Large numbers of the
population in the target areas were displaced persons or refugees in the process of rebuilding their lives
after the war and with limited means to pay for services.
5.2 Factors genetalli subject to goi'ernment control:
The Government was supportive of the Project, however, the Ministry of Finance, under whose auspices
the PCU was established, failed to take a very active role in project implementation. On occasion, this was
detrimental to project implementation and frustrating for the PCU Director. One specific example is the
failure of the Government to support the PCU in following-up with Elektroprivreda as regards fulfilling
their counterpart funding commitment. The government also failed to take a clear public stand on
supporting water utilities in their efforts to enforce payment of water bills, particularly by state-owned
institutions. On these two issues, political factors outweighed economic factors in the Government's
decision-making approach.
5.3 Factors genierally subject to implementing agency control:
The PCU managed the project well and was proactive in addressing issues that might have affected project
implementation. The preparation and improvement of the technical specifications, especially in the power
component, took longer than originally envisaged, directly effecting the project implementation schedule of
this component. However, this was an issue that was the responsibility of the PCU, the power companies
and the World Bank and addressed jointly.
5.4 Costs azd financing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$65 million, of which IDA financed US$16.5 million, and the
balance of US$48 million was from various donor sources. While all four components were implemented,
total project financing fell short of expectations and eventually amounted to US$56.01 million (86 percent
of target). This primarily led to a reduction in the scope of the agriculture and housing components.
Project and financing costs are shown in Annex 2.
The financing breakdown by source, including both joint and parallel cofinancing, was as follows (all
figures in US Dollars): World Bank 16.5 million; European Union 12.7 million; IFAD 5.4 million; Norway
8.9 million; Japan 4.0 million; Italy 3.1 million; The Netherlands 1.8 million; Austria 0.5 million; RS
Government 3.11 million.
The credit was disbursed practically on time and in accordance with the original disbursement schedule. A
three-month extension of the credit was approved to allow for expected late payment for two items of
equipment. All donor grant funds, administered by the World Bank through trust fund arrangements, were
fully disbursed by or before the respective closing dates.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale Jor sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated as borderline "Likely", with sustainability defined as the
probability of the Project maintaining the achievements generated or expected to be generated in relation to
its objectives over the economic life of the Project. Sustainability prospects vary from one sector to another
as follows:
- 11 -



Component 1: Agriculture - sustainability is rated as Uncertain for this component. It could be changed
to Likely, if corrective actions are taken to increase the milk yield and improve the low level of utilization
of farm machinery. These are long-term investments and can be expected to provide benefits for several
years. Milk and cattle production under the project has only been underway for one or two years at most,
and farmers have only produced one or two calves. Cows can produce a calf each year for at least 6-7
years, and the size of the small herds could increase, if heifers are kept for further milk production. In
terms of corrective actions, a program to help farmers improve livestock nutrition would lead to better milk
yields and calving rates, and milk processing facilities and a collection system could be reestablished.
Thus, it is still too early to tell how successful or sustainable the small dairy operations are. Farm
machinery can last 10 years or more, if it is well-maintained. Utilization of machinery could be increased
by assisting farmers in developing feasible rental models. Sustainability of investment under the project
thus should not be judged by the low credit repayment rate. As to the low repayment rate, this may be
partly because cash flows are low at present (the corrective measures would increase cash flow) and partly
because farmers may see the livestock and farm machinery as support from the Government that they need
not repay, given the extent of their losses during the war and expectations that the Government should
assist them.
Component 2: Housing - sustainability for this component is rated Uncertain. Technical audits
confirmed that the repairs were of high quality, hence their benefits should last for the short-to-medium
term. It is hard to determine the long-term sustainability of this component, given that the housing stock
will soon be privatized. In theory, privatization should make the investments more sustainable. However,
it is too early to judge how effectively private homeowners will organize themselves to maintain these large
buildings and whether they will have the financial means to do so. More policy and institutional
development is likely to be required in the area of housing management to ensure that these buildings are
adequately repaired and maintained over the long-term.
Component 3: Water - sustainability is rated as borderline Unlikely/Likely for this component. The
physical achievements of the project will be sustained in the short-to-medium term given that the utilities
have the technical skills to operate and maintain the systems and equipment. Longer-term sustainability,
however, will depend upon the adequacy of funds for effective maintenance and replacement. Cost
recovery performance has been weak in the majority of benefiting municipalities. Efforts have been made
to improve tariffs but collections still only average around 50 percent in most utilities. More needs to be,
and is being done, to increase the capacity of utilities. Overall improvements in the economic conditions in
the country would further help the situation. Equally important, is the political will and support of the RS
and local governments to allow utility companies to collect arrears from business consumers and public
institutions and state-owned companies.
Component 4: Power - sustainability is rated as Likely given that the benefits of the investment program
to residents and local industry will last 40 years or longer. As regards the power companies financial
situation and capacity to maintain investments, the situation is mixed but with positive trends.
Elektroprenos (the transmission company) is still operating at a loss, which in 2000 was recorded as KM
23.87 million, but financial trends are improving. The financial situation of Elektrokrajina, the distribution
company, has already improved significantly. In 2000, Elektrokrajina recorded a net operating profit of
KM 0.6 million. This, combined with Elektrokrajina's demonstrated commitment to maintaining high
levels of service, provides assurances that the equipment will be properly operated and maintained.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that had overall responsibility for project implementation is in the
process of closing down and handing over any outstanding responsibilities to the appropriate Government
- 12 -



agencies.
In the water and power sectors, investments financed under the Project were fully integrated into the regular
operation of the utility companies from the start of Project implementation. These companies - ZVRS and
the municipal utility companies in the case of water, and Elektroprenos and Elektrokrajina in the case of
electric power - will have responsibility for ongoing operations and maintenance of the investments. It is
expected that the municipal utilities will also continue to implement their cost recovery plans.
In the agriculture sector, the plan is to mainstream the agriculture investments into the operations of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources. This Ministry has already taken the initiative to
take over responsibility from the PCU of following-up on the loan repayments under the Agriculture
Component. The Ministry has also offered two PCU agriculture unit staff positions with the Ministry. This
is a positive development as it means that the experience and capacity gained during implementation of the
RAP will be transferred to the Ministry. It is also expected that the Ministry of Agriculture will be
directly responsible for implementation of a new World Bank-financed agriculture project, currently under
preparation. The agriculture team has learned lessons from the RAP agriculture component, and the new
project will focus on the commercialization of agriculture through a more integrated approach.
In the meantime the Ministry can play a significant role in helping project farmers to increase productivity
by taking action to improve the sustainability of the agricultural activities financed under the Agriculture
Component (para 6.1). In addition to providing animal husbandry assistance to farmers, the Ministry
should get assistance in evaluating and modifying the credit packages offered to small farmers so that they
fit farmer capacity to repay and provide incentive for repayment. Some measure of loan repayment in kind
and/or forgiveness should also be considered.
In the housing sector, the public housing that was repaired under the Project is in the process of being
privatized. Once privatized, responsibility for repaying the portion of the IDA credit invested in housing
will be transferred from the benefiting municipalities to the government Housing Fund and the property will
become part of the private, rather than the public, domain.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance as regards lending is rated as Satisfactory. The Project was well identified. It
was responsive to the RS Government's priority of investing in restoring basic services. Project
preparation and appraisal were carried out in close cooperation with the Government and took into account
technical issues, as well as a good focus on ensuring the institutional capacity was in place to implement
the project in the form of an independent Project Coordination Unit in partnership with relevant sectoral
ministries and institutions. However, the secondary objectives may have been unrealistically ambitious
once the country context is taken into account.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision by the Bank is rated as Satisfactory. During the first two years of implementation, a
field-based staff member was the Team Leader. This allowed for rapid and effective project start-up.
Being based in the field, the Team Leader had almost daily contact with the PCU and provided sound
guidance and advice and very close supervision. In late 1998, another staff member took over project
supervision for a short time, with responsibility then transferred to a third staff member in mid-1999. This
change of staff meant that there was a brief hiatus in supervision missions. However, continuity on the
Bank side was provided by the project officer, based in the field who kept in close contact with the PCU
- 13 -



throughout project implementation. Generally, supervision was effective at identifying and addressing
implementation issues in a proactive way. Some issues, particularly related to the impact and sustainability
of the agriculture component, were not fully addressed as they required inputs beyond the scope of the
Project. However, these issues should be addressed in a planned follow-up agriculture operation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated as Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance as regards project preparation was Satisfactory. The RS Government
showed a strong commitment to preparing the project and ensured that government agencies were fully
involved in the project design and prioritization and selection of investments. The Government further
demonstrated their commitment through the timely appointment of a capable Project Director. However,
project approval and effectiveness was delayed because of project-related conditionality that had to be
fulfilled prior to Board presentation. Conditionality included the requirement that the RS Government
establish an external debt servicing mechanism and issue a satisfactory decree liberalizing the trade regime
of RS. These conditions were eventually met, however, there was an eight-month gap between appraisal
and Board approval, and a further four month delay until project effectiveness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as marginally Satisfactory. The Government
supported the Project, however, they were not particularly responsive at following-up on issues that the
Project Coordination Unit or the Bank raised as requiring direct government attention during
implementation. One example is the failure of the Government to get Elektroprivreda to fulfill its financial
obligation to provide counterpart financing for the Power Component, and their lack of commitment to cost
recovery in the water sector.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The performance of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for project implementation is rated as
Highly Satisfactory. The PCU had an extremely capable manager and well-skilled staff who carried out all
project activities in a very professional manner. The PCU had a department for each project component
with each department headed by a technically qualified professional, as well as a Central Support Unit,
responsible for finance, procurement and administration. During the start-up phase, foreign consultants
provided assistance in setting-up systems and providing training in financial management and procurement.
Other than this, long-term technical assistance was not required. Project staff carried out their tasks well in
terms of providing inforrnation and guidance to participating municipalities and the water and power
companies, explaining Bank procurement procedures and supervising project implementation. Project staff
also paid good attention to monitoring and evaluating the results of the Project, and commissioned a
beneficiary survey for the Agriculture Component and a Quality of Works evaluation of the Housing
Component.
7.7 Overall Borrower perforlnance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Grant, not credit, finance should be considered for initial social assistance in agriculture in
post-conflict situations. Because market conditions and production support may not exist in the aftermath
of a conflict situation, initial assistance to war-affected farmers should not be on a strictly commercial
- 14 -



basis. Under RAP, repayments of the credits were extremely low. This is due to a combination of factors,
including very low-incomes among some recipients; limited possibilities for sale of farm production;
expectations that the credits would be written-off and ultimately Government would provide as a grant
given the circumstances; and lack of serious pressure on debtors and sanctions in the case of default.
Judging from this experience, it appears to be more advisable to provide initial assistance on a grant basis.
Follow-up assistance could be provided on commercial terms and linked to the earlier grant based on
recipient success in livestock and crop production. With recovery underway, this second stage can be
modeled on successful microcredit programs for lending to non-bankable clients, including in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Key elements include carrying out client character and cash-flow analysis at the time of loan
approval to ensure that the credit recipient has the income to repay the loan and ensuring appropriate and
sustainable institutional arrangements for loan repayment.
In agriculture, attention to project design and implementation should always be given to linkages
among producers, processors and markets even if the project has social assistance objectives.
Without careful attention, unintended consequences (e.g., the inability of farmers to market surplus) and
failure to meet project objectives (sustainable small dairy operations) are likely. Even if grant finance is
initially used, the ability of farmers to profitably market their surplus will give them the incentive to
increase the size of their operations.
In all sectors, greater development impacts might have been achieved with complementary
investments in technical assistance and more focus on institutional strengthening. For example,
provision of resources to farmers would have benefited from accompanying technical support, in the form
of professional advice to farmers on such issues as animal nutrition and husbandry and machinery
utilization. In the water sector, more impact might have been achieved on strengthening water utility
management and cost recovery with greater institutional investment. Likewise in the housing sector, the
Government could have benefited from more advice on housing sector reform. However, this
recommendation is made with caution. Combining a focus on achieving physical results on the ground to
restore basic services in an emergency situation with institutional investments might undermine the speed
and effectiveness of a post-conflict operation. But it is important to take a long-term development
perspective even immediately after a conflict and consider how to strengthen institutions through
complementary and phased investments.
In the housing sector, more consideration might have been given to occupancy issues, given their
sensitivity. This is discussed in Section 10. The design of the project meant that the Bank had little
leverage over municipalities in the case that they obstructed return of original residents to their homes.
Some outside observers argued that the Bank should have conditioned assistance to implementation of the
property legislation. This does raise the issue of the degree to which the Bank can make use of
non-economic conditionality to support social reconciliation in post-conflict situation.
Reliance on Local Counterparts is a Means of Strengthening Institutional Capacity. Project
implementation was the responsibility of a stand-alone Project Coordination Unit established under the
Ministry of Finance. This arrangement had pros and cons. On the positive side, relying on local personnel
and institutions for the management and implementation of the project delivered good results in a
cost-effective manner. The total project management costs for the three-year implementation period were
US$1.3 million, amounting to only 2.3% of the overall investment cost. This is ten times lower than costs
of foreign management relied upon by some bilateral donors. Furthermore, using local management and
technical expertise clearly helps build local know-how and skills. This investment in PCU staff has paid
off with some PCU staff now transferring to government ministries and others taking good positions in the
private sector. A lesson learned is that the use of foreign consultants should be limited to areas where they
- 15-



clearly add value and build in an objective of training local staff to take over their role. On the negative
side, it is arguable that the use of a stand-alone PCU diverts attention from building much-needed capacity
within government ministries and public institutions. This was not such an issue with this project, given
that the PCU worked very closely with relevant government ministries and agencies, and given that key
staff, particularly in the agriculture and water sector, have now transferred to government institutions
bringing their knowledge and experience under the project with them.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's report is attached as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Seven cofinanciers provided financing for investments under the Project - EU, IFAD, and the Governments
of Austria, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands and Norway. The funds of the Governments of Italy, the
Netherlands and Norway were entrusted to IDA as the administrator; all other funds were parallel financing
and not subject to Bank management and supervision.
The availability of donor cofinancing was critical to achieving the large project scope. Donor cooperation
was generally good, particularly with the Norwegians as well as the three donors that provided joint
cofinancing through WB-administered trust funds. During the ICR mission, the project team met with
representatives of Norplan, responsible for management of the Norwegian funds, and also sought feedback
from the Dutch, Italian and Japanese Govenmments.
Feedback was generally positive. Cooperation between the Norwegian Government/Norplan, the PCU and
the Bank worked well and Norplan expressed their satisfaction at this and the good coordination of funding
at the municipal level. The Dutch and Italian government representatives also expressed positive feedback
on the project implementation performance and outcomes.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments.
10. Additional Information
Housing Occupancy Issues. Housing occupancy is a major issue in BiH where there was massive
population displacement during the war. In the Project area, some target municipalities were
Bosniak/Croat-majority prior to the war, but were taken over by Serbs. In these municipalities, the local
authorities assigned empty apartments in the target apartment buildings to displaced Serbs.
Under the Dayton Peace Accords, a commitment was made to respect the right of people to return (Annex 7
of the Peace Agreement). It took time and intemational pressure to get the Entity Governments to pass
property legislation allowing pre-war residents to return and reclaim their property. This legislation was
passed during the project implementation period. It was the Bank/PCU position that it was the Entity and
municipal governments' responsibility to implement property legislation and resolve occupancy issues.
That said, efforts were made to ensure that investments were not made in municipalities that were opposed
to allowing original residents to retum. The Project team and the PCU maintained regular contacts with
international agencies, such as OHR and UNCHR, which had a direct mandate to monitor implementation
of the property legislation. These agencies were informed of project activities and provided guidance to the
Bank to ensure that investments did not benefit municipalities that were obstructive to the Dayton Peace
Agreement and refugee return. This generally worked well, other than in Derventa where the municipality
remained obstructive of return and there was criticism of Bank-financed investment benefiting this
- 16 -



municipality.
Towards the end of the project, as returns increased, selection of apartment buildings were linked to refugee
return. Ongoing investments in Eastern RS financed by a Dutch grant, for example, are all in
municipalities where returns are ongoing and repair of the buildings will benefit returnees.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Meet between 5 and 10 percent of the urgent                                 Likely achieved.
needs to install farm power and provide
livestock breeding material.
Generate up to 4,200 new permanent rural                                    No estimate available.
jobs.
Bank-financed tractors to result in                                        Farm survey indicates lower than expected
incremental cultivabon of some 5,000 ha of                                  increases in cultivation.
land; incremental production of 15,000 tons
of grains and 3,000 tons of potatoes.
IFAD financed livestock to result in                                       Achieved.
incremental production of milk, cheese and
meat.
Retum to habitable standards of some 250                                    Nearly fully achieved - 72% of target
buildings containing an estimated 4,500 flats,                              achieved with 74% financing (180 buildings
or 12.5 percent of the total war-damaged                                   repaired to habitable standard containing
public housing stock in RS.                                                 4,000 flats).
Average cost of repairs of US$3,300 per                                    Actual average cost of repairs of approx.
flat.                                                                       US$3,000 per flat (DEM 6,002).
Generation of up to 25,000 man-months of                                   No reliable estimate available, however, it is
temporary construction labor.                                               estimated that at least 20,000 man-months of
labor were created.
Reduction of the amounts of                                                 Achieved.
unaccounted-for water and a related decline
in the usage of electric energy and
chemicals.
Institutional strengthening of ZVRS in RS.                                 Achieved.
Restoration of reliable electric power supply                               Achieved.
in the Banja Luka region, using a least-cost
approach towards reconstruction.
- 18-



Output Indicators:
kcrlM atrix                        Project.( In last PSR                 A    LtuYLat Estlmaft
Purchase of 3,000 pregnant heifers.                                         Purchase of 3,876 pregnant heifers, 25
breeding bulls, 6,880 sheep and 338 rams.
Purchase of 400 motor cultivators and 150                                   Purchase of 336 motor cultivators (84% of
tractors.                                                                  target) and 55 tractors (37% of target), plus
implements with 72% of planned financing.
Decision made to shift financing to motor
cultivators given higher farmer demand.
Repair of 250 buildings containing 4,500                                    Repair of 180 buildings containing 4,000
units.                                                                      units (72% of target achieved with 74%
financing).
Urgent rehabilitation works in 18                                           Urgent rehabilitation works in 19
municipalites.                                                              municipalities, of which 14 financed by IDA
and 5 by EU and Norway.
Refuse collection equipment for 21                                          Refuse collection equipment for 11
municipalities.                                                             municipalities. 52% of target with only 47%
of financing.
Repair of 4 transmission and 3 distribution                                 Repair of 2 transmission and 1 distribution
substations.                                                                substation. Less than planned due to 10%
financing gap.
Repair of telecommunication system.                                         Achieved as planned.
Purchase of testing equipment and                                           Achieved as planned.
maintenance tools.
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
PrjctCs y C      .t       ; _    U1S$ miUlon    UP  ilinl
l. Agriculture                                      10.21           7.40             72
2. Housing                                          15.25          11.31             74
3. Water and Sanitation                             22.13          21.73             99
4. Electric Power                                   15.93          14.27             90
5. Implementation Support                            1.48           1.30             88
Total Baseline Cost                                 65.00          56.01
Total Project Costs             65.00          56.01
Total Financing Required             65.00          56.01
Physical Contingencies of 3% on goods and 7% on works are included. No price contingencies have been
applied given the expected short disbursement period of this emergency project.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E ;0tp,    SP  ~~~PrC-- ee Metho
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         8.70         27.10        35.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.70)        (0.00)       (8.70)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         6.20         18.10        24.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.20)        (0.00)       (6.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.00         2.80         4.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0. 10 )      (0.00)       (0. 1 0)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         17.00        48.00        65.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (17.00)       (0.00)      (17.00)
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditr. Category         ICB         Pce            Mether           N.B.F.      Total Cost
ICB        t4~~C8       Other'     _____
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           15.00         11.90         26.90
(0.00)         (0.00)        (9.40)         (0.00)        (9.40)
2. Goods                        4.10           0.00           5.00          16.10         25.20
(2.00)         (0.00)        (4.00)         (0.00)        (6.00)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           1.00           1.80          2.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)         (0.00)        (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.70           0.41          1.11
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)         (0.00)        (0.60)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        4.10           0.00           21.70         30.21         56.01
(2.00)         (0.00)        (14.60)        (0.00)        (16.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through International Shopping, national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services.
Incremental Operating Costs are incorporated into Miscellaneous.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
__nk      Govt      COF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
1. Agriculture           1.00                           1.00                6.40    100.0
2. Housing               5.70                 4.00      5.50                 5.81    96.5          145.3
3. Water& Sanitation     5.00                 3.00      4.90                16.83    98.0          561.0
4. Electric Power        4.00       3.93      11.93     4.00       3.93      6.34    100.0  100.0  53.1
5. Implem. Support       1.30                 0.10      1.20                 0.10    92.3          100.0
Total                    17.00               40.20      16.60      4.30     19.50    97.6           48.5
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not undertaken for the agriculture, housing and water components. However,
for the power component, some examples of the economic benefits of the Project can be provided based on
the data available at the time of the ICR:
Rehabilitation of Banja Luka 1 and 5 substations has resulted in savings from avoided power outages.
Similar benefits can be expected from Banja Luka 2 and 3 and Sitary substations later on once equipment
installation is completed.
Transmission losses are based on a rough estimates both from fuel balance (environmental) and from an
economic point of view.
Economic assumptions:
The transmitted electric energy to Banja Luka is 1,300 GWh;
The transmission losses are 4%, equal to 52 GWh;
Expected reduction in transmission losses is 10%, equal to 5.2 GWh;
The saved losses could be sold to consumers at a price of 0.05 cents/kWh, equal to $50/MWh; and
The savings are $0.32 million per year.
Fuel balance:
The impact of reduced transmission losses to fuel consumption in RS is based on assumption as follows:
About 50% of electricity is generated by thermal plants and the remainder by hydro plants;
The efficiency of thermal plants is 35%;
Economic price of coal is $8.6 per MWh; and
The benefit is $0.077 million per year.
- 22 -



Less outages at Banja Luka 1 Substation
1996         25 outages
3 hours each
2000 MWh undelivered each year
2000          4 outages
0.01 hours each
0 MWh undelivered each year
5.00 Sales price in Usc/kWh
10 Economy factor taking care of the social impacts
Benefit:  1,000,000 US$ per year
Less outages at Banja Luka 5 Substation
1996         25 outages
3 hours each
30 MWh undelivered each year
2000          2 outages
0.01 hours each
0 MWh undelivered each year
5.00 Sales price in Usc/kWh
1 0 Economy factor taking care of the social impacts
Benefit:      15,000 US$ per year
Less Transmission losses
Economy               1300000 MWh    Transmission
4%
52000 MWh    Tranmission losses
10%
5200 MWh      Reduction of tranmission losses
50 $/MWh
Benefit:      260000 $ per year Savings
Fuel consumption
10%   reduction in transmission losses
5200  saved energy in MWh
60%   50% from thermal power plants
35%    Efficiency of the power plant
8914  saved fuel energy in MWh
8.64   Economic price of coal ($/MWh)
Benefit:     77019  Saved economic costs (US$)
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
()Missions:
Stage osfPt  Cycle                       No. of Persons a and Speqialty           Perifomance Ratinci
(ceg. 2 Economists. 1 FVMS,etc.)     lmpleenon  Development
Mo0 L L; |40nth/Yea  Countf  0      Speciial      _Prress:                    Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/96                        2   Economist                            S              S
2   Energy Engineer                      S             S
I   Urban Planner                        S             S
I   Civil Engineer                       S             S
I   Water Engineer                       S             S
I   Machinery Expert                     S             S
I   Livestock Expert                     S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/97                         1   Financial Economist                  S              S
I   Energy Engineer                      S             S
I   Water Engineer                       S             S
I   Urban Planner                        S             S
I   Machinery Expert                     S             S
1   Livestock Expert                     S             S
Supervision
12/97                         1   Financial Economist                 S              S
2/98                          1   Water Specialist                     S             S
5/98                          1   Water Specialist                     S             S
6/98                          1   Agriculture Economist                S             S
8/98                          1   Water Engineer                      S              S
10/98                         1   Economist                           S              S
I   Power Specialist                    S              S
I   Civil Engineer                      S              S
I   Water and Sanitation Specialist     S              S
I   Implementation Advisor              S              S
6/99                          1   Power Engineer                      S              S
I   Procurement Specialist              S              S
10/99                         1   Economist                           S              S
I   Power Engineer                      S              S
I   Water and Sanitation Specialist     S              S
I   Housing and Urban Development       S              S
Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist              S              S
Disburement/Operations analyst
6/00                          1   Economist                            S             S
I   Procurement Specialist              S              S
I   Disbursement Analyst                S              S
I   Power Specialist                    S              S
I   Water Specialist                    S              S
- 24 -



ICR
3/01                          1    Economist                            S              S
I    Procurement Specialist               S              S
I    Power Specialist                     S              S
I    Operations Analyst                   S              S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (tOOQ)
Identification/Preparation                 33.7                         131.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                      50.1                         272.2
Supervision                                31.9                         212.9
ICR                                          13                          63.5
Total                                     115.7                         686.2
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
i Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
ZGender                           OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Private sector development            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
M Overall                                            OHS * S O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS * S  O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
|Implementation agency performance                   *H HS 0 S  O u  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  0  U  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Documents
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Reconstruction Assistance Project, Technical Annex, Report No. T-7065-BIH,
October 31, 1997.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Reconstruction Assistance Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, Report No. P-7065-BIH, October 31, 1997.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Reconstruction Assistance Project, Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 30280).
World Bank Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations Aide Memoires: January 1996, March
1996, September 1996, November, December 1996, February 1997, April 1997.
Supervision Documents
World Bank Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: August 1997, October 1997, June 1998 (MTR),
October 1998, May 1999, October 1999, June 2000.
Audit report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1998; PriceWaterhouseCoopers.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1999; PriceWaterhouseCoopers.
ICR/Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
Implementation Completion Report for World Bank, "Reconstruction Assistance Project", plus separate
detailed ICR reports for Agriculture and Water Components, PCU, May, 2001.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrowers' Contribution
Reconstruction Assistance Project ( RAP)
Project Coordination Unit ( PCU )/RS Ministry of Finance
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPORT SUMMARY
RECONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT (3028BOS) AGREEMENT
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
To Government of R_ublika Srpska
-     Cabinet of Prime Minister of RS Government
-     Minisrty for Industry and Technology
-     Ministry of Finance
-       fMinisrty of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
-     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
-     Ministry of Energy and Mining
-     NMinistry of Urbanism and Civil Works
World Bank Resident Mission Sarajevo
Director of Project Coordination Unit
Reconstruction Assistance Project
Labovin Ranko,B.Sc.Economist
Banja Luka, May, 2001
- 29 -



BASIC PROJECT DATA
Project ID:    P048462 - IDA 3028 BOS
Name:          RECONSTRUCTION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Countryl       BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Entity         REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Original                       Amended
Approved                     23-DEC-1997
Signed                       20-JAN-1998
Effective:                   17-APR-1998
Closing                      31-DEC-2000                    31-MAR-2001
Amount in SDR                12,300,000.00
Amount in USD                17,000,000.00
Repayment period             35 years
Grace period                 10 years
Creditor:                    World Bank - International
Development Agency (IDA)
Borrower:                    BiH/ RS GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency:         PROJECT COORDINATION
UNIT- PCU
Other partners               Norway, Japan, The
Netherlands, Italy, SIDA,
Current team            Team during implementation
RS Government
Prime Minister         Dr. Mladen Ivaniae      Gojko Klitkovic, Milorad Dodik
Minister of Finance    Milenko VraNar          Ranko Travar, Drago Simiw, Novak Kondic
Team Leader            Ranko Labovia           Ranko Labovic
WORLD BANK
Vice President         Johannes F. Linn        Johannes F. Linn
Director for BiH:      Christian J. Poortman   Christine Wallich
Task Manager:          Sarah J. Forster        Michael Koch, Severin Kodderitszch
- 30 -



PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Proposed project underlined accomplishing of four primary goals:
* to help economically - disabled and war-affected farmers to restart and strengthen their agriculture
activities;
* to increase the quality and quantity of public housing stock;
* to bring the water supply, sanitation and solid waste services at the level that will fulfill basic human
needs, decrease the health risks and support the restart of economical activities; and
* increase reliability, quantity and quality of electric power supply.
Project Secondary objectives:
* to increase the agriculture and food production, help in decrease of needs for food imported by donors,
and improve the safety of food;
to start maintaining the rehabilitation of sector presenting the plan of cost recovery for infrastructure
investments in housing stock, water supply and electric power supply;
to help in construction of institutional capacities necessary for development and implementation of
program of reconstruction of public housing stock, water supply and sanitation, and electric power
systems;
to support local economy, to promote private construction enterprises, and to create employment and
income through reconstruction works; and
to help the RS authorities to develop medium-term strategy for investments in water supply sector.
Project components:
To accomplish above-mentioned objectives, Project is split in five components:
agriculture;
housing;
water supply;
electric power supply; and
* implementation support- Project Coordination Unit (PCU), including establishing of Procurement
Monitoring and Auditing Unit in RS (PMAU).
FINANCING PLAN SUMMARY
(US$ '000)
Agriculture Housing  Water Supply El. Power Implementation   Total
Stock    & Sanitation  Supply   Support
IDA                    1,000      5,700    5,000      4,000     1,300             17,000
IFAD                   5,000          0        0          0        0               5,000
European Union (Parallel)  0          0   12,731          0        0              12,731
Austria                    0          0      500          0        0                500
Italy                      0          0        0      2,340        0               2,340
Norway                     0          0    4,000     5660,0        0               9,660
United Kingdom             0          0        0          0       180               180
Elektroprenos              0          0        0      1,770        0               1,770
Elektrokrajina             0         00               2,160        0               2,160
Donors to be determined   4,216   9,549        0          0                       13,651
Total costs           10,216     15,249   22,231     15,930     1,480             65,012
- 31 -



Approved Funds
Source of Funds                                 IDA/TF    Date of   Approved amount
No.     Approval         in USD
IDA Credit                                     3028-BOS 23.12.1997        17,000,000
IFAD Credit                                    449-BA    07.12.1997        5,400,000
Italian Grant for Electric Power               TF 24092  08.07.1998        2,241,779
Japanese Grant for rehabilitation of apartnent buildings TF 25687  27.01.1999  4,000,000
Dutch Grant for rehabilitation of apartment buildings   TF 21197  10.03.1999  810,000
Italian Grant for small farm machinery         TF 21828  18.06.1999        900,873
Swedish Grant for PMAU (Economic Institute)    TF 23669  24.06.1998        261,442
Dutch Grant for rehabilitation of apartment buildings   TF 23574  02.10.2000  1,000,000
Elektroprenos                                                              1,770,000
Elektrokrajina                                                             2,160,000
Total                                                   _                 35,482,652
DISBURSED FUNDS AS OF 3.31.2001.                                          in USD ($)
Source                                    Approved   Withdrawn  Outstanding   %
amount      Funds      (non-withdraw
n) funds
IDA Credit                                 17,000,000  16,596,303  0              100
IFAD Credit                                5,400,000   5,518,586   0              102
Italian Grant for Electric Power Distribution  2,241,779   2,241,779   0          100
Japanese Grant for rehabilitation of apartment    4,000,000   4,000,000   0       100
buildings
Dutch Grant for rehabilitation of apartment  810,000   810,000     0              100
buildings
Italian Grant for small agriculture machines  900,873  900,873     0              100
Swedish Grant for PMAU (Economical Institute)  261,442  261,442    0              100
Dutch Grant for rehabilitation of apartment  1,000,000   350,000,00  650,000       35
buildings
Elektroprenos                              1,770,000   1,770,000
Elektrokrajina                             2,160,000   2,160,000
TOTAL RAP                                  35,544,094  34,608,983                  97
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
Objective 1. To help economically-disabled and war affected farmers to restart and
strengthen their agriculture activities
Although the selected area of western part of RS (Anvil area) is not classical agriculture area
because of geographical and climate conditions, we believe that selection of this area was right. During the
war, livestock and farm machinery are completely destroyed in this area. Even those small industrial
capacities that existed before the war in the target area and in wider region and which were a source of
income to rural population, from various reasons were not active or operational with minimum capacities.
Given the above mentioned, increase of livestock and new farm machinery primary provided the food for
population and production, at least modest,surpluses of milk and agriculture products which were supplied
- 32 -



to the local market. Very unorganized market of agriculture products has conditioned small cash income of
rural population. Because of large and emergency needs that this population had in rehabilitation of their
houses and farms, and fulfilling of other basic living needs, there was nothing left what population could
use to repay the credit for received livestock and machinery to the state. As a result, repayment of credits
was very low, even if basic objective was accomplished through start up of agriculture production in the
target area.
Objective 2. Increase the quality and quantity of public housing stock
It is obvious that during the war buildings have suffered enormous direct damage. Because of
unnatural migration of population even larger stock of habitable units was needed. Project has planned and
completely accomplished the increase of habitable stock, which very positively effected overall situation in
the target municipalities. Besides the increased habitable housing stock, accomplishing of safety and quality
of apartment buildings that were occupied during reconstruction should not be underestimated. People
were, because of lack of habitable space, moving in apartment buildings that were in very bad condition.
That endangered the health and life of tenants. By rehabilitation of constructive and common elements of
apartment buildings safety and protection against further deterioration were accomplished. It also enabled
tenants to fix interior of their flats on their own. Since in some cases flats were occupied by people who
hadn't the occupancy right and who didn't want to invest own funds in the temporary assigned flats,
interiors of flats remained unrehabilitated and consequently not occupied till date. Overall, regardless of
mentioned difficulties, this objective was fully accomplished and contributed significantly to normalization
of life of RS residents.
Objective 3. Bringing water supply, sanitation and solid waste disposal services to the level that will
fulfill basic human needs, decreasing health risks and supporting restart of economical
activities
All objectives of the component were important and it was very difficult to accomplish them in early
stage of implementation. At the end of the implementation, we must underline that rehabilitation of water
supply systems was very difficult and provided funds were not enough to cover a number of requirements
received from municipalities. The objectives were fully acomplished in all municipalities where investments
were made. New quantity and quality of drinking water was understood by the local people as savior. There
was no replacement for water, as was the case with other needs, food, energy or accomodation. Best results
were achieved by rehabilitation of water supply systems. Very significant impact, with smaller investment,
was achieved by rehabilitation of several sewage systems. Vehicles and containers for solid waste
transportation provided to RS towns enabled removing of waste from streets and, as a result, decreased risk
of disease spreading, which endangered health of population.
Objective 4. Increase reliability, quantity and quality of electric power supply
Banja Luka, as the biggest industrial town in RS suffered of inadequate electric power supply.
During the war that region was 40 days without power supply. Because of shortage of electric power and
limited supply, institutions, like hospitals, water supply utilities and industrial plants alsosuffered. Investing
in power transmission networks, many facilities of electric power supply system were rehabilitated,
including transformer stations, power transmission networks. More efficient maintenance of the system in
future was ensured. Investing in the billing system improved monitoring and collecton of funds which will
be used for maintaininace and expansion of the system in future.
Secondary Project objectives were accomplished and very significant are following:
- 33 -



* Increased food production in the project area, which covered own needs and decreased dependence on
food imported by donors;
* Initiated introduced of cost recovery on repair works for public housing , water supply and sanitation
and electric power;
* Initiated building of institutional capacities needed for developing and implementing investment
programs in public housing, water supply and sanitation, and electric power; and
* Extremely significant was support to national economy, through participation in repair programs of
state and private enterprises; new employment and income were created. Often this was the only
income for workers in these enterprises.
IMPLEMENTATION PER COMPONENTS - AGRICULTURE
Farm machinery
In 1998, it was procured in total 55 two-axle tractors (2 types- power 16,5 and 31 KW ) and 333 of
tractor implements. Sets of tractor implements were delivered with tractors, which were distributed to the
farmers who already received tractors, 199 farmers in total.
In 2000 additional 69 of tractor implements, 159 self-step motomowers and 336 of cultivators (two
size - 7 and 9 KW) with 657 of implementing tools for cultivators (trailers, ploughs, mowers, hay
collectors) were purchased, which were distributed to 554 farmers in total.
Distributed farm machinery
Type of machiney                                       planed    quantity
-Two-axle tractor 16,5 and 31 KW                        400      55
Tractor implements                                               402
Self-step motomower                                              159
Motocultivator ( 7 and 9 KW)                                     336
Implementing tolls for motocultivators                           657
Total amount spent for farm machinery is 3.346.468 DEM, and total number of individual credit
beneficiaries is 753 in 7 municipalities. Average credit amount per beneficiary is 4.444 DEM, except for
55 beneficiaries who received tractors (12.000 DEM for small tractors to 32.000 DEM for big tractors).
The reason for different number and type of machinery from planned was to meet demand of farmers in the
target area after the first year of implementation. The bigger tractors were not suitable to farmers, because
of higher price and small farm size.
- 34 -



Distribution of farm machinery
Municipality
Type of machinery
Program
Tractor UZT-24             10      5     5                       _      20
Tractors 16 KW    Plough                      10     5      5   =      =     =      =      20
Mower                      10      5     5                              20
Tractor IMT-542            17      9     9                              35
oE                        Plough                      29    17    13    41                        100
Trcor  1  W           Disc Harrow                 20    12    14    34 ___80
Tractors 31 KW    Mower                       43    13      8     6   =      =      =      870
Trailer                     7      4     4                              15
Grain Drill                 4      2     2 1           _                 8
Total beneficiaries in 1998.                    93    28    18    53                        199
Potato Dlanter              4      4                8
Tracto implement Potato harvester        4      6                                    10
Tractor Implements  Hay conveyor               30      4     5                              39
Rotofreezor                 6      6                                    12
Self-step motomower                             35    51    56            5      5     7   159
Motocultivator 7 KW       210    40    37                              287
Trailer                     0    18    19                               37
Plough                     70      3     6                              79
Rotofreezor                70    18    19                              107
Mower                     210    40    37                              287
cli     Motocultivator    Hay collector                0     3      6                               9
with implements    Motocultivator 9 KW         0    33    16                               49
Trailer                     0      8    16                              24
Plough                      0      4     4                               8
Rotofreezor                 0    33    16                               49
Mower                       0    33    16                               49
Hay collector               0      4     4                               8
Total beneficiaries in 2000.                   286   138   113                              554
Total  379   166   138    53        5     5     7   753
- 35 -



IFAD-financed livestock
1.     Cattle (breeding heifers and bulls).
2.     Sheep (ewes and rams).
Distributed Livestock
Type_Quantit
Pregnant heifers                            3,876
Breeding Bulls                              25
Ewes                                        6,880
Rarns                                       338
Cattle
Procurement of heifers was carried through international competitive bidding and local experts
selected animals in the country of origin.
Distribution of breeding heifers per years, breeds and municipalities
Municipality
-u
Breed                                                                     t
Structure    .2                    >               '              .        a
Simmental       756   404   354    32        1    32       0     0      0      0  1.579
1998   Brown Swiss    229    62   148         0      0     0      0      0      0      0    439
Grey Tyrol       21    26       0     0    30       0      0     0      0      0     77
Total '98.     1.006   492   502    32    31    32         0     0      0      0  2.095
Simmental         3      0      0     0      0      0   917   407   205        0  1.532
1999   Brown Swiss      105    57    58       0      0     0      0      0      0      0    220
Grey Tyrol        0      0      0     0      0      0      0      1    10    18    29
Total '98.      108    57    58       0      0      0   917   408   215    18  1.781
Simmental       759   404   354    32        1    32   917   407   205         0  3.111
1998  Brown Swiss      334   119   206       0      0      0      0     0      0      0    659
1999  Grey Tyrol        21    26       0     0    30       0      0      1    10    18    106
Total '98.     1.114   549   560    32    31    32   917   408   215    18  3.876
%    28,7  14,2  14,4   0,8   0,8   0,8  23,7  10,5   5,6   0,5   100
Heifers were distributed in so called "social packages" - 1 heifer to 1 household, and "commercial
packages" of 2-3 heifers per household. It was bigger demand for the social packages, and very litle
interest of farmers for commercial packages of 3 heifers, because there was no market for milk, milk
products sale.
Breeding bulls, ewes and rams
25 breeding bulls for natural insemination in remote villages were purchased in first year of the
implementation.
- 36 -



6.880 ewes (5.000 in 1998 and 1.880 in 1999) and 338 rams (250 in 1998 and 88 in 1999) were locally
procured, Pramenka breed. Rams procured in 1999 were Wurtenberg breed and imported from Austria.
Distribution of sheep distributed per municipalities
Municipality
#  Type of animal     Mrkonjic   Sipovo    Ribnik    Prijedor   Novi    Srpski    Total
Grad                                   Grad    Sanski
__________ ________ Most
1. Breeding ewes         1.790     1.499     1.711       960     440      480       6.880
2. Breeding rams            99       75         76        44      20       24         338
TOTAL head:            1.889    1.574      1.787     1.004    460       504      7.218
_ 26,2                              21,8       24,7      13,9     6,4      7,0      100%
Beneficiaries/packages     173      106        127        24      11       12        453
Value(DEM)    434.050   361.273   409.677   204.804  93.790   103.344   1.606.938
Creating of artificial meadows: Part of funds were ivested in creating artificial meadows for
demonstration of increase of green mass production and quality hay in reference to traditional methods of
production. 25,1 hectars of artificial meadows were created at 29 farms in municipalities Mrkonjie Grad
(13 farners at 9,4 hectars) and Ribnik (16 farners at 15,7 hectars).
Procurement of equipment for veterinary stations: 4 small vehicles and most needed equipment for
Veterinary station in Ribnik, which building was reconstructed by UNOPS funds were purchased.
Procurement of cooling tanks for milk collection: 16 cooling tank for milk collection, total capacity of
9.140 liters were purchased. The tanks were distributed to a dairy in Mrkonjic Grad on credit base, but
they are still not in use.
Traning of farmers: Farmers Book, written by distinguished experts from RS and FRY was printed for
training of farmers. Total of 5.000 credit beneficiary received the broshure.
IMPLEMENTATION PER COMPONENTS - HOUSING
Out of 15 million USD planned for rehabilitation of apartment buildings 11 million USD was ensured. It
was planned to repair 250 buildings with 4,500 flats. Total of 162 buildings with 3570 flats was repaired.
It is expected that app. 180 buildings with app. 4000 flats will be repaired, given this component will be
completed after the closing date of the project, i.e. end August, 2001
Selection of buildings was done by the municipalities according to set criteria . Although not planned, new
facades on some buildings were eventually financed. Such decision appeared to be fully justified and
approved by Bank staff.
Local consultants, financed under the project, prepared technical documentation and supervised works at
the site. International consultants were not financed under the project. Assisted by the expetriate consultant,
Housing Department was set up and quickly mobilized. More apartment buildings in bigger number of
municipalities were repaired, due to saving of funds achieved through wide competition among local
contractors and favorable prices at biddings.
- 37 -



?'gsi:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
MRKONJIC GRAD                  36           3.796.666,74        521              75             7,287.27
DERVENTA                       48           8,561.909,94       1131             220             7,570.21
MODRICA                        14            1.648.236,50       505              6              3,263.83
gIPOVO                         18           1.024.800,02        290             26              3,533.79
BRCKO                      12+Glassing      2,659.982,96        491              -              5,417.48
SRPSKIBROD                      4             679.878,82        115              -              5,911.99
SAMAC                           8             587.712,06        164              4              3,583.61
KOZ.DUBICA                      8             677.083,44        89               12             7,607.68
NOVI GRAD                       9             869.176,25        202              -              4,302.85
SRPSKA KOSTAJNICA               3             173.025,17        46               -              3,761.42
RIBNIK                          2             143.640,17        16               16             8,977.51
Rehabilitation of apartment buildings led, primarly, to improvement of living standards and safety of
tenants, but also to increased number of habitable flats for return of refugees and displaced persons to their
pre-war flats.
With privatization of flats and establishment of the Public Housing Stock Fund, obligations for increased
rent collection and maintenance of buildings and conseguently repayment of credit , is transferred from the
municipalities, which the contract were signed with, to the Fund. The funds collected from privatization of
flats will be invested by the Fund in future construction of new apartment buildings. Almost all operational
construction firms in RS, about 42, were enaged in rehabilitation work, and they accomplished app. 4000
man/months (it is estimated that total number of man/months is much higher).
IMPLEMENTATION PER COMPONENTS - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Component costs andfinancial plan: Summary of costs
(US$)                           Emergency   Equipment   Technical    Institutional Total Costs
works        for waste     Support       Strength-
collection                 ening
Works - water supply               2,877,081             0             0             0     2,877,081
Works - sanitation                   305,526             0             0             0       305,526
Equipment - trucks and                      0    1,006,151             0             0      1,006,151
containers
Procurement of water meters -               0       89,805             0                       89,805
Breko
Engineering, projects bidding               0             0   399,330.63              0       399,330
documentation, supervision
Foreign consultants                         0             0            0             0              0
Office furniture and equipment              0             0            0     30,556.00         30,556
Vehicles                                    0             0            0     50,517.04         50,517?
Increase of operational costs              0             0             0     38,796.00         38,796
- 38 -



Salaries of staff+ audit             0           0          0   108,521.00     108,521
+ supervision
Total component costs:       3,182,608   1,095,956    399,330     228,390    4,996,090
Items financed by donors under international rehabilitation programs were tax exempted in RS.
Major portion of funds was spent for emergency works - repairs of individual systems in certain targeted
municipalities. Quantity of work and disbursed funds were in proportion with needed rehabilitation and
condition in which the systems were when survey undertaken. Table below shows amount of work
undertaken in the selected municipalities. Indicated amounts are inclusive of the installed equipment
amount.
Emergency works
Municipality     Estimated Criteria  Water      Sanitation   Total costs    Additional
no. of    for     Supply      Works       (US$)        participation of
residents  selection  Works   (US$)                    donors
(US$)
North-western RS
Banja Luka         180,000      R,E        0.00        0.00         0.00           EU
Breko               24,000  WD,R,E  146,977.38         0.00    146,977.38          EU,
NORAD,USAI
D
Gradiska             29,000  WD,R,E         0.00  288,716.60   288,716.60     NORAD
Modriea               9,000  WD,R,E         0.00   16,810.06    16,810.06     NORAD
Novi Grad            13,000  WD,R,E  432,664.65         0.00   432,664.65     NORAD
Srpski Petrovac        600   WD,R  116,234.48          0.00    116,234.48
Total:             255,000            695,876.51  305,526.66  1,001,403.17
South-eastem RS
Bijeljina           55,000      R,E  121,199.24        0.00    121,199.24       USAID
Bratunac             17,500     R,E  104,898.97         0.00   104,898.97
Nevesinje             9,000      R,E  1633,233.41       0.00   163,233.41       USAID
Rogatica             12,000   WD,R   93,062.59          0.00    93,062.59
Sokolac              19,400    YD,R  808,532.68        0.00   808,532.68
Srbinje              17,500   WD,R          0.00       0.00         0.00       Project.
stopped
Srebrenica           15,000  WD,R,E   93,728.57        0.00    93,728.57    RS Govern.
Srpsko Gora de        2,000   WD,R  109,166.67         0.00   109,166.67
TMovo                 2,000     WD   213,068.32         0.00   213,068.32
Visegrad             12,000    WD,R  474,314.53         0.00   474,314.53
Total:             161,400           2,181,204.9        0.0  2,181,204.98
__ ____________________                 8
TOTAL RS:          416,400             2,877,081    305,526    3,182,608
* "WD"(war damage), "R"(refugees), and "E"(economical importance).
- 39 -



Waste collection equipment
Part of the funds was used for purchase of containers and trucks for solid waste transportation. Because of
very competitive unit price achieved through the bidding, more equipment than planned was purchase. 12
trucks ( 7+5) and 680 small and 50 big containers were purchased.
S                                  z ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Measure      I.lnit price    ilo>tal priLe
Waste collection equipment                Ullit      Quanitity        (l.SS       !  Ttspi
C'ompactorTrnick (i5 ni)                            PCs           7               71,147.54       498,033.00
Container Truck tS rn'                              PCs           5               53.114.75       265,574.00
_ ~  ~    ____        __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ ___      , _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ __     4.1_      80
Corntaiers (5 mi)                                   PCs           7U                 574.U8        40,188.0(7
C OItttainc.s ( a, I tn3)                           PCas         680                 22 1.80}     1 50.824.33
Spare patsfor  mInunicipalities Itraining          tot tal                                        141,337.32
'I (YI AL:                                           -                L                         1,09,s9M6.6S
Waste transportation trocks - Distribution of waste collection equipment per municipalltles
C'ontainer                  C ni Pic        ni Pic                        ai i UI
TMunicpality  truck of s o    t Price  |   F ru  of      Unit Price  |Total (DEM       Paid in )SD
I              (IM)EM) (_JS S)
I  Fl3anja Lulka    !       O  I   I 10.477.69     3            144.886,69      434.660,07     237.519,15
i     Kn'7.eVO  i    I         I   10.477,69    (      I    144.886.69       110.477,69      60.370.32
3  Dcrventa             1         I I0.477.69j     0            144.886,69      110.477,6)       600.370,32
4  Brcko                I          110.477,69       1           144.886,69       110.477,69      60.370,32
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ..___......_................ ._. . ..               . ................ . .
5  Bijelji:a            0 .        110.477,69y   1              144.886,69       144.886,69      79.173,05
7 6RHratunae            O    ~    110.477,69        I           1$44.886,69     144.886,69       79.173,05
7Ratica                          1 10.477,69. 1 -              144.886,69       144.886,69      79.173,05
8  Pale           |               1 10477,694       1           144.886,69      144.886,69       79.173.05
Srpska lidza             1       I     110.47769   0            144.886,69      I 10.477,69      6(.370,32
10 [ jubinje            I          110.477,691      0            144.886,691     110.477,69      60.370,32
T!(TAL:      r      5                          7                         1  1.S66.595,281    856.062,9
- 40 -



eMeasure  I         ,        l nit price      Total price
Waste collection equipment          ,               Qua  (n$tity  | ('$               U$
unit_____ I(USS)                              (us$) 
Compactor Truck (_ 5  _ ___7                                                   71,147.54       498,0__3_.00
ContaicrTruk (51 n           -               I    es            5               53,114,75      265,574.00
Containers (5 rn')                                pcs           70                574.0X        40,g8s.00
Contaimters( 11 in)                               pCs         (680                221.80 j  1 5824.33
Spare parts for IO municipalities  training      total    I                                    141,337.32
TOTAL:                                                                IJj                     09565
Waste transportation trucks - Distribution of waste collection equipment per municipalities
Container -o     itjPri |  Container      Unit Price  |                 Paid in USD
Municipalty  [ukf5.0   (DM               'Truck of       (DEM)       Total (DEN4)      (LIS )
{ DEM)   ~15.0 m'
I  Banja Luka          0     1   110.477,691      3           144.886,691     434,660,07     237.519.15
I2j      ~                                                                       __ ___........._...................._......_ ...... _  .
2   Knevo              1         110.447,69       0      [      4.886,69        10.477,69     (0.370,32
3 4Derenta                  1    I 10.477,6       0           144.886,69      110.477,69      60.370,32
s _         _     .__.__._. _____ .,..__.__._.. __I___._ 
5  Bijeljina           Q     i   110.477,691      I      i    144.886,69      144.886,69      79.173,05
;._  .              ..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...............    ...... ............................................  ,   , . 
Bratunae      0        1 110.477,69    1              144.886,6191    144.886,69      79130
7  Rigatica            0         110.477,691      1           144.886,69      144.886,69      79.173,05
8  Pale                0         110.477091       t      j    144.886,69      144.886,69      79.173,05
9  Srppska lldlza                110.47769        0           144.886,69      110.477,69      60.370,32
10 ILjIbinje            I         I 1I0.477,6'J|   0  .        144.886,69     110.477,69      60.370,32
[    TOTAL:         [    5                          7                     3   1366595,281        60.62,96
Technical Support
Local consultants who prepared technical documentation and monitor the works were also supported.
Description of Item                                                 Measuring    Total Price
Unit          (US$)
Engineering, Major projects, Bidding documents for emergency works    Total sum    199,972.22
Supervision of works                                                Total sum      44,057.75
Expatriate expert supervision (not engaged)                         Total sum      0.00
Emergency studies for future works                                  Total sum      155,300.66
TOTAL:                                                              _              399,330.63
Institutional strengthening
Project supported Zavod za Vodoprivredu, ODP Zavod za Vodoprivredu RS (ZVRS) to strengthen its
administrative and engineering capacities, management and supervision of project implementation. Office
equipment and material, vehicles, part of operational costs and consultants of ZVRS were financed.
- 41 -



Institutional strengthening - Summary of costs
Description of Item                    Measuring   Quantity  Unit Price     Total Price
Unit                 (US$)           (US$)
Computers, program packages, printers,       total                              30,556.00
office furniture, drawing equipment
(computer + plotter)
Saloon vehicles                               pcs         4       12,629.26     50,517.04
Operational costs for office and vehicles    total                              38,796.00
(communications, rent, etc.)
Salaries for staff/ Supervision / Audit of   total                             108,521.00
project documentation
TOTAL:                                                                         228,390.04
In the meantime, Zavod has been privatized inappropriately, so that provided equipment was taken and
handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management.
IMPLEMENTATION PER COMPONENTS - ELECTRIC POWER
Rehabilitation of transmission network of 110 kV. As planned, rehabilitation of four sub-stations of total
capacity 200 MVA and rehabilitation of six transmission lines of total length of app. 100 kilometers were
financed. After rehabilitation of BL1 substation, number of interruptions in the supply system decreased
from 25 per year to 2-3, of very short duration. After rehabilitation of substation BL5 which supplies
power to main city water supply system, water is supplied regularly, without any interupptions in the
system.
Rehabilitation oftransmission line of 35 kV. One instead of three substations of capacity 8 MVA and
one transmission line of 35 KW in length of 26 kilometers were rehabilitated. After rehabilitation
interupprions, which were frequent in the system before, were fully eliminated. Two other stations,
envisaged under the project were excluded from the rehabilitation program, because one of two was
meanwhile rehabilitated from other funds and the second was excluded due to lower number of consumers,
than expected.
Rehabilitation oftransmission line Banja Luka. Distribution network in municipality Banja Luka, from
20/10 kV of secondary substations and transmission substations, to low-voltage distribution network was
rehabilitated. 7,000 house meters were installed in the urban area of Banja Luka. This resulted in safer
supply and increase of installed power in distribution station for app. 15 MVA, and in supply stations for
app. 20MVA.
Rehabilitation of Telecommunications. Elektrokrajina financed from its own budget procurement of
large part of needed equipment. Purchase of computer equipment for Business Information System of
Elektrokrajina was financed out of the savings. Introduction of new system significantly improved data
processing for 200.000 consumers, and efficiency of data processing is increased for 400% with the same
staff number.
Test equipment and maintenance tools. Field and special vehicles, test equipment and needed tools were
purchased for maintenance of the system in Banja Luka region. Purchased equipment is critical for
maintence of electric power plants.
-42 -



Engineering and management. Designs, bidding docunents, management and supervision of all works
were carnied out and financed by Elektroprenos and Elektrokrajina. Basic office equipment was purchased
for PMG. For very special works, Elektroprivreda had to engage the specialized enterprises.
Prices accomplished at international biddings resulted in significant savings, so that total quantity of
procured equipment was significantly higher compared with planned.
-43 -



WORLD BANK-FINANCED EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
Type of equipment                                         Package number         Value in USD
Protection, managing and measuring equipment                      A-07.a.          110.802,00
A-07.b.          506.410,00
Steel Structure                                                     A-08           695 .297,32
Paints for anti-corrosion protection                                A-09            83.333,25
Power transformer 110/20/10 kV, 20 MVA                            B-03.a.          166.111,17
Distribution transformer                                         B-03.b.           130.880,00
Transformer Oil                                                     B-07            59.400,00
Concrete Poles                                                    B-08.a.          381.180,00
Wooden Poles                                                      B-08.b.          192.100,00
Testing and Maintenance Equipment                                 D-01.a.          160.084,43
D-01.b.           57.072,88
D-01.c.          201.659,51
D-01.d.          178.644,62
Office Equipment for PMG                                          E-02.a.           38.973,23
E-02.b.           14.919,36
E-02.c.             586,44
Special Vehicles                                               F-01 lot.l.         476.867,82
Terrain Vehicles                                               F-01 lot 2          204.423,86
Additional instruments for testing tool PROGRAMMA                D-01.d.            27.840,00
Protection, managing and measuring equipment - Additional 2      A-07.a.           124.110,00
boxes
Protection, managing and measuring equipment - Additional I      A-07.a.            71.000,00
box
Various equipment for ELEKTROPRENOS and                             F-02            36,684.42
ELEKTROKRAJINA (Thermovision Camera)
TOTAL                                                                             3.918.380,31
ITALIAN GRANT-FINANCED EQUIPMENT
Type of equipment                                         Package number               Value
Auxiliary Supplies AC/DC                                            A-06           102.866,44
MV and LV Switchgear Equipment                                    B-04.a.          764.446,27
B-04.b.          249.531,89
Telecommunication equipment for Distribution                      C-01.a            78.658,00
Computer equipment of BIS for Distribution                        C-01.b           515.784,00
Telecommunication equipment for Transmission network               C-02            125.389,00
Various equipment for ELEKTROPRENOS and                        F-02 Lot. 1.         89.152,75
ELEKTROKRAJINA
F02 Lot.2.          48.650,00
F02 Lot.3.           3.877,51
F02 Lot.4.          184.215,21
F02 Lot.5.          37.390,32
Terrain vehicles for ELEKTROPRENOS                             FOI Lot.2.           40.677,87
Total                                                                             2.240.639,26
- 44 -



NORWEGIAN GRANT-FINANCED EQUIPMENT - parallel financing
Packages of equipment                                  Costs
Marks
NORAD                   Description           Mark from Tech.            Total
Annex                 USD
Lot    Package
Al   SF6 Circuit Breakers                   A -02
Disconnectors
A2    a) 1O0kV                              A-03
o            b) 20 kV
-S            Measuring Transformers
A3    a) Current 110 kV                     A - 04
<               l*..   b) Voltage 110 kV                                       1.428.109,53
Metal oxide arresters
a) 110 kV
;      A4    b) 35 kV                              A - 05
c) 20 kV
d) 10 kV
A5   LV circuit breakers                    B - 05
Conductors
._   Bl   a) ACSR 240/40, 150/25, 95/15,    A  10
3I      50/8, 35/6, 25/4 mm2
b) Conductor for earthling 50 mm2
a) Overhead ground wire with
B2 soptical fibbers (OPGW)
b) Accessories for OPGW              A5-111
_______ c) Multiplex system for OPGW                                     I.577.511,27
MV/LV Overhead Cables
0               a) Cables 20 kV
b) Cables I kV
B3     )CbeIkVB - 06
c) Accessories
d) Signaling Cables
e) Earthling Cables
Distribution Transformers
t       C    20a1)/604kVA                           B - 02                     449.540,92
a) 630OkVA
b) 160kVA
Dl   a) Insulators I10 kV                  A - 12
b) Insulators 20 kV
a 2 Q             Connection and string equipment                                  744.121,58
_ e      D2   for transmission lines and             A - 13
substations
- o a        E    Household meters                       B - 09                     703.358,81
TOTAL:                                  4.902.642,11
- 45 -



Disbursed Funds
Source of financing    Available Funds  Total         Distribution at final beneficiaries
USD             USD         Elektroprenos    Elektrokrajina
USD              USD
IDA         Credit      4.000.000,00    3.915.889,38     1.632.379,30     2.283.510,08
Italian Grant
Italian Grant           2.241.779,10    2.241.779,10      583.291,99      1.658.487,11
Norway Grant            4.902.642,10    4,902.642,10     2.032.874,50     2.869.767,61
TOTAL:      1 1.144.421,20    11.060310,58    4.248.545,79     6.811.764,80
Implementation
Project implementation was entrusted to the Project Coordination Unit, which was established by the RS
Government decree. PCU staff was of high caliber with very effective performance. Implementation cost
was financed from both IDA and grant funds. Organizationally, PCU consisted of department teams
responsible for implementation of each component and support department. Number of staff varied,
depending on phase of implementation of each component. PCU staff commitment to the project was very
high. 884, as oppossed to planned 380 man/months, was accomplished, due to project delays and extension
for 3 months. Much higher number of man/months was accomplished with the planned, not over-spent
funds.
The RS Government has been supportive of the PCU as a largely autonomous implementing agency. The
implementing team gained experience in the World Bank procedures and cooperation with the international
organizations and, as qualified and experienced, they often received offers for better jobs from other
international organizations. Assistance of the Crown Agents procurement expert in the first two years of
implementation was extremely useful for fast and smooth implementation.
SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT
Since it is complex, it is not possible to give the evaluation of sustainability for overall project, but per
components.
Agriculture
Sustainability related to investments in agriculture can be assessed as more difficult compared to other
components. This is primarily because poor farmers did not have enough income to repay the credits in
timely manner and in that way create a revolivg fund. It was envisaged that this fund would, in longer
period, finance other activities related to agriculture production or credit lines to farmers who were not
supported by the project. Another reason of the difficult situation was also lack of organized market
for the agriculture products, where farmers could sell their surpluses and earn income.
It is expected that in the coming years of overall society stabilization, privatization of the main
processing capacities and further investments into rural infrastructure will result in increased credit
repayment rate. But, increased number of livestock and machinery in the project area created
preconditions for restart of agriculture activities and better living standards for farmer.
Housing
Sustainability through increased rents, which will enable maintenance of the units, was envisaged in
the housing program. Establishment of the Public Housing Fund and privatization of public flats,
providing the privatization goes as presently planned, will assure maintenance and operations of the
rehabilitated buildings. It will also ensure funds for construction of new flats.
- 46 -



Water Supply and Sanitation
Water supply and sewage system serve the urban areas, therefore their investments simply must be
sustainable in future. It is impossible not to maintain and improve these systems in future, which will
be assured through charging provided services.
Electric Power Supply
Transmission of electric power is very similar to water supply. These systems have to be sustainable
and it is not questionable. Billing of electric power is a first presumption for that. Better electric power
supply and also better efficiency in billing were the accomplished objectives.
Implementation
PCU staff became highly professional and gained experience through cooperation with World Bank
staff. This experience will be very useful for their future performance.Unfortunately, there was no
interest that such implementation unit be transformed in an entity on long-term basis, which would
assist the RS Government in implementation of future projects. This was partly because a role of the
PCU was not clearly defined at the very beginning of the project. World Bank did not agree that PCU
be registered as a legal entity and RS Government failed to recognize PCU as a part of the Ministry of
Finance, RS Government. As a result, the RS Government has lost highly qualified personnel .
Cooperation with World Bank
Cooperation with World Bank staff and individual experts was extremely good, except in few cases.
Project implementation was started under the leadership of the task manager who was the Bank Resident
Mission staff. We consider his assistance as the most critical, since local staff didn't have any experience in
work with the World Bank. The daily management of project supervision was very helpful in the initial
stage of implementation. Contacts with a new task manager, based in HQ was through emails and fax
messages, with couple of visits. The third task manager, under whose leadership RAP implementation was
completed, was the task manager with wide experience from other projects she managed in BiH. Her
involvement in the project was very fast, so that she performed efficiently and coordinated with PCU very
closely. Continuous support and contribution to efficient implementation of the project was ensured
through a Resident Mission staff, who was involved in the project from the very beginning. She facilitated
smooth and speedy transfer of the three task managers in the project and assisted us to resolve the
implementation problems we faced with in daily work. Huge assistance was provided by the procurement
specialist, who was also Resident Mission based. Large contribution was also provided by other experts of
the World bank, specialized for particular components. However, electric power specialis of the Bank and
housing consultant didn't extend full cooperation to PCU and could not understand the problems that
occurred in implementation.
Cooperation with other organizations
Implementation of Small Farm Reconstruction and Development Project, funded by IFAD, was carred
out first through the World Bank and than through UNOPS.
Besides World Bank, IFAD and UNOPS, PCU in its work cooperated with various other international
organizations; OHR, IOM, UJNDP, EU, PHARE, ECHO, etc.
Foreign Experts
Huge contribution to the project implementation was provided by the foreign experts, such as
Procurement, Financial and Livestock Experts.
- 47 -



Experience - Lessons Learned
During the implementation it appeared that some parts of the project were in slightly different situation
than when assessed. But, since project accurately defined project objectives, it was sometimes impossible to
make any adjustments. One of the first conclusions and lessons learned for preparation of future projects is
more flexibility in description, allowing for continous adjustments to project size and scope without
jeopardizing achievement of set objective.
In the agriculture component it was very difficult to meet the requirement to support the largest
possible number of beneficiaries, who were the poorest part of population, and to expect full cost recovery.
Limiting distribution of machinery and number of cattle at minimum, questions both adequacy and
economical jusitification of the investment. Lesson leamed is that a project cannot support both the poorest
and commercial farmers/producers with the same approach.
It was also experienced that procurement method through a wide competition could sometimes have an
opposite effect in emergency projects, e.g. waste of valuable time, especially in situations when a small
number of bidders could offer adequate equipment. This was experienced in the electric power component,
where due to very inflexible and rigid approach of the Bank expert for electric power, overhauling of
several transformers were not carried out.
Adjustments in all components, even when justified, were not possible. This is why it is very important
that in the future more flexibility for adjustments are envisaged in the scope and size of a project.
Overall, our experience with the Bank procurement procedures was very good. Much lower prices
were obtained through wide competion, which has contributed to very cost-effective implementation. It was
also new experience in the local environment.
The project was implemented in a highly satisfactory manner by the PCU, however, it is still an issue
whether a multi-sectoral project like RAP should be implemented in this way, in circumstances under which
neither the World Bank nor the RS Government define precisely the status of such a multi-sectoral
implementing units.
- 48 -



