Page  1
April 14, 1997
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Japanese Grant for Reconstruction Assistance Project
Grant Number TF027097
Dear Sir/Madam:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred thirty-five thousand four hundred and 
three dollars ($235,403) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof, upon receipt by IDA of: 
(i) the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and (ii) a legal opinion, 
satisfactory to IDA, that this Letter Agreement has been duly authorized by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Date:
By /s/ H. Muratovic
April 28, 1997
   /s/ G. Bogic
April 30, 1997
   /s/ N. Grabovac
April 28, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The objective of the technical assistance activities (the Activities) is to 
assist the Recipient to prepare the Reconstruction Assistance Project.  The technical 
assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Trade Policies.  Review of current trade laws and policies of the 
Recipient and Republika Srpska; assessment of trade policies within the framework of 
the Dayton peace agreement; review of current trade patters and volumes of Republika 
Srpska with the Federation and with abroad; recommendations regarding trade policies 
for Republika Srpska, listing concrete policy changes to be carried out by Republika 
Srpska along an agreed time-line; estimation of benefits resulting from trade policy 
change; development of further technical assistance needs in the trade area to 
implement new policies.
(b)
Agriculture Component.  Review of available statistical data on the 
agriculture and food sector in Republika Srpska; analysis of municipal farm damage and 
needs surveys carried out by Republika Srpska municipalities; visits to selected 
war-affected areas in Republika Srpska, discussions with municipalities and selected 
farmers regarding their needs; identification of the type of farm equipment and type 
Page  2
of livestock recommended for import, including cost estimates and draft 
specifications, with associated technical assistance requirements; development of 
recommendations regarding implementation arrangements, including in particular cost 
recovery and beneficiary selection.
(c)
Housing Component.  Review of available statistical data on the housing 
sector in Republika Srpska; analysis of municipal housing damage and needs surveys 
carried out by Republika Srpska municipalities; visits to selected war-affected areas 
in Republika Srpska, discussions with municipalities regarding their reconstruction 
priorities and needs; identification of the type of civil works, their cost and 
geographical location, recommended for financing under the project, with associated 
technical assistance requirements; development of recommendations regarding 
implementation arrangements, including in particular, cost recovery and beneficiary 
selection.
(d)
Energy Component.  Review of available statistical data on the energy 
sector  in Republika Srpska; analysis of damage and needs assessments prepared by 
Elektropriveda Republika Srpska; visits to selected sites for possible investments, 
discussions with local engineers regarding their reconstruction priorities and needs; 
identification of the type of imported equipment and spare parts, their cost and 
geographical location, recommended for financing under the project, with associated 
technical assistance requirements; development of recommendations regarding 
implementation arrangements.
(e)
Water Component.  Analysis of the comprehensive recent water sector study 
prepared by the Republika Srpska authorities; visits to selected war-affected areas in 
Republika Srpska, discussions with Vodoprivreda Republika Srpska and municipalities 
regarding their reconstruction priorities and needs; identification of the type of 
civil works and imported goods, their cost and geographical location, recommended for 
financing under the project with associated technical assistance requirements; 
development of recommendations regarding implementation arrangements, including in 
particular cost recovery and criteria for selection of municipalities.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1997.  
After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient [or the 
member country], or any other entity to which IDA, acting for itself or as trustee or 
administrator of any fund, has made a grant or credit, to make withdrawals under any 
credit, grant or development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
Page  3
