Page  1
July 6, 1998
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
 Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Re:
Italian Grant for cofinancing of Reconstruction Assistance Project 
in Republika Srpska
Grant Number TF024092
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Italy, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred forty-seven thousand five hundred 
forty-one United States dollars and twelve cents (US$647,541.12) (the Grant) to Bosnia 
and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ M. Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
   Economic Relations
Date: July 8, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to: (i) improve reliability, availability and 
quality of electricity supply; and (ii) help build up the institutional capacity 
required for developing and implementing the electric power system repair program, for 
consumers in the Banja Luka area of Republika Srpska.  The activities (the Activities) 
for which the Grant is given are to support financing of equipment and materials for 
repairs in transmission lines, distribution networks and sub-stations including 
household meters for consumers and maintenance equipment.  The Grant amount will 
co-finance the electric power component of the Reconstruction Assistance Project 
(Credit No. 3028 BOS).
Page  2
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall cause Republika Srpska and Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska 
(EPRS) to: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For the purpose of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and that funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall 
enter into a subsidiary grant agreement with Republika Srpska and EPRS on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods required for the 
carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
  (in Dollars)
be Financed
Goods
   647,541.12 100% of foreign  
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of
local expenditures
for other
items procured 
locally
TOTAL
  647,541.12
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of Bosnia and Herzegovina for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures.
Page  3
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment [or import], to IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 2000 or such later 
date as IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), 
except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing 
Date if the corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the 
Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, under such terms and conditions 
as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment 
II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
Page  4
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other 
entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six (6) months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, goods estimated to cost more than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
equivalent, and goods which are agreed with IDA, and goods which IDA agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Items for electricity distribution and testing and maintenance of equipment 
costing $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with IDA’s prior agreement, 
Page  5
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Part B.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible 
item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  6
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
