Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3028 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Reconstruction Assistance Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 20, 1998 
CREDIT NUMBER 3028 BOS 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1998, between BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska (RS) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to RS the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and RS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by  a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter 
of the United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at 
any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall 
be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Benefiting Municipality" means for purposes of Part C of the Project, a 
municipality of RS, other than Brcko, among the municipalities agreed between RS and 
the Association;
(b)
"DEM" means Deutsche Marks; 
(c)
"Eligible Farmer" means any farmer who meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in paragraph B.1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Eligible Municipality" means, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, 
a municipality of RS, other than Brcko, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in paragraph C.1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement among the municipalities 
agreed between RS and the Association;
(e)
"EPRS" means Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska, a legal entity, 
established pursuant to the Decision dated August 19, 1992, no. 01-19-6/92 and 
registered in the Court of Bijeljina on December 2, 1992, no. Fi-352-/92, and includes 
any successor or successors thereto;
(f)
"EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between RS and EPRS pursuant to paragraph E.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to such EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
Page  3
(g)
‘MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and includes any 
successor or successors thereto;
(h)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established in the MOF 
pursuant to paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"PMAU" means the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of the Borrower 
established to monitor and audit procurement activities under projects financed, 
co-financed and administered by the Association in the territories of the Borrower;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and RS of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of a letter dated 
July 21, 1997 (Agreement Letter Q055-0 BOS) between the Borrower and the Association, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(l)
"Republika Srpska" or "RS" means the Republika Srpska, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(m)
"RS PMAU" means the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of Republika 
Srpska to be established pursuant to paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(n)
"RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and RS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the RS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement and "Subsidiary Credit" means the credit provided under 
the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement for Agriculture" means any agreement entered into 
between RS, through the PCU, and an Eligible Farmer pursuant to paragraph B.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules supplemental to such Subsidiary Agreement for 
Agriculture;
(q)
"Subsidiary Agreement for Housing" means any agreement entered into 
between RS, through the PCU, and an Eligible Municipality pursuant to paragraph C.1 
(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to such Subsidiary Agreement 
for Housing;
(r)
"Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation" means any agreement 
entered into between RS, through the PCU, and a Benefiting Municipality pursuant to 
paragraph D.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to such 
Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation; and
(s)
"ZVRS" means "Zavod Za Vodoprivreda Republika Srpska" the Institute for 
Water Works of Republika Srpska.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008, and ending November 1, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  5
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause RS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all of the obligations of RS therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RS to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to RS under a 
subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and RS (the RS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association which shall include the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall relend to RS an amount in Dollars equivalent to 
the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(ii)
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 35 years, including a 
10-year grace period;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge RS a commitment charge at a rate equal 
to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time 
to time;
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge RS a service charge on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 
2.05 of this Agreement;
(v)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be repaid by 
RS in Dollars and shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on 
account of expenditures for the Project; and
(vi)
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the 
repayment terms of the Subsidiary Credit in conformity with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the RS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the RS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Page  6
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project shall be carried out by RS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof.
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof  during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, who shall be employed by March 31, 
1998, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  7
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
RS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that RS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(c)
EPRS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the EPRS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EPRS will be able to perform its obligations under the EPRS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement;
(e)
the Decision dated August 19, 1992, no. 01/19-6/92, establishing EPRS, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of EPRS to perform any of its obligations under 
the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; or
(f)
RS or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action 
for the dissolution or disestablishment of EPRS or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and RS, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
the PCU has been established and its director and four directors of PCU’s 
sectoral departments (agriculture, housing, water and sanitation, and electric power) 
have been appointed with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RS and 
is legally binding upon RS in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and RS in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Page  8
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ K. Zubak 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
100% (net of taxes)
(a) under Part B.1
  1,610,000
    of the Project
Page  9
(b) under Part C.1 
  1,570,000
    of the Project
(c) under Parts B.2
  1,370,000
    and C.5 of the 
    Project
(2)
Force Account
    140,000
100% (net of taxes)
under Parts C.1 
and C.2 of the 
Project
(3)
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
(a) under Part A
          580,000
100% of local
 
of the Project
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
(b) under Part C.2
    620,000
and 85% of local
of the Project
expenditures for 
other items 
(c) under Part D
        2,750,000
procured locally
    of the Project
(d) under Part E
          120,000
    of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services,
100%
training and auditing
(a) under Part A
           70,000
    of the Project
(b) under Part B.3
     60,000
    of the Project
(c) under Parts C.3
    360,000
    and C.4 of the        
           Project
(d) under Part C.5
     30,000
    of the Project
(e) under Part E
          690,000
    of the Project
(5)
Incremental 
operating costs 
100%
(a) under Part C.4
     30,000
    of the Project
(b) under Part E
           10,000
    of the Project
(6)
Unallocated
(a) under Parts A,
    700,000
    B, C and E of
    the Project
(b) under Part D
          140,000
    of the Project
(7)
Refunding of Project      1,450,000
Preparation Advance
TOTAL
 12,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
staff salaries, office supplies, vehicle operation, travel; and 
(d) 
the term "training" means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the travel cost and per diem 
of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Categories (3) (c) and (6) (b) unless evidence satisfactory 
to the Association has been furnished to the Association confirming that the EPRS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $400,000 equivalent; (b) first ten (10) contracts for 
expenditures for works for Part B of the Project procured according to procedures as 
set forth in Section I, Part B.6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (c) first 
five (5) contracts for works for Part C of the Project procured according to 
procedures as set forth in Section I, Part B.6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(d) contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; 
(e) incremental operating costs; and (f) contracts for employment of individual 
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, each under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist economically disadvantaged and 
war-affected farmers restart and strengthen their farming activities; (b) to increase 
the quality and quantity of the public housing stock; (c) to restore water, sanitation 
and solid waste services, mitigate public health risks and support the return of 
economic activity; and (d) to improve reliability, availability and quality of 
electricity supply. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agriculture
1.
Livestock development:
Provision of livestock aimed at rebuilding RS’s herds for milk and meat 
production through the import of about 3,000 heifers and other livestock, including 
provision of domestic transportation, quarantine and veterinary services.
2.
Farm Mechanization:
Provision of farm mechanization equipment, including the reception, assembly, 
initial servicing, handling and domestic transportation of such equipment, to increase 
agricultural production.
3.
Farm Surveys and Technical Support:
Provision of consultants’ services and office equipment for the preparation of a 
detailed farm survey and for the implementation of the Project.
Page  11
Part B:
Housing
1.
Emergency Public Housing Repairs:
Repair works to the common areas (including roofs, external walls, staircases, 
and utility systems) and weather-proofing of publicly-owned apartment buildings, 
including associated engineering services  in Eligible Municipalities.
2.
Emergency Public Housing Repairs in Brcko:
Repair works to the common areas (including roofs, external walls, staircases, 
and utility systems) and weather-proofing of publicly-owned apartment buildings, 
including associated engineering services in Brcko.
3.
Technical Support:
Provision of technical assistance to the Eligible Municipalities to carry out 
on-site quality control inspections.
Part C:
Water and Sanitation
1.
Urgent Works:
Rehabilitation and repair of water sources, supply pipelines, water treatment 
plants, distribution networks, the cleaning and repair of sewers and sewage pumping 
stations, including provision of equipment to restore water supply and sewage services 
in Benefiting Municipalities.
2.
Refuse Collection Equipment:
Provision of refuse trucks and refuse collection containers, including spare 
parts to Benefiting Municipalities. 
3.
Technical Support:
Provision of technical assistance for preparation of detailed designs and tender 
documents, on-site supervision of rehabilitation works, and development of studies to 
prepare future investments in the water sector of Benefiting Municipalities.
4.
Institutional Strengthening:
Provision of technical assistance and office equipment to strengthen ZVRS’s 
administrative and engineering capacity to manage Project implementation.
5.
Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation in Brcko:
Rehabilitation and repair of water sources, supply pipelines, water treatment 
plants, distribution networks, the cleaning and repair of sewers and sewage pumping 
stations, including provision of equipment to restore water supply and sewage 
services, provision of refuse trucks and refuse collection containers, including spare 
parts, and provision of technical assistance for preparation of detailed designs and 
tender documents, on-site supervision of rehabilitation works, and development of 
studies to prepare future investments in the water sector in Brcko.
Part D:
Electric Power
1.
110 kV Transmission Rehabilitation:
Rehabilitation of about four substations with a total capacity of 200 MVA, and 
repairs to about six transmission lines with a total length of about 113 km including 
provision of equipment.
2.
35 kV Distribution Rehabilitation:
Rehabilitation of about three substations with a total capacity of 20 MVA, 
including the provision of equipment.
3.
Banja Luka Distribution Repairs:
Rehabilitation of the distribution network in Banja Luka from the 20/10kV 
secondary substations and step-down transformer substations to LV distribution 
networks, including supply and installation of about 4,000 household meters for 
Page  12
consumers without meters.
4.
Telecommunication Repairs:
Provision of equipment for the repair of communication facilities of the Banja 
Luka - Prijedor - Mrkonjic Grad distribution network.
5.
Testing Equipment and Maintenance Tools:
Provision of testing equipment and maintenance tools for transmission and 
distribution facilities of the Banja Luka service area.
6.
Engineering and Management:
Provision of engineering services and office equipment to prepare detailed 
designs and tender documents and supervise Project implementation.
Part E:
Implementation Support
1.
Project Coordination Unit:
Provision of technical assistance and office equipment for the strengthening of 
the PCU for Project implementation.
2.
Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit:
Provision of technical assistance and office equipment for the establishment and 
strengthening of the RS PMAU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
Page  13
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
