Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3028 BOS
Project Agreement
(Reconstruction Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated January 26, 1998  
CREDIT NUMBER 3028 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska (RS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
RS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RS the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to RS on terms and conditions set forth in said RS Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS RS in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement , the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) RS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and shall cause EPRS to carry out Part D 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, RS shall relend the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Credit allocated to Part D of the Project to EPRS under a 
subsidiary credit agreement (the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement) to be entered into 
between RS and EPRS under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, which shall include those described in the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be 
modified from time to time by the agreement of RS and the Association.
(c)
RS shall exercise its rights under the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of RS and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and RS shall otherwise agree, RS shall carry out Parts 
A, B, C and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) RS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
RS shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and RS a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; (ii) afford the Association a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with RS on said plan; and (iii) thereafter, carry out 
said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
practices, taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
Section 2.04. RS shall duly perform all its obligations under the RS Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RS shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) RS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RS of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
Page  3
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) RS shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of RS responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
RS shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, who shall be 
employed by March 31, 1998, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify RS of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  4
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Trg Srpskih Junaka 4
Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RS or by RS on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or persons as RS shall 
designate in writing, and RS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ Plavsic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, goods procured under Parts A and D 
of the Project estimated to cost more than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, and goods which are agreed 
with the Association, and goods which the Association agrees can only be purchased 
from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  5
2.
International Shopping
Goods procured under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Items for electricity distribution and testing and maintenance of equipment 
under Part D of the Project costing $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
Works under Part C of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 
of the Guidelines, and costing $190,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $8,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) prequalified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B.1 of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for Part A.2 of the Project procured 
under Part B.1 of this Schedule; (ii) each contract procured under Part B.4 of this 
Schedule; (iii) first ten (10) contracts for Part B of the Project procured under Part 
B.6 of this Schedule; (iv) first five (5) contracts for Part C of the Project procured 
under Part B.6 of this Schedule; and (v) each contract estimated to cost more than 
$400,000 equivalent and procured under Part B.6 of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
Page  6
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management:
1.
PCU shall be responsible for the overall implementation and coordination of the 
Project.  RS shall establish and thereafter maintain the PCU until completion of the 
Project with adequate staff, funds, facilities and other resources required for this 
purpose in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Not later than March 31, 1998, RS shall establish the RS PMAU with adequate 
staff, funds, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Association and shall 
establish procedures necessary to ensure that the RS PMAU shall coordinate with PMAU 
for purposes of procurement monitoring and audit of the Project.
B.
Part A of the Project:
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, RS shall through the 
PCU:
(a)
enter into a Subsidiary Agreement for Agriculture with each Eligible 
Farmer, under terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in 
paragraph B.2 of this Schedule;
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements for Agriculture in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and RS and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Agreement for Agriculture or  
provision thereof; and
(c)
select farmers in accordance with the following eligibility criteria 
indicated below:
(i)
Farmers must be experienced livestock producers and/or crop 
farmers and must have suffered the loss of livestock and/or a 
tractor due to the war.
Page  7
(ii)
Farmers must have title or user rights to the land and farm 
buildings within one of the municipalities, other than Brcko, as 
agreed between RS and the Association.
(iii)
For Part A.1 of the Project, farmers must have adequate shelter 
and access to a land area that allows the animals to be supported.
(iv)
For Part A.2 of the Project, farmers must have adequate 
servicing/storage conditions for the equipment and to be eligible 
for the supply of two-axle tractors, farmers must have a minimum 
10 hectares of land.
(v)
For Part A.2 of the Project, farmers must have not more than: (aa) 
DEM 10,000 equivalent of total assets other than the farm land and 
buildings; and (bb) DEM 500 equivalent of household cash income 
per month.
2.
RS shall ensure that the following terms and conditions are incorporated in each 
Subsidiary Agreement for Agriculture:
(a)
The value of the livestock and/or equipment supplied, expressed in DEM, 
shall be based on the import value.
(b)
The maximum value of each Subsidiary Agreement for Agriculture shall not 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 100,000.
(c)
The subsidiary credit for Part A.2 of the Project shall bear an interest 
rate of not less than DEM-LIBOR plus 3% per annum.
(d)
The Eligible Farmer shall provide adequate guarantees or necessary 
collateral for the supply credit provided under the Subsidiary Agreement for 
Agriculture.
(e)
The term of the subsidiary credit shall be up to five (5) years with a 
grace period of one (1) year for subsidiary credits made under Part A.1 of the Project 
and up to eight (8) years with a grace period of two (2) years for subsidiary credits 
made under Part A.2 of the Project.
(f)
The subsidiary credit repayments shall be in cash and shall be channeled 
through selected local credit institutions.
C.
Part B of the Project:
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, RS shall, through the 
PCU:
(a)
enter into a Subsidiary Agreement for Housing with each Eligible 
Municipality, under terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, those set 
forth in paragraph C.2 of this Schedule;
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements for Housing in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Association and RS and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Agreement for Housing or 
provision thereof; and
(c)
select the Eligible Municipalities in accordance with the following 
criteria:
(i)
the residents of each Eligible Municipality must be more than 
10,000 according to the latest available census;
(ii)
more than 20% of total municipal housing stock must be publicly 
owned;
(iii)
a significant proportion (more than 30%) of such housing stock 
must have been damaged, without suffering, however, from any major 
structural damage (less than 40% of the external envelope); and
(iv)
Eligible Municipalities must agree to apply cost recovery for 
repair costs and agree to present a plan for full recovery of 
Page  8
repair costs and operation and maintenance costs to be achieved 
within five (5) years and thereafter.
2.
RS shall incorporate the following terms and conditions into each Subsidiary 
Agreement for Housing:
(a)
Except as RS and the Association shall otherwise agree, the apartment 
buildings eligible for repair works under the Project shall be selected in accordance 
with the following criteria:
(i)
the owners of the apartment buildings must be civilian enterprises 
or the Eligible Municipality and the ownership of the apartment 
building should be without any dispute;
(ii)
in case the apartment buildings are owned by enterprises, such 
enterprises must have given appropriate authority to the Eligible 
Municipality to undertake repairs;
(iii)
the apartment buildings must have been constructed with built 
masonry, concrete frame, and non-modular construction systems;
(iv)
the apartment buildings must have suffered limited damage to their 
external envelopes (less than 40%), without suffering any major 
structural damage;
(v)
the apartment buildings must be located in areas that have been 
cleared, or have been declared free, of mines;
(vi)
the apartment buildings must be located in populated areas, and 
must either benefit from operating infrastructure services or be 
located in areas where, at the time of the selection, 
infrastructure services are planned to be restored; and
(vii)
the apartment buildings must provide, once repaired, the highest 
possible number of useable units.
(b)
The term of the subsidiary credit shall be not more than thirty (30) 
years with a grace period of not more than five (5) years.
(c)
The subsidiary credit shall bear interest at a rate of not less than 
1.75% per annum.
(d)
Repayment shall be in DEM.
(e)
The rents charged to the tenants of the selected buildings shall at a 
minimum recover the costs of the repair works under the Project.
D.
Part C of the Project:
1.
For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project RS shall, through the 
ZVRS:
(a)
enter into a Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation with each 
Benefiting Municipality, under terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, 
those set forth in paragraph D.2 of this Schedule; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements for Water and 
Sanitation in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and RS and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Agreement for Water 
and Sanitation or any provision thereof.
2.
RS shall cause ZVRS to incorporate the following terms and conditions into each 
Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation:
(a)
the amount of the subsidiary credit shall be denominated in local 
currency and equivalent to the cost of the goods and/or works to be supplied at the 
exchange rate in effect on the date of disbursement;
(b)
the subsidiary credit shall not bear any interest or other charges;
(c)
the terms of the subsidiary credit shall be not more than thirty (30) 
Page  9
years with a grace period of not more than seven (7) years; and
(d)
the Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation shall not become 
effective unless an action plan, for recovery of operating costs within three (3) 
years following the date of the Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation and full 
cost recovery (including recovery of capital investments) not later than seven (7) 
years following the date of the Subsidiary Agreement for Water and Sanitation, has 
been submitted to MOF by the Benefiting Municipality.
E.
Part D of the Project:
1.
RS shall cause EPRS, through Elektropronos Banja Luka and Elektrokrajina Banja 
Luka, to carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, power utility and 
environmental practices and to this end shall relend part of the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Credit allocated to Categories (3) (c) and (6) (b) specified in the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to EPRS, 
under a subsidiary credit agreement (the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement) to be 
entered into between RS and EPRS under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall include the following:
(a)
RS shall onlend to EPRS an amount in Dollars or any other convertible 
currency equivalent to the amount of the Subsidiary Credit allocated to Categories (3) 
(c) and (6) (b) specified in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term of the EPRS Subsidiary Credit shall be not more than twenty (20) 
years, including a grace period of not more than five (5) years;
(c)
RS shall charge a commitment fee at a rate equal to the rate of 
commitment charge payable under Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(d)
RS shall charge interest on the principal amount of the EPRS Subsidiary 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of the 
service charge payable by RS under Section 2.05 of the Development Credit Agreement; 
(e)
the principal amount of the EPRS Subsidiary Credit repaid shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars or any other convertible currency (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Credit Account on account of expenditures for Part D of the Project; 
(f)
RS shall have the right to require modification in the repayment terms of 
the EPRS Subsidiary Credit in conformity with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of 
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(g)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
2.
RS shall exercise its rights under the EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement in such 
a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, RS shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EPRS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement or any provision of such agreement.
3.
(a)
RS shall cause EPRS to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b)
RS shall cause EPRS to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph for each fiscal year, audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  10
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, RS shall cause EPRS to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
