                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: T7651-MV




                                 TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                         FORTHE

                               PROPOSEDIDA GRANT

                      INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR3.7 MILLION
                          (USD 5.6 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                          ANDA

                               PROPOSEDIDA CREDIT

                      INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.6 MILLION
                          (USD8.4 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES

                                          FOR A

       POST-TSUNAMIRECOVERY AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT


                                    February 14,2005


Energy andInfrastructureUnit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective =February 16,2005)
                                 Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (Rf)
                                        Rf.12.8   = US$1
                                    US$1.5217     = S D R l
                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1     -  December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACB                    Anti Corruption Board
ADB                    Asian Development Bank
B o M                  Bank o f Maldives
CFAA                   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
D C A                  Development Credit Agreement
EMP                    EnvironnementalManagementPlan
ERL                    Emergency Recovery Loan
ESSAF                  Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
FMR                    financial monitoringreports
FR                     FinancialRegulations
G o M                  Government o f Maldives
IDA                    InternationalDevelopment Association
ILRDP                  Island LivelihoodRevitalizationand Development Program
MCPW                   MinistryofConstructionandPublic Works
MCST                   MinistryofCommunications, Science andTechnology
MDG                    Millennium Development Goals
M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
MHAE                   MinistryofHomeAffairs andEnvironment
MMA                    Maldives Monetary Authority
MoFT                   MinistryofFinance andTreasury
MSSE                   Micro and Small Scale Enterprises
N C B                  National Competitive Bidding
Rf.                    Maldivian Rufiyaa
RLP                    Restoration o f LivelihoodProgram
UN                     UnitedNations
TRRF                   Tsunami Reliefand ReconstructionFund
                                Vice President:     Praful Patel
                    Country Managermirector:        Alastair J. Mckechnie
                       Sector Managermirctor        Sonia HammadVincent Gouame
                            Task Team Leader:       Oaiser M.Khan

This emergencyproject was prepared inparallel with a disaster impact assessment which was
carried out jointly with the ADB and the UnitedNations. Bothteams were ledby Qaiser Khan.
Other World Bank contributors to the assessment and the ERLare: Carolyn Cain (Tourism
Specialist/IFC), Christian Eigen-Zucchi (Economist), Deepal Fernando (Procurement Specialist),
Maryse Gautier (Senior Urban Specialist), Rasmus Heltberg (Economist), Manoj Jain (Senior
Financial Management Specialist), Toshiah Keicho (Senior Urban Specialist), Laura Kiang
(Operations Officer), Mudassir Khan (Senior Financial Sector Specialist), Afshan Khawaja
(Senior Social Scientist), Kalanidhi Subbarao (Safety nets/Livelihoods) and Ghada Younness
(Senior Counsel).



                                              - 2 -

                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                         TECHNICAL ANNEX FORTHEPROPOSED
              POST-TSUNAMIRECOVERYAND RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                               FORTHE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES


                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

     A BACKGROUND
      .                ......................................................................................................................       4

     B IDA RESPONSESTRATEGY
      .                                        ...............................................................................................      5

     C PROJECTOBJECTIVES
      .                                 ......................................................................................................      7

     D PROJECTdESCRIPTION
      .                                   ....................................................................................................      7

     E INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT AND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION
      .                                                                                                                                  .............9
     F FINANCIALMANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
      .                                                                                        .................................................   11

     G PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
      .                                                         ..............................................................................     17

     H SAFEGUARDS
      .               ......................................................................................................................       20


     Appendices:

          Appendix 1:TsunamiDamagesandReconstructionCosts andFinancing
          Appendix 2: SafeguardPolicyIssues                       ...........................................................         ............22
                                                                                                                                                  24
           Appendix 3: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                           ..............................................................         31
           Appendix 4: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                                                             32
           Appendix 5: Country at a Glance                  ..............................................................
                                                                                ................................................
                                                                                                                                                  33

     MAP IBRD33442




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization                 .        .


A. BACKGROUND

1.        Country Background. The Maldives i s a chain o f Indian Ocean islands spread over a
distance o f 900 kilometers, and located between northern latitude 4 to slightly south o f the
equator. The land area, which covers about 26 geographic atolls, i s grouped into 20
administrative atolls. The population o f the Maldives i s about 300,000. The country faces two
main geographic challenges: (a) the absence o f a significant land mass, which has resulted in a
highly dispersed population, and (b) the low altitude o f the existing islands. The country has
1,190 islands, o f which 198 are inhabited. Of these islands, only 33 have a land area greater than
one square kilometer. One third o f the inhabited islands have a population o f less than 500 and 70
percent o f the inhabited islands have a population o f less than 1,000. This extremely low
population density makes the Maldives unique, even among small island archipelagic states. It
also raises the cost o f delivering social services and of public administration, as there i s hardly
any scope to generate economies o f scale. The altitude of most o f the islands in the Maldives i s
very low, just above sea level. As a result, rising sea levels cause many islands to disappear and
new ones to appear. This has rendered some inhabited islands ecologically vulnerable, while
other islands have become too densely populated to sustain their communities. The greater Mal6
area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter o f the population, is o f specific concern,
with increasing strain on social and public services caused by continuing in-migration from other
parts o f the archipelago.

2.        The tsunami and its effect. The tsunami traveled at over 700 kilometers per hour and
reached Maldives at 9:20 AM on 26 December 2004. Tidal waves ranging from 4 to 14 feet were
reported in all parts o f the country. More than 1300 people suffered injuries; 82 people are
confirmed dead and another 25 are missing and feared dead. Unlike other countries affected by
the tsunami, Maldives experienced a disaster o f national proportion. Thirty nine islands were
significantly damaged and nearly a third o f the Maldives' 300,000 people were severely affected.
Fourteen islands were completely destroyed and had to be evacuated. Nearly 12,000 people have
been displaced from their islands, (initially 28,000 were displaced) and another 8,500 people are
temporarily relocated to other places on their own island; thus 7 percent o f the population o f
Maldives were displaced. The force o f the waves caused widespread devastation o f shelter and
infrastructure inthe atolls. Flooding caused by the tsunami wiped out electricity on many islands,
destroying also their communication links.Water supply was disrupted in about 15 percent o f the
islands and 25 percent had major damage to the essential infrastructure such as jetties and harbors
that links these islands with Mal& Electricity supply in many affected islands has yet to be
restored. The impact on an economy largely based on tourism, fisheries, and agriculture will be
substantive. Livelihoods o f thousands have been undermined and will continue to suffer.

3.        The socialfabric o f the tsunami hit islands inthe Maldives has been seriously impacted
by extensive physical damage, loss o f life and livelihoods, and displacement o f people. Most
affected people lost savings kept in cash in the house. The affected communities have a
heightened vulnerability to poverty. The impact o f the losses has been exacerbated by the shock
and fear caused by the tsunami. Although traumatized, island communities have demonstrated a
strong sense o f independence, resilience and cohesion in mobilizing themselves into groups to
remove rubble, initiate small scale reconstruction activities on mosques and houses, distribute
relief supplies, and sheltering those made homeless. In a country o f many small islands,
community organizations have traditionally played an important role in providing public and
collective services and inmany other areas o f local life. The capacity o f communities to mobilize
themselves represents one o f the most important assets for the reconstruction work ahead.




                                              - 4 -

Community mobilization and self-help needs to form a cornerstone and a key organizing
principle for demand-driven local recoveryprograms.

4.       Country Vulnerability. The main risk factor for the country i s the extremely low
elevationwith the average elevationbeing 1.5 meters above sea level. This increases the risks o f a
tsunami and vulnerability to the potential effects o f global warming. O f the 198 inhabited islands,
88 face perennial beach erosion. Wide dispersal o f population across very small islands and their
remoteness and inaccessibility creates diseconomies o f scale hampering both development and
relief efforts. Maldives has been spared from natural disasters and i s generally not affected by
cyclones which affect other areas o f the Indian Ocean. Consequently, Maldives has focused on
what it saw as its main risk: global warming and consequent rising sea-levels. Nevertheless, the
natural risks are compounded by the extremely high economic dependence on tourism and
imports.

5.       Ongoing effort. The Government responded within hours by creating a National
Emergency Center which groups all government departments including decision makers under
one roof and which also coordinates the relief efforts by donors and non-government
organizations (NGO). The Government has been characterized by transparency and a strong
desire to avoid overlap and waste o fresources.

6.       Risks. The Maldives has a good track record o f governance and implementation o f
programs. Nevertheless, given the emergency nature o f this operation, certain risks do exist: (a)
the Government may be overloaded by different projects requiring different procedures from
various donors. (b) income and livelihood support could be imperfectly targeted. (c) Government
assistance, whether in cash or kind, could create a dependency syndrome and undermine private
financial markets. (d) the urgency o f providing support under the different components could
undermine community consultation processes.

7.       Mitigation Measures. (a) The creation o f a one-stop Tsunami Relief and Reconstruction
Fund (TRRF) will help to mitigate the first risk. (b) inter-Ministerial task forces with army and
auditor involvement, transparent auditing o f the TRRF, active participation o f island-level
Women's Development Committees, and Island Development Committees will act as strong
deterrent to abuse o f government support; (c) upfront announcement o f transparent criteria for
eligibility o f government support under the livelihoods component will prevent expectations o f
and reliance on public support in the future, contributing to mitigating the risk o f dependency
syndrome; (d) the strong tradition in Maldives o f grass root level community action in consort
with local government will, it i s hoped, continue, even in times o f distress imposed by the
tsunami.

B. IDA RESPONSESTRATEGY

8.       Damage and needs assessment. Immediately after the tsunami, the World Bank sent a
teamjointly with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the UNsystem to assess the damages.
Total damages are estimated to be about US$470 million, close to 62 percent o f GDP. About
$298 million o f this are direct damages to physical assets, representing about 8 percent o f the
replacement cost o f the national capital stock. The rest are indirect damages (such as lost tourism
income). The largest source o f direct damages i s the housing sector and the largest source o f




                                              - 5 -

indirect damage i s the tourism sector, stemmingfrom a sharp drop intourist arrivals'. The cost o f
restoring the economy to pre-tsunami levels i s estimated to be US$406 million. Government
revenues, which depend heavily on tourism, are expected to drop by US$60 million, equivalent to
about 25 percent o f total revenues. The decline in revenues will impair the capacity o f the
government to finance the reconstruction program. Table 1 in Appendix 1provides an overview
o f the damage and reconstruction costs estimates arrived at by the joint World Bank-ADB-UN
mission. Table 2 o f Appendix 1 matches the sector specific estimated recovery needs with the
foreign financing that has been identified to date.

9.       Governments long term strategy and its linkage to the tsunami response. The principal
impact o f the tsunami on the Government's development strategy will be to accelerate the process
of population concentration. The tsunami lent new urgency to the policy o f population
concentration, which will go a long way to reduce diseconomies o f scale in service provision and
will provide protectionagainst sea-level rise. Another impact o f the tsunami has beena rethinking
o f environmental measures neededto defend focus islands-a         new plan for creation of safe focus
islands has been proposed. The proposed safe island design would involve elevated zones, high
buildings, special drainage zones, and sloping revetments for environmental protection. The
Government's population consolidationpolicy rules out forced resettlement. The Government has
re-stated its policy against forced resettlement ina recent communication to donors.

10.      Regional development strategies. The government has developed a two pronged strategy
to distribute the benefits o f economic growth to all parts o f the country. The first element o f the
strategy i s to develop two regional centers, one in Addu Atoll in the far south and the second in
Haa Dhalu Atoll in the far north. These centers are designed to have airports, good ports and
other social and infrastructure facilities. The regional centers are to be complemented by safe
islands on different atolls to act as atoll service hubs and growth centers. The government i s also
seelung to distribute the benefits o f tourism to all atolls by allowing new resorts to be opened in
the atolls which currently lack resorts. The opening o f the new international airport and
internationalport inAddu Atoll will bringtourism and other economic opportunities within reach
o f the more isolated southern atolls. The government expects these developments to reduce
regional differentials and promote growth and employment opportunities outside o f Male.

11.      The provision of social services in the Maldives poses special challenges given the
dispersion o f its population. The country's public expenditure, in line with other small island
economies with dispersed populations, i s high at 40 percent o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Consequently, public expenditure management poses a major challenge to the Government. The
Government's previous strategy to widen access to services across the archipelago consisted o f
creating facilities and providing services on all islands, including those with small populations. In
the education and health sectors, this approach has ledto the establishment o f a primary school, a
primary health post, and other social infrastructure on each inhabited island. Establishing and
maintaining secondary schools and more advanced health facilities on each island would be
extremely expensive. Inaddition, public expenditure o f 40 percent o f national income currently
supports a basic level o f local government services to atolls, with advanced services concentrated
only inthe central Mal6 region. Widening access to highquality local government services to the
atolls i s also likely to be extremely costly. Hence, the government needs to maximize cost
effectiveness in developing strategies to improve access and develop the quality o f education,
health care and local government services inthe outer atolls.


' The indirect damage estimates need to be treated with caution particularly when it comes to tourism and
livelihood damages.


                                                - 6 -

12.      Communications. The development o f a nationalbroad-bandnetwork to provide access to
internet based public services within atolls i s also an important element o f the government's
strategy to improve the coverage and quality o f local government. Currently, the cost o f intra-
atoll and inter-atoll communication and information transmission i s severely constrained by the
high cost o f telecommunications and the absence o f adequate transmission capacity. The
Government strategy o f developing a broad-band network would enable focus island hubs to
supply services to the primary islands within their atolls more cheaply and effectively. In
addition, a broad-band network would facilitate inter-atoll communications by substantially
reducing costs and increasing the volume o f information that can be transmitted.

13.      Linkage to the WorldBank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). A major element inthe
last CAS for the Maldives has been to support the Government's population consolidation policy
as a protection against rising sea-levels and to improve public services. The next CAS will most
likely continue this support.

14.      Rationalefor IDAfinancial support. The tsunami which hit Maldives on 26 December,
2004 was a nation-wide disaster which caused severe damage to the physical infrastructure o f
many islands. The tsunami has set back the highlevels o f social progress and prosperity achieved
in recent years. The physical damage has led to severe human suffering inasmuch as large
segments o f the population have lost their dwellings, lifetime assets, savings, and sources o f
livelihood. IDA support would meet an urgent need for reconstruction finance and, by providing
resources in a timely and transparent manner through the Government's TRRF, IDA would help
set an example in terms o f harmonizing donor procedures and avoid over-burdening the limited
managerial resources o f the Government.

C. PROJECTOBJECTIVES

15.      The project objectives are to support the efforts o f the Government o f the Maldives to
carry out a program o f rehabilitation and reconstruction related to the damages caused by the
tsunami o f 26 December 2004.

D. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

16.      This operation will be implemented over a period o f three years, with much o f the work
expected to be completed during the first year. IDA support will be routed through the Tsunami
Relief and Reconstruction Fund (TRRF) established under the aegis o f the Ministry o f Finance
and Treasury with the purpose to assure transparency in the use o f funds. The operation will have
the following components:

Component 1:Restorationof livelihoodsconsists o f (a) safety net cash transfers to the affected
population for their subsistence needs, and (b) a program to restore lost or damaged assets o f
affected enterprises.

         Sub-Component a: Safety net cash grants to households affected               by the tsunami
         (US$5.6 million fi-om the IDA grant). The Govemment has begun providing one-time
         cash grants to families seriously affected by the tsunami2. Under this program, the




  This program is ongoing and an amount of Rf. 30 million has been disbursed to the affected population
with an estimate o f additional Rf. 20 million to be disbursed shortly. GoM has used budgetary funds for


                                                 - 7 -

        Govemment has started distributing Rf.1,500 (US$117) per capita to families whose
        houses were completely destroyed; Rf.1,000 per capita to families whose houses were
        partially damaged; and Rf.500 per capita to families whose houses are intact but
        household items swept away. This amount i s intended to help affected families cover
        immediate expenses on food and household essentials. The Govemment i s also preparing
        a follow-up safety net program targeting the poorest and most vulnerable among the
        affected population; this new programwould provide a small monthly cashpayment for a
        limited period o f 10 months to poor and heavily affected families. The purpose o f
        limiting the period and narrowly defining the target groups is to avoid developing a
        dependency syndrome.

        Sub-Component b: Restoration of Livelihoods Program (RLP) (US$3 .O million from
        the IDA credit). The government has decided on a policy o f urgent support for livelihood
        restoration, the Restoration o f Livelihoods Program. This program would provide sub-
        grants for restoration o f assets (e.g. fishing vessels, fishing gear, fish processing
        equipment, agricultural tools, and other). The RLP i s targeted to micro and small scale
        enterprises in the affected islands who lost or suffered damages to their income
        generating assets. The support under this program will help these enterprises restart their
        businesses, and thereby kick start economic recovery and employment at the local level.
        The eligibility criteria for assistance under this program cover enterprises whose assets
        were damaged or lost from the tsunami, and which were not insured.

Component 2: Increase school capacity on islands receivingthe populationdisplaced by the
tsunami (US$5.0 million from the IDA Credit). The tsunami has made at least seven islands
uninhabitable. The population displaced from these seven islands needs to be resettled
immediately. The receiving islands will need additional schools and facilities to accommodate the
increasing student population. Temporary classrooms erected to accommodate the students will
need to be converted into permanent classrooms. Moreover, certain islands including Lamu Gan
are expected to receive a substantial population increase and at least one new school will be
needed here. The proposed assistance will finance additional permanent classrooms and the new
school. The component will be implementedby the line Ministry.

Component 3: ImplementationSupport to the Post-tsunamiReconstructionProgram.($0.4
million). The post-tsunami reconstruction program currently under planning will add
considerably to the normal workload o f all levels o f government. Since this increase inwork load
i s temporary, it does not justify additional permanent staff. This component will temporarily
increase the capacity o f implementing Ministries to manage the additional workload by financing
project management specialists.

17.     Justzjkation of the project and emergenq procedure. The project will help to start the
process o f recovery after the tsunami. Urgent support i s needed because o f the scale o f damages,
and because the Government's ability to respond has been impaired by the adverse impact on its
revenues from import and tourism related taxes. Tables 1 and 2 o f Appendix 1provide sector-by-
sector details o f the damages, reconstruction needs, and foreign financing already identified.
Large gaps exist in all sectors; IDA support would help close those gaps, and by routing support
through the TRRF in a transparent and streamlined manner, it would also have a catalytic impact
on other donor support. The sectors to be supported were chosen, in part, because o f previous



these payments, which will be retroactively financed by IDA. Once complete, this program will have
reached approximately 63,000 beneficiaries.


                                              - 8 -

World Bank experience through investment lending or analytical work inthe sectors; the urgency
o f support needs and the soundness o f the government's reconstruction strategy; and the absence
o f commitments from other donors to the given sector.

18.      Lessons from Previous Emergency Operations. The World Bank experience in
emergency operation shows that the first element o f response should focus on restoring
livelihoods so that people can earn incomes and help themselves. This i s covered by the first
component o f the project. Another element to consider i s to avoid overburdeningthe Government
with multiple, additional donor imposedprocedures and processes. This is addressed by worhng
through the integrated structure o f the TRRF and a consolidated project Operations Manual used
by all participating donors. Finally, it is very important to design the program in a flexible
manner, as new or unforeseen issues may arise which will need response. This need is addressed
by keeping the project objectives quite broad, which would allow the borrower flexibility to
address unanticipatedneeds.

E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

19.      Tsunami Relief and Reconstruction Fund (TRRF). The Government of Maldives (GoM)
has set up a TRRF under the aegis of the Ministry o f Finance and Treasury (MoFT) by way o f
presidential decree (equivalent to an Act in Maldives) dated January 9, 2005. The TRRF will
receive resources from local and intemational sources, and channel these resources to
expenditures for relief, reconstruction, and management activities. Inaddition, it will also account
for and report on in-kindgrants and funds passed on directly by donors. The TRRF will operate
as a separate fund under the budget o f G o M and will enable G o M to transparently delineate and
account for tsunami related assistance and ensure effective usage o f funds.

20.      Financing Plan. A joint team from World Bank, ADB, and UNhave recently completed
a needs and damage assessment, estimating the total public financing needs for reconstruction at
about $304 million. The TRRF i s in the process o f tying up resources and matching them with
projected sector usage. A financing plan i s under preparation by MoFT which will identify the
sectors and activities in which reconstruction financing i s needed and the probable funding
sources a~ailable.~ the donor commitments and modalities are yet to be firmed up, the
                      As
financing   plan will need to be dynamic and subject to periodic revisions (bi-monthly).
Arrangements would be put in place at the government accounting bureau at M o F T to track the
actual expenditures to collate and report against the plan.

21.      Staffing and functions of the TRRF, The TRRF will be operated by M o F T using their
regular staff, with oversight provided by the TRRF monitoring Board appointedby the President.
This board comprises seven members: three senior civil servants (including the Auditor General
o f Maldives as Chairman), three representatives from the private sector, and one representative
from the international donor agencies. The Board's functionalities include ensuring effective
implementation o f the relief and reconstruction work; monitoring and supervising the approved
activities; reviewing the operational reports including expenditures; and maintaining transparency
inthe operations bycollating anddisseminating information onthe utilizationo f funds.




   The donor funding is in the process o f being negotiated. To avoid delays in implementing its
reconstruction program, GoM i s proposing to match its prioritized program for Tsunami Relief and
Reconstruction in various sectors with the donors available to commit funds, through a dynamic business
plan. This will mitigate any fiduciary risk o f donor overlap and will enable GoM to continue with the
momentum o frelief andreconstruction work, without waiting for all-donor consensus.


                                                - 9 -

22.      Operations Manual of the TRRF. The management, organizational structure and
implementation arrangements including procurement and financial management will be detailed
inthe operations manual of the Fund, currently under finalization. The operations manual of the
TRRF lays out the decision making structure for the TRRF. It also details all implementation
issues includingprocurement and financial management procedures.

23.      Implementing component l(a), targeted cash assistance to people whose houses were
damaged by the tsunami. The G o M i s in process o f distributing cash grants to the affected
population to meet basic subsistence and livelihood support needs. Multi-sectoral task teams
(including the island committees and local groups) have been formed for distributing the cash
entitlement determined as per the scheme. These task teams include a representative from the
office o f Auditor General (who performs a pre-audit function on the team), one from the National
Security Service4 (defense service of GoM) and 4-5 senior functionaries from other line
ministries, who visit the affected islands, survey the affected properties and individuals, scrutinize
and verify the beneficiaries with the data made available from the repository, register them, and
make the payments. Receipts are obtained through signatures and finger imprints from the
beneficiaries and the list i s prepared at the end o f every day, where it i s signed by each of the task
team members to establish intemal control and accountability.

24.      Beneficiaries are being identified and verified ina process that involves: (a) the atoll and
island administration, (b) community groups which are strong inthese small island communities,
(c) visual damage inspection by the task teams, and (d) the Ministry o f Gender, Family
Development and Social Security. The latter has the experience with targeting cash assistance
programs in the past. The task teams after returning from the islands hand over the duly signed
and verified lists to the National Security Service (NSS) along with the balance cash. The data
(from the lists given by the task teams) are currently being compiled at the disaster management
centre with the help o f the Auditor General's office and would ultimately be updated on a web
site for the general public (social audit). This design could be improved further by ensuring better
dissemination by posting the lists o f payment immediately in the offices o f the local island
committees.

25.      Follow-up cash assistance (also component 1(a)). Additional assistance will be required
to the poorest and most vulnerable o f the affected population. The disbursement and
implementation arrangements o f this safety net program will be similar to the assistance offered
to those whose houses sustained damages, with the following exceptions: (a) the target group will
be much smaller (approximately 4,000 individuals); (b) the targeting criteria will emphasize the
poor and vulnerable such as the elderly, the disabled, and single parents with many children
among the affected population; (c) the amounts disbursed will depend to some extent on family
size, and will not depend on the extent o f damage sustained to the house, and (d) this assistance
will bepaid out on a monthly basis for a period o fupto 10months.

26.      Implementation of Component 1(b): Restoration of Livelihoods Program (RLP). The
Livelihoods Restoration Programwould be implemented by the Ministryo f Finance and Treasury
over a period o f 10 months from the effectiveness date o f the ERL. The eligibility criteria for
grant support under RLP would be micro and small scale enterprises (MSEs) affected by the
tsunami that have lost or suffered damages to income generating or business assets which were



  National Security Service has a very strong reputationo f assisting insuch emergencies. It is also handling
the warehousing, maintaining inventory and transportation for the physical aid that has been received
during the Tsunami emergency.


                                                - 10-

not insured. MoFT will receive IDA funds for the I2LP and would be responsible for providing
the cash grants directly to the beneficiaries. The government would verify MSEs receiving the
sub-grants against the eligibility criteria and would maintain a record o f the name and address o f
the MSEs and the type o f business, estimated value o f the damaged business asset, and the
amount o f grant provided to them. At the end o f the program, MoFT would also carry out an
impact assessment o f the grants provided and would have the accounts o f the RLP audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA.

27.     Implementation of Component 2: Increase school capacity on islands receiving the
population displaced by the tsunami. This component will be implemented by the Ministry of
Education with support from the existing Program Monitoring and Coordination (PMC) section
which has extensive experience with implementing IDA projects. The needs for reconstruction
assistance have already been identified in detail by school and by island.

28.     Implementation of       Component 3:Implementation         Support to the Post-tsunami
Reconstruction Program . The Ministryo f Finance and Treasury with input from the concemed
line Ministry will decide on whether there i s a need for temporary additional support to the line
Ministryfor implementingthe Post-Tsunami programand whether the work could easily be done
by existing permanent staff. If the need is determined to exist, the need would be fulfilled by
national or international experts worlung for the period o f the Post-Tsunami reconstruction.


F. FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENT

Summary of Financial ManagementAssessment

29.     The Government o f Maldives (GoM) i s in the process o f finalizing the implementation
arrangements for the Tsunami Relief And Reconstruction Program with various donors, which
will ensure transparency and efficient fiduciary arrangements. The IDA financing, along with
other donor finance, will be routed through the TRRF operated by the Ministry o f Finance and
Treasury (MoFT), which, subject to meeting the conditions for disbursement, i s inthe process o f
establishing a financial management (FM) system that will be adequate to account and report for
project resources and expenditures.

30.     Ithas been identified that IDA credit and grant will support safety net cashtransfers, sub-
grants to small businesses for restoration o f assets and livelihoods, education sector
reconstruction, and support for program management. Total IDA assistance up to an amount o f
US$14million i s envisaged. All the payments from TRRF would be made on the basis o f duly
certified and verified invoices and other supporting documents, per detailed operational and
business procedures as described inthe Operations Manual. These payments would be made on a
centralized basis by the government accounting bureau at MoFT. The proposed arrangements o f
routing all fund flows through TRRF under MoFT will: i)significantly reduce the risk o f delays
inthe availability of funds at the operational level, ii)increase transparency, speed, accuracy, and
reporting for operations, iii)enable TRRF to disburse funds in a timely manner for smooth
implementation, and iv) replenishthe accounts quickly to maintain program momentum.

31.     All activities, projects and other expenditures would be approved and authorized by a
high powered Ministerial council. Urgent relief activities will be approved by the Chief
Coordinator (currently the defense minister, as the nominee o f the president) o f the disaster task
force, which groups all senior bureaucrats including decision makers under one roof and
coordinates the relief efforts by donors and NGOs. Detailed appraisal processing and monitoring


                                              - 11-

and evaluation criteria are specified in the Operations Manual. The arrangements will be built
around existing country systems to the extent possible, with upgrades designed to improve
effectiveness and accountability. At the outset, the donors are expected to harmonize and
coordinate: overall TRRF priorities, project evaluation criteria, sector-specific operations,
payment mechanisms, initial funding amounts and replenishment schedules, and reporting
requirements.

Currentflow of funds and other arrangements

32.      A Bank Account for the TRRF, managed by MoFT, has been set up with the Maldives
Monetary Authority (MMA; the Central Bank o f Maldives), to receive funds from various
domestic sources for the tsunami disaster.       Checks and cash received locally are deposited
directly into this Bank Account. Up to now, the G o M has been meeting relief and reconstruction
expenses including the operational expenditures from an initial amount made available from the
budget (approximately Rf.82 million or US$6.4 million have been spent till February 5, 2005).
Another two Bank accounts have been opened with the Bank o f Maldives (BoM) to receive
international contributions, one account for Rufiyaa contributions and another account for foreign
exchange. Total cash receipts and commitments o f US$25.45 million and o f Rf.16.892 million
had been received by the TRRF up untilFebruary 6,2005, amounting to a total o f US$27 million.
It is proposed to transfer all the amounts from B o M to the bank account at MMA, in line with
other government departments and agencies for the purposes o f spending on the p r ~ g r a m . ~
Separate records are being maintained for aid received in-hnd. The inventory list o f supplies
received and supplies made i s being periodically updated. Adequate physical and administrative
controls are being maintained over these by the National Security Service (NSS)6, by way o f
maintaining intake registers, periodic inventory counts, requisition slips, release slips, segregation
of duties etc. The initial accounts for the TRRF are being inspected by the Auditor General who i s
also helping in setting up the FM arrangements for the fund. MoFT is in the process o f revising
its budget for the current year (calendar year 2005) to include the TRRF related expenditures.

Strengths and weaknesses of thefinancial management system

     (i)     A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) camed out in late 2000
             concluded that although public financial management and accountability inMaldives
             i s at a nascent stage, there i s an understanding and commitment within the
             Government to modernize in this area. Important steps have already begun to reform
             public financial management arrangements.
     (ii)    The government o f Maldives has prior experience in handling IDA-financedprojects
             with satisfactory FMarrangements.
     (iii)   The TRRF i s in the process o f establishing a sound financial management system
             incorporating financial arrangements, control processes, and funds flow arrangements
             based upon the best government practices currently inuse and with the possibility o f
             tailoring them to more closely meet the needs o f tsunami recovery operations.
     (iv)    Fund flows will be routed through the government budget and will facilitate
             integration with government finances, allow budgeting, and enable accurate tracking
             o f expenditures.



  As per GoM financial rules, the departments are allowed to spend only from bank accounts kept at the
central bank (MMA).
  NSS has beenmandated to monitor & control the movement o f in-kindaid by controlling the warehousing
and transportation arrangement.


                                              - 12-

    (v)      Urgency i s widely recognized.

                                                                                                        ~
Weaknesses                                       Mitigating actions
The managers o f the recently created TRRF Regular staff o f MoFT will be responsible for managing
have no prior experience in handling day to day operation o f the fund and in addition
financial management activities o f similar      assistance from other public sector agencies (like
operations. The operation i s complicated        MMA)willbeprovidedasrequired. Adequate oversight
due to involvement inmultiple sectors.           mechanisms     will be    established by the      TRRF
                                                 monitoring Board including monthly internal audits and
                                                 half yearly external audits. Overall coordination will be
                                                 provided by the MoFT
The detailed arrangements           o f TRRF An Operations Manual detailing the implementation
management and operations (including             arrangements, financial plan and cross sectoral flows i s
payments) are still being worked out and currently under preparation (to be finalized before
there   i s  risk   that this may        delay   disbursement). Close monitoring and regular reporting
implementation.                                  mechanisms will be adopted by the TRRF. In the
                                                 interim, regular government procedures and financial
                                                 rules are being followed for the emergency work.
The overall FM risk o f the project i s ratec at medium, after implementation o f the mitigation
actions as described above.

Staffing

33.      The TRRF Board, led by the Auditor General, includes three private sector
representatives and a joint representative o f the international donor agencies. The Board will
provide overall oversight and strategic direction to the fund. In addition the day to day
management o f the fund would be entrusted to the government accounting bureau at MoFT. This
team will be headed by Financial Controller and would consist of a chief accountant (accounts
payable) and other senior personnel from procurement, revenue, banking, accounting,
warehousing, inventory management, IT and internal audit. Technical inputs, follow up and
supervision would be provided by the designated personnel o f the line ministries. The Financial
Controller, who has more than two decades o f experience in MoFT and the financial sector, i s
already in place. The other members in the Accounting and Finance team include a professional
accountant with requisite experience with government systems and best practices. Recruitment
for other staff has begun and i s likely to be complete bythirdweek o f February. Inthe meanwhile
support i s being provided by other senior functionaries o f MoFT.

Fund Flows under the Bankfinancedproject (IDA Credit and Grant)

34.      Similar to procedures followed in other World Bank financed operations, the Government
o f Maldives will open a bank account in the name o f TRRF (designated special account, in
accordance with the requirements) with the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). This Bank
account will be administered by the TRRF. An advance aggregating US$5 million to meet the
anticipated expenditures for the initial four months will be provided by IDA through this bank
account. All project related payments to suppliers and contractors will be made on a centralized
basis, directly by the TRRF and later reimbursed from this special account. Replenishments
would be provided to this Bank account by IDA on the basis o f withdrawal applications
evidencing the project related expenditures.




                                               - 13 -

Operations Manual

35.      Government o f Maldives (GoM) i s fully aware o f the importance o f establishing and
adopting a strong financial management system to account for and monitor the utilization o f
funds for the emergency through the Fund, and is in this process of preparing an Operations
Manual which will lay down the ground rules for activity / project evaluation, appraisal and
approval, procurement, flow o f funds, financial reporting, accounting including accounting for
intermediarieddepartments, financial reporting standards, and audit arrangements including the
TOR o f the auditors. This will be based upon existing government financial regulations and will
attempt to amplify the internal and financial controls that should be established in such a
situation. In case o f any inconsistency between existing government financial rules and the
Operations Manual, the latter shall prevail.' Inputs are being provided by various stakeholders
including the Auditor General, Ministry o f Finance and Treasury and departments coordinating
the disaster mitigation activities. This manual will serve as a guide to the operating staff in the
project and a suitable accounting system i s being installed at MoFT to ease preparation o f the
financial and other reports.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

36.      The TRRF will be responsible for funding all project expenditures, accounting for them,
and reporting on financial and physical progress. The Fund will comply with the applicable
international accounting standards and policies, which will be captured inthe Operations Manual.
For this purpose, assistance will be provided by the professional accountants worlung at the
TRRF.

FMand other information systems
37.      The TRRF i s in the process o f establishing an adequate financial management system at
the government accounting bureau in MoFT. This includes documenting and establishing
financial arrangements, control processes, and funds flow arrangements, based upon the best
government practices currently in use, with the possibility o f tailoring them to more closely to
meet the needs o f tsunami recovery operations while ensuring adequate and robust controls.
Initially, an off-the-shelf accounting software i s beingusedby the Fundwhich will be augmented,
according to the program requirements during implementation. All required books o f accounts
will be kept by the TRRF. This accounting system will be voucher based, computerized and
based on double entry accounting system. This system will be able to generate expenditure
information along the lines o f the expenditure classification in the government budget, while also
identifying the fundingsource (donor).

Financia1Reporting

38.      The government departments involved in the supervision and monitoring o f the activities
to be funded through the TRRF will provide the physical reporting and other documentation, that
may be required from an accounting and audit perspective, on a monthly basis to the Fund.The
IDA related reporting requirements and the formats will be spelt out inthe Operations Manual,
and will include as a minimum the physical and financial information necessary to enable
progress monitoring. The Fundwill submit quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) to IDA



'For this purpose, the final Operations Manual will be approved at an appropriate level for adoptionby the
T W .


                                               - 14-

within 45 days o f the end o f the quarter, starting from the end o f the first calendar quarter after
effectiveness. The Operations Manual will provide details on the reporting mechanisms that
should be adopted by the project.

I nterna1 Controls

39.     The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) o f Maldives concluded that
basic controls over budgeting, disbursements, receipts, accounting, and reporting are in place.
Key aspects include controls over the operation o f bank accounts, a budget appropriation and
release process overseen by MoFT, requirements for basic accounting records, certification and
authorization controls over Govemment payroll and other expenditures, and preparation o f
monthly accountingreports for MoFT. Special attention will be paid to distribution o f cash grants
to the beneficiaries, which carries an inherent fiduciary risk, which will be mitigated by
implementing a designthat uses existing govemment controls & systems, i s fully transparent, and
ensures adequate community and local government involvement. The Govemment Financial
Regulations Act, last consolidated in 1992, set out the requirements for the intemal controls and
recording o f public revenue; government expenditure including payroll; government assets
including cash in custody, property and equipment, consumable items and items printed for sale;
procurement and contract management. These Regulations reflect the manual accounting systems
o f the Govemment and are in the process o f being updated as part o f the modernization and
computerization o f the public accounting system. Additional internal control procedures will be
specified in the Operations Manual to bridge any gaps and to promote outcome/output focused
accountability.

40.     Internal Audit. In addition to the regular financial statement audit, the TRRF will be
subjected to a regular internal audit by a firm o f intemational chartered accountants, approved by
the Office o f Auditor General o f Maldives, to assess whether the funds have been disbursed on a
timely basis, reached the intended recipients, transactional controls and propriety has been
maintained and used effectively and efficiently for the intended purposes. Intemal audit terms o f
reference will be detailed in the Operations Manual. This process will result in periodic: (i)
performance audit with identification o f recommendations for enhanced accountability and
transparency, and (ii)  timely corrective actions by the Fund and its implementing agencies.
Selection process for the intemal auditors has begun and they are expected to be inplace by end
February. The audit will begin inMarchand first reports are expected by the middle of April. The
intemal audit reports will be shared with IDA periodically, at request.

41.     External Audit. The Fund, as per the decree issued by the president, is required to be
audited by an intemational firm o f accountants, acceptable to IDA, under international standards
of auditing to maintain full transparency and provide adequate assurance to all the stakeholders.
The audit firm will be nominated by the TRR monitoring Board which includes various
stakeholders including donors. The terms o f reference for the extemal audit will be included in
the Operations Manual, which would include an audit o f the Fund's financial statements. This
would also be used for receiving fiduciary assurance, as the financial statements o f the overall
fund would identify the activities specifically agreed to be financed by IDA. The external audits
would be conducted every six months inthe first year o f the implementation due to the highlevel
of expected expenditures. Thereafter the audit o f the Fundwould be done on an annual basis.

42.     The following audit reports will be monitored inAudit Report Compliance System:




                                              - 15-

 Implementing             Audit Opinion               Auditor                       Timing
 Agency
 TRRF created by          OnTRRF's Financial          An internationalfirmo f       Every 6
 G o M                     Statements including IDA accountants approved by         months
                          financed activities and the the Auditor General
                          snecial account

Disbursement Arrangements

43,      The proceeds o f the Credit / grant would be disbursed against eligible expenditures inthe
following categories:

Disbursement Category              Amount ($million)                  Disbursement %
Safety net Cash Grants to                         5.60                           100%
affected beneficiaries
Sub-grants for restoration o f                    3.OO                           100%
assets and livelhoods
Goods Works and Services for                      5.40                            90%
increasing school capacity and
technical assistance for
management and implementation
Total                                            14.00

44.      Project funds will be disbursed by IDA on the basis o f periodic financial monitoring
reports (FMR), incorporating financial & physical progress reports in agreed formats, submitted
by the project on a quarterly basis. Supporting documentation, including completion reports and
certificates, will be retained by the TRRF and made available to the Bank during project
supervision. This will need to be coordinated by the TRRF and MoFT. The FMRs and the
withdrawal application will be prepared by the TRRF and forwarded to M o F T for approval. The
Fund, in turn, will receive physical progress and other technical reports submitted by the
departments and other implementing agencies (including local governments) and submit
withdrawal applications directly to IDA for replenishment of the SDAs. Donors will agree to
standardized reporting.

45.      Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing will cover the payments already made. The
total amount o f retroactive financing allowed i s 40 percent o f the combined loan and grant which
adds up to US$5.6 million. This would include the expenditures made after the date o f the
tsunami disaster and within 4 months o f the expected loan signing date. It is expected that about
US$4 million o f the retroactive financing will be used to cover the safety net payments already
made by the Government duringJanuary. The remaining part o f the retroactive financing will be
for other programs mostly in education. The expenditure must be backed by adequate
documentation including evidence ofpayment.

46.      Special Account advance. IDA will advance a sum required to meet anticipated
expenditures for the next 2 quarters, through the special account opened by the borrower at the
central bank, MMA.




                                               - 16-

Impact of Procurement arrangements

47.     The procurement under the project would largely be centralized at M o F T and would
require the finance officials o f the fund to closely liaise with them.

Supervision Plan

48.     This project will require intensive supervision inthe initial year to ensure that satisfactory
arrangements are being put inplace for financial accountability and adequate usage o f funds.

Conditionsfor effectiveness

49.     Preparation o f an Operations Manual detailing adequate financial management
arrangements as described above.

G. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS

50.      General. IDA intends to support the Government o f Maldive's program of tsunami
related rehabilitation and reconstruction and would initially focus on (i)    livelihood support, (ii)
education, and (iii)implementation capacity building.

51.      T W . G o M has setup a "Tsunami Relief and Reconstruction Fund" (TRRF) under the
aegis o f the MoFT. The fund would be operated by the MoFT using regular staff and the
oversight will be provided by TRRF monitoring board appointed by the President. TRRF
monitoring board i s chaired by Auditor General and includes representation from both the public
sector, the private sector, and the donors. Activities proposed by agencies need to obtain the
approval o f the Ministerial council to be eligible for financing under TREV.

52.     Procurement Rules. Procurement actions by all the beneficiarieso f the proposedprogram
would be carried out in accordance with the procedures in TRRF Operations Manual. The
procedures will largely be based on the current Financial Regulations o f the G o M and
international procurement practices. The proposed manual shall include information such as
detailed procurement rules, methods, use o f SBDsRFPs, appeal mechanism, blacklisting
mechanism for suppliers/contractors, technical guidance notes etc. The proposed manual will be
finalized and agreed by IDA prior to the disbursement o f first tranche o f funds.

53.      Procurement Responsibility. MoFT shall take the overall responsibility for all
Procurement actions under the TRRF. However Procurement o f goods, works and services and
disbursement o f grants for livelihood support activities shall be implemented either by M o F T or
any other agency identified by MoFT.

Capacity Review and Risk assessment

Procurement Rules of the Government of Maldives

 54.     Legal and Procedural Framework: (a) Procurement of works, goods and consulting
services:

     (i)     Procurement of works and goods: Government Financial Regulations (FR)                   -
             Chapter 6, details the thresholds and steps to be followed in procurement o f works.
             The findings are as follows: All works contracts estimated to cost more than


                                                - 17-

             Rf.10,000 - 500,000 (US$800 - 40,000) could be handled by the executing agency
             (EA) and need to be advertised. Bids will have to be re-invited if less than three
             biddquotations are received.

    (ii)     Bidding and evaluation for all contracts above Rf.500,000 (US$40,000) will be
             handled by the Tender Evaluation Board (TEB) constituted under the Ministry o f
             Finance and Treasury (MoFT) and awarded by the line Ministry. This TEB was
             formerly constituted under the Ministry o f Construction and Public Works, now re-
             named as Ministry o f Environment and construction. A pre-qualification procedure
             has to be followed for all contracts estimated to cost more than Rf.5,000,000
             (US$400,000) and for complex contracts.

55.     FR lists the steps required to be taken, makes references to the bidding process, and
always requests a public bid opening with representation o f bidders and opening o f bids
immediately after submission. FR lists out key conditions to be included in the conditions o f
contract: duration of contract, liquidated damages and rate, retention money, dispute resolution
mechanism and remedies against performance and default, and advance payment. However, FR
does not guide on the time that shouldbe allowed for preparation o f bids, but it i s the established
practice to allow about one month for bids invited from national firms following Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures and upto three months for contracts following
International Competitive procedures. G o M does not restrict any foreign participation as a joint
venture partner for LCB, but requests the joint venture partner to register the company in
Maldives upon selection as the winning bidder for the duration o fthe contract.

56.     G o M does not canyout price negotiations with the winningbidder.

57.     According to FR, TEB i s responsible for monitoring the progress of the works including
certifying the progress bills. Inaddition, TEB i s nominated to handle contractual disputes. This
practice could be seen as a potential conflict o f interest.

58.     Guidelines. The then the Ministry o f Construction and Public Works issued         " Tender
Guidelines for Govemment Projects" in December 2001. This document includes a circular and
six annexes as described below: Annex 1- Consultant's Selection for Govemment Projects;
Annex 2 - Pre qualification information sheet; Annex 3 -Pre qualification document; Annex 4 -
Tender and Contract Document (Part I); 5 - Tender and Contract Document (Part 11);
                                            Annex
Annex 6 Tender Board procedures for Local Competitive bidding. The pre-qualification and
tender documents are based on the World Bank's standard pre qualification and bidding
documents for procurement o f small works. Circular on selection o f consultants does not detail
the steps or the method. There i s guidance that proposals shouldbe invited from firms that have at
least two years experience and that have handled at least one project for G o M and have
availability o f qualified staff.

59.     Comments about GoMguidelines. The pre-qualificationprocedures follow a point system
for qualifying the bidders but does not disclose the distribution o f points upfront. The documents
request the bidders to propose the time for completion rather than indicating the intended
completion period in advance. It was also noted that M o F T has recently prepared a document for
supply and installation o f goods based on Bank's SBD Goods. Inaddition they have prepared
documents and invited bids for award o f contracts on the basis of supplier's credit. FR has n o
detailed steps for theprocurement ofgoods but covered little under 6.13 and 6.17. Itmay because
it has mandatedprocurement o f goods from State Trading Organization (STO) (FR6.17 (a)).




                                             - 1 8 -

60.      Upon request from government departments or ministries, the STO handles procurement
of various items including medical drugs and surgical equipment and consumables. Usually STO
follows shopping procedures for such procurement from their database o f registered suppliers.
The registrationprocedure i s open for any organization and round the year.

61.      (b) Selection of Consultants: There are no provisions inthe FR.However circular giving
a very brief note has been prepared by MCPW in December 2001 for selection o f consultants for
civil works.

62.      (e) Publication of awards: MoFT has commenced publishing in the local newspapers a
list of winning bidders and contracts on a monthly basis begmning from November 2004.

63.      (d) Appealskhallenges mechanismfor contract award determination: The only system
available i s to appeal to the Anti corruption Board.

64.      (e)Suspension/blacklisting    of  contractorshppliers: G o M has blacklisted several
contractors despite a lack o f formal mechanism for doing so.

65.      fl Anti corruption measures:The        Anti Corruption Board (ACB) established under a
Presidential Directive in 1991 1s active. The ACB receives around 60 complaints annually,
including complaints from suppliers and contractors. Ifneeded, the Board o f ACB can request the
procuring entities to hold decisions until the complaint has been investigated. Most o f the
complaints are finalized within two months period and depending on the outcome o f the findings
the complaints are either referred to: (a) Attorney General for prosecution; (b) imposing fines; or
(c) recommendedto be dropped as found baseless.

66.      (g) Procurement Procedures for activitiesfinanced by Foreign Financing Institutions:
According to our understanding o f paragraph 6.11 (f) o f Government Financial Regulations, the
implementing agency may carryout all the procurement actions if financed by foreign funding
agencies by a coordinating committee appointed with the approval o f the President's Office
following procedures agreed with the Financing Institution. IDA agrees for national procedures
with a list o f "Improved BiddingProcedures" for NCB works contracts.

Recommended Actions for Improving the Procurement Capacity of the Implementing Agencies

67.      Based on the review o f GoM's procurement regulations and practices described above, it
i s recommended that the G o M review and revise the existing Procurement Guidelines in the
Financial Regulations to bring them in line with good international public procurement practices.
This will include provisions for dispute resolutionand suspension andblacklistingprocedure.

68.      IDA could seek the possibility o f processing a IDF grant to carryout the proposed
improvement and capacity buildingactivities to improve the current procurement environment.

DetailedRecommendations:

Objective           1Proposed Action                                                  1ByWhom
Improvement o f     I(a)Review and revise the current procurement guidelines in
the-Procedural       FRto bringinline withthe current needs and align withbest         G o M
and Legal            internationalpublic procurement practices. This needs to done
Framework            with the participation o f stakeholders including the Auditor
                     General and Attorney General. Introduce a transparent dispute

                         resolutionmechanism, appeals/challenges duringthe
                         procurement process and against contract award
                         determination, suspensiodblacklistingmechanism for
                         contractors.

                         (b)Prepare SamplehtandardBiddingand Sample Raps for
                         procurement and selection o f consultants. These may be based
                         on harmonizeddocuments agreedby donors. Quotation forms,
                         simple contract forms etc.

                         (c)Introduce e-procurement in a staged manner

  Capacity               Develop a training plan, material and implement training                   G o M
  Building               programs for all procuring entities, including suppliers
                         contractors and consultants.
  Introduction o f       Develop and implement an effective procurement monitoring                  G o M
  Effective              system within MoFT which includes a performance
  Procurement            monitoring system for contracts o f all government agencies.
  Monitoring

  69.      Agreements. (i) o M shall prepare an Operations Manual largely based on the current
                               G
  Financial Regulations o f the G o M and international best procurement practices prior to
  disbursement o f the first tranche o f funds from IDA. (ii)           Intemal audit shall include audit o f
  compliance to agreed procurement procedures inthe Operations Manual.(iii) G o M inthe medium
  and long term shall review and revise its procurement procedures in line with international best
  procurementpractices.

  H. SAFEGUARDS

         Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes                  N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                     [XI                   11
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                 [ I                   [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     [ I                   [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                        [ I                   [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                          [I                    [XI
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                          [ I                   [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                          [ I                   [XI
Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                  [ I                   [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                     [I                    [XI
Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                            [ I                   [XI

  70.      An Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF - the
  "Framework")       has been prepared to undertake environment impact assessments (EIAs) for
  rehabilitation and reconstruction activities with the purpose to ensure that adverse environmental
  and social impacts are minimized, and appropriate mitigation measures are included in subproject
  designs. The Framework which has been developed to ensure compliance with World Bank




  * By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
  claims on the disputed areas


                                                   -20-

safeguard policies as well as the Bank's OP 8.50 on Emergency Recovery Assistance, i s
applicable to all subprojects funded under the project. Neither GoM, nor its implementing
agencies shall undertake any reconstruction or recovery activities that could cause any
environmental or social impacts in the absence o f an environmental assessment conducted in
accordance with the ESSAFthat i s satisfactory to IDA.A detailed discussion of the Framework i s
presented inAppendix 2.

71.     Recognizing the emergency nature of the project, and the related need for providing
immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing potential
environmental and social risks, the Framework i s based on: (i)key policy principles for
environmental and social risk management; (ii)  tools to screen subprojects for environmental and
social impacts and mitigate such impacts; (iii)procedures to ensure that these principles and tools
are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring. The
Framework assists the Government and its implementing agencies in screening subprojects for
likely environmental and social impacts, identifyingdocumentation and preparation requirements
through the application of standardized guidelines and codes of practice.




                                           -21 -

                 MALDIVES: Post-TsunamiRecovery and ReconstructionProject

           Appendix 1:TsunamiDamages andReconstructionCosts and Financing

                       Table 1: EstimatedLosses and FinancingNeedsinUS$ million
          Sector                             Losses                          Costs ofReconstruction(2)
                                Direct   I Indirect    1   Total      Needsfor Medium Total
                                                                                  I         I      I    Public




                                 TotalFinancing Gap including revenue loss aspercent of GDP                   48%


(2) Reconstruction costs in some sectors are higher than damages because (a) some partially damaged houses will
needto be fully rebuiltbecause the original islands are not livable anymore; and (b) newenvironmental standards
apply to new facilities.

(3) Some o f the losses in tourism and transport will be covered by insurance.

(4) These estimates are preliminary.
Source: Maldives Tsunami: Impact and Recovery. Joint Needs Assessment by World Bank, ADB and UN




                                                      - 22 -


              MALDIVES: Post-TsunamiRecoveryAnd ReconstructionProject

                              Appendix 2: SafeguardPolicyIssues


       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENINGAND ASSESSMENT
                                         FRAMEWORK

I. Objectives

1.      The Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF)
details general policies, guidelines,         and procedures to be integrated into the
implementation o f the IDA supported Post-Tsunami Recovery and Reconstruction
Project in the Maldives. The project aims to support the efforts o f the Government o f
Maldives to address immediate post-tsunami needs and to start the reconstruction
process. This operation will be implemented over a period o f three years but much o f the
work i s expected to be completed during the first year. The project has been prepared in
accordance with the World Bank's OP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance, to expedite
processing and provide immediate support through a proposed grant o f $5.6 million and
a credit o f $8.4 million focusing on: (i)   restoration of livelihoods through safety net cash
transfers to the affected and a program to restore lost or damaged assets; (ii)        increased
school capacity, including additional schools and facilities, on islands receiving
populations permanently displaced by the tsunami; and (iii)technical skills for
implementingthe post-tsunami reconstructionprogram.

2.      The ESSAF has been developed to ensure compliance with the World Bank's
safeguard policies and i s applicable to all subprojects funded under the project. The
objective o f the ESSAF i s to ensure that activities under the proposed reconstruction
operations will address the following:
                Enhancepositive and sustainable environmental and socialoutcomes;
                Support the integration of environmental and social aspects of subprojects into
                the decisionmaking process;
                Ensure environmentally and sustainable development by supporting the
                protection, conservation, maintenance and rehabilitation of natural habitats and
                their functions;
                Minimize environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects
                or their cumulative effects;
                Protecthumanhealth;
                Minimize impacts on cultural property; and
                Assist displaced people in improving or at least restoring their livelihoods and
                standards of living to pre-displacementlevels.


11.     GeneralPrinciples

3.      Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction operations
and the related need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due


                                                24

diligence in managing potential environmental and social risks, the ESSAF i s based on the
following principles:

        The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs o f which
        may not be known at appraisal. To ensure effective application o f the World Bank's
        safeguard policies, the ESSAF provides guidance on the approach to be taken during
        implementation for the selection and design o f subprojects and the planning o f mitigation
        measures;
        Environmental category `A' subprojects are not expected in the first year's subprojects.
        If any do occur, EAs for specific subprojects will be prepared during implementation,
        instead o f before appraisal and are subject to approval by the World Bank. Corrective
        measures in the form o f an Environmental Management Plan will be built into either the
        emergency project or a future lending operation. The above i s in accordance with
        paragraph 13 o f OP 4.01 and paragraph 5 o f BP 4.01 on emergency recovery assistance;
        The overall aim o f the proposed operations i s to ensure the sustainable restoration o f the
        habitats and livelihoods o f populations displaced or affected by the tsunami. The
        overarching principles o f the World Bank's social safeguard policies are instructive on
        the use o f systematic and cost effective mechanisms to achieve this objective. These
        include: (i)  consultations with affected people inthe preparation o f relocation plans and
        ensuringthat their views and concerns are made known to decisionmakers and taken into
        account; (ii)  socio-economic surveys to identify and assess social impacts, including loss
        o f assets, income source or livelihoods; (iii)disclosure o f relocation plans to the affected
        population and dissemination o f information on their rights and measures to improve or
        restore their livelihoods; and (iv) strategies to ensure that benefits are also provided to
        host communities, where applicable. Since a major element in the recent World Bank
        strategy to support the Maldives has been to support the population consolidation policy
        as protection against rising sea-levels and to improve public services, it would be good
        practice for the Govemment to adopt these policy principles. The adoption o f these
        principles would contribute to institutionalizing good practice and facilitate more
        effective and participatory implementation o f the Govemment's own relocationpolicy, as
        well as facilitate the preparation o f donor projects. It would also be good practice for the
        Govemment to undertake social assessments detailing social impacts and measures to
        mitigate these impacts, as well as present planning documents which include the
        outcomes o f consultations with affected communities;
        Inthe unlikely event that people are physically or economically affectedbyBank funded
        subprojects, appropriate social studies, in accordance with the requirements o f OP 4.12
        will be prepared. These studies can be prepared during implementation, providing a
        timetable for their preparation duringimplementationi s agreed with IDA at appraisal.
        The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will finance feasibility and detailed
        design studies for these subsequent investments, which will include environmental
        assessments and social studies as required by World Bank safeguard policies;
        Employment opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all,
        on the basis o f professional competence, irrespective o f gender. In all projects which
        require consultations with local communities or beneficiaries, consultations will be
        conducted to elicit the views o f the male, female and vulnerable populations; and
        Consultation and disclosure requirements will be adapted to meet the special needs o f
        these operations. This ESSAF will be disclosed in the sector ministries and other public
        places inthe Maldives and inthe World Bank Infoshop.



                                                 25

111.     Environmental and Social Screeningand Assessment Framework (ESSAF)

4.       This ESSAF has been developed specifically for these proposed operations (Section 1.1,
above) to ensure due diligence and to avoid causing harm to the environment or exacerbating
social tensions. The purpose o f this Framework i s also to assist the Project Implementing
Agencies in screening all the subprojects for their likely social and environmental impacts,
identify documentation and prepare requirements, and prioritizing the investments.

5.       OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Most o f the proposed subprojects are likely to
focus on the restoration o f livelihoods, education services and technical skills for implementing
the post-tsunami reconstruction. While work inthese areas will be done under OP 4.01, OP 4.04
onnatural habitatsmay also be triggered.

6.       Considering the nature and magnitude o f potential environmental impacts from relatively
limited scale and magnitude o f reconstruction works, the proposed operations are likely to be
classified as category `B'. The requirement to carry out an Environmental Analysis as part o f
project preparation can be waived, but for subprojects with possible adverse impacts, a limited
Environmental Analysis will be prepared after approval and before implementation o f the
respective subprojects. To address specific issues, prior to appraisal the implementing agency
will agree to apply the following minimum standards during implementation: inclusion o f
standard environmental codes o f practice (ECOP) inthe repair and reconstructionbid documents
of all subprojects; review and oversight o f any major reconstruction works by specialists;
implementation o f environmentally and socially sound options for disposal o f debris; and
provisions for adequate budget and satisfactory institutional arrangements for monitoring
effective implementation.

7.       OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.        The need for involuntary resettlement is highly
unlikely and will only be known when site-specific plans are available. Subprojects will be
screened for applicability o f the resettlement policy. In the event that people are physically or
economically displaced by Bank funded subprojects, IDA will, in applicable circumstances,
require a draft resettlement plan prepared inaccordance with the requirements o f OP 4.12, before
the commencement o f any relocation activities. This plan i s subject to the approval o f IDA.

8.       OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. The five defining characteristics normally used (OD 4.20,
paragraph 5) to identify indigenous peoples are not applicable in the Maldivian context. The
policy does not apply, nevertheless, a potential vulnerability assessment o f all affected groups is
planned to ensure effective consultations and definition o f appropriate benefits.

9.        OPN 11.03 Cultural Property. The emergency operation may pose limited risks o f
damaging cultural property, assuming that they will not include large-scale excavations,
movement o f earth or demolition. Nevertheless, projects and subprojects will be reviewed for
their potential impact on cultural property and clear procedures will be required for identification,
protection o f cultural property from theft, and treatment o f discovered artifacts, and will be
included in standard bidding documents.       While not damaging cultural property, subproject
preparation may later identify and include assistance for preservation o f historic or archeological
sites. If these opportunities occur, cultural property management plans would be prepared for
those subprojects in compliance with OPN 11.30 and local laws and regulations.

 10.     OP4.04 NaturalHabitats.          The Maldives can be considered as a sensitive
ecosystem, endowed with large tracts o f environmentally sensitive natural habitats. Conservation
of such habitats during reconstruction i s essential. Although a detailed survey has not yet been
undertaken, based on the experience o f other tsunami affected countries, areas where natural


                                                26

resources such as mangroves, sand dunes and reefs were degraded or destroyed most likely
suffered more from the tsunami compared to areas where the natural barriers were intact. This
underlies the importance o f conserving natural habitats. Since the World Bank will not support
subprojects that involve conversiono f critical natural habitats an EA i s required prior to initiation
of any specific subproject that could possibly affect the conversion o f natural habitats. Decisions
on actions and requirements will be made with the concurrence o fthe Bank.


IV.     Safeguard Screening and Mitigation

11.     Subproject selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation will be consistent
with the following guidelines, codes o f practice and requirements. The safeguard screening and
mitigation process will include:

        *:*  A list o fineligible subprojects listedinAttachment 1;
        *:*  A proposed checklist of likely environment and social impacts to be filled out for
             each subproject or group o f subprojects, Attachment 2;
        *3 Guidelines for asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation, Attachment 3;
        *:*  Overall guidelines for environment and social aspects o f the Tsunami Emergency
             Recovery Program as well as procedures for the protection of cultural property,
             including the chance discovery o f archaeological artifacts, unrecorded graveyards
             and burial sites, Attachment 4;
        *:*  Relevant elements o f the codes o f practice for the prevention and mitigation o f
             potential environmentalimpacts, Attachment 5;
        *:*  Recommended Environmental Codes o f Practice, Attachment 6; and
        *3 A sample Environmental Safeguards procedures for Inclusion in the Technical
             Specifications o f Contracts, Attachment 7.


V.      Responsibilitiesfor Safeguard Screening, Mitigation and Clearance

12.     All project supported activities and other expenditures would be approved and authorized
by a high powered Ministerial Council. Urgent relief activities will be approved by the Chief
Coordinator o f the disaster task force which groups all senior bureaucrats including decision
makers under one roof and coordinates the relief efforts by donors and NGOs. A s a policy, the
disaster task force will require the ESSAF to be adopted by all implementing agencies. This
authority will ensure that all reconstruction activities that will be implemented by sub-national
agencies adhere to the requirements o f the ESSAF, and that designated environment and social
development specialists are appointed for overseeing the implementation and monitoring o f the
Framework.       A focal person will be appointed for oversight on required environmental
clearances and approval o f required environment and social studies. The World Bank will assign
specialists to facilitate the implementation o f the ESSAF and provide approval of environmental
and social assessmendstudies requiring Bank clearance.


VI.     Capacity-Building and Monitoring of Safeguard FrameworkImplementation

13.     As part o f the capacity-building to be provided for implementation o f the proposed
operations, the designated environment and social development specialists worlung with the task
force as well as relevant staff o f the concerned Ministries and implementing agencies will receive
training in ESSAF's application. During supervision o f these operations, the World Bank will


                                                   27

assess the implementation o f the ESSAF, andrecommend additional strengthening, ifrequired. A
comprehensive review o f ESSAF's application will be undertaken by the World Bank 18 months
after project effectiveness.


VII. ConsultationandDisclosure

14.      This ESSAF will be shared by the Government o f Maldives, with concerned
nongovernmental organizations and development partners o f Maldives reconstruction. It will be
disclosed in Dhivehi and Englishby the Ministry o f Planning and National Development and it
will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop. Relevant subproject specific safeguard
documentdmitigation plansprepared subsequently will also be disclosed.

15.      The proposed operations may support a number o f feasibility and detailed design studies
for future infrastructure investments for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to
consultation and disclosure will apply.      In particular, for environmental Category A and B
investments' proposed for future operations, the implementing agency will consult project-
affected groups and local nongovernmental organizations on the project's environmental and
social aspects, and will take their views into account. The implementing agency will initiate
these consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful consultations, will provide relevant
material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and language(s) that are
understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.

16.      For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least
twice: (a) shortly after the environmental screening and prior to finalization o f the terms o f
reference for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA); and (b) once a draft EL4 report i s
prepared. For the initial consultation, the implementing agency will provide a summary o f the
proposed project's objectives, description, and potential impacts. For both Category A and B
projects, the implementing agency will provide these groups with a summary o f the EL4report's
conclusions. Inaddition, the implementing agency will make the draft reports publicly available
to project-affectedgroups and local nongovemmental organizations.


VIII. Guidelinesfor preparationofEnvironmentalManagementPlans

17.      Having identified the potential impacts o f the relevant sub-component, the next step o f
the EA process involves the identification and development o f measures aimed at eliminating,
offsetting and/or reducing impacts to levels that are environmentally acceptable during
implementation and operation o f the project (EMP). EMPs provide an essential link between the
impacts predicted and mitigation measures specified within the EA and implementation and
operation activities. World Bank guidelines state that detailed EMPs are essential elements for
Category A projects, but for many Category B projects, a simple EMP alone will suffice. While
there are no standard formats for EMPs, it i s recognized that the format needs to fit the
circumstances inwhich the EMP i s being developed and the requirements, which it i s designed to
meet. EMPs should be prepared after talung into account comments from both the PAA and IDA
as well as any clearance conditions. Given below are the important elements that constitute an
EMP.




* As defined inWorld Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.


                                                 28

a. Description of mitigation measures
18.      Feasible and cost effective measures to minimize adverse impacts to acceptable levels
should be specified with reference to each impact identified. Further, it should provide details on
the conditions under which the mitigation measure should be implemented (e.g., routine or inthe
event o f contingencies). The EMP also should distinguish between type o f solution proposed
(structural & non-structural) and the phase in which it should become operable (design,
construction and/or operational). Efforts should also be made to mainstream environmental and
social opportunities as reasonable.

b. Monitoringprogram
19.      Inorder to ensure that the proposed mitigatory measures have the intended results and
complies with national standards and donor requirements, an environmental performance
monitoring program should be included inthe EMP. The monitoring program should give details
o f the following;

          *:* Monitoring indicators to be measured for evaluating the performance o f each
              mitigatory measure (for example national standards, engineering structures, extent o f
              area replanted, etc).
          *:* Monitoringmechanisms and methodologies

          *:e Monitoring frequency
          *3 Monitoringlocations

c. Institutional arrangements
20.      Institutiodparties responsible for implementing mitigation measures and for monitoring
their performance should be clearly identified. Where necessary, mechanisms for institutional co-
ordination should be identified as often monitoring tends to involve more than one institution.

d. Implementing schedules
21.      Timing, frequency and duration o f mitigation measures with links to overall
implementation schedule o f the project should be specified.

e. Reportingprocedures
22.      Feedback mechanisms to inform the relevant parties on the progress and effectiveness o f
the mitigation measures and monitoring itself should be specified. Guidelines on the type of
information wanted and the presentation o f feedback information should also be highlighted.

J: Cost estimates and sources of funds
23.       Implementation o f mitigation measures mentioned in the EMP will involve an initial
investment cost as well as recurrent costs. The EMP should include costs estimates for each
measure and also identify sources o f funding.




                                                29

                                                                                      Attachment 1


                             List ofNegativeSubproject Attributes


Subprojects with any o f the attributes listedbelow will be ineligible for support under the
proposed emergency reconstruction operations.

                               AttributesofIneligibleSubprojects

                               GENERALCHARACTERISTICS

Conceming significant conversion or degradation o f critical natural habitats. Including, but not
limitedto, any activity within:
    0  Wildlife Reserves;
    0  Sensitive marine ecosystems; and
    0  Parks or Sanctuaries.

Damages cultural property, includingbut not limited to, any activities that affect the following
sites:
    0  Archaeological or historical sites; and
    0  Religious monuments, structures or cemeteries.




                                                 30

             MALDIVES: Post-TsunamiRecoveryandReconstructionProject
                          APPENDIX3: DOCUMENTS      INTHE PROJECTFILE



A. World Bank-Asian Development Bank -UNSystem Joint Assessments, Main Report,
       January 16,2005

1.     Annex 1- Macroeconomic Impact
2.     Annex 2 - Social Impact Assessment
3.     Annex 3- Employment and Safety Net
4.     Annex 4 - Education and Training Sector
5.     Annex 5 - Health
6.     Annex 6 - Housing Sector
7.     Annex 7 -Water Supply, Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Sector
8.     Annex 8 - Tourism Sector
9.     Annex 9 - Fisheries Sector
10.    Annex 10 - Agriculture Sector
11.    Annex 11-Transport and Communication Sector
12.    Annex 12- Power Sector
13.    Annex 13 - Environment
14.    Annex 14 - Gender
15.    Annex 15 - Food
16.    Annex 16 -Disaster Management and Vulnerability Reduction Sector

B. World Bank -Asian Development Bank -UNSystem -JBIC Joint Needs Assessments,
        Tsunaini: Impact and Recovery Report, February G, 2005

1.     Annex 1- Macroeconomic Impact
2.     Annex 2 - Social Impact Assessment
3.     Annex 3- Employment and Safety Net
4.     Annex 4 - Education and Training Sector
5.     Annex 5 - Health
6.     Annex 6 - Housing Sector
7.     Annex 7 - Water Supply, Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Sector
8.      Annex 8 - Tourism Sector
9.      Annex 9 - Fisheries Sector
10.     Annex 10 - Agriculture Sector
11.     Annex 11 - Transport and Communication Sector
12.     Annex 12- Power Sector
13.     Annex 13 - Environment
14.     Annex 14 - Gender
15.     Annex 15 - Food
16.     Annex 16 - Disaster Management and Vulnerability Reduction Sector

*Including electronic files




                                                31

                   MALDIVES: Post-TsunamiRecoveryandReconstructionProject


                                APPENDIX4: STATEMENTOFLOAN CREDITS           AND




                                                                                                           Difference between
                                                                                                           expected and actual
                                                    Original Amount inUS$Millions                            disbursements

Project    FY  Purpose                            IBRD       IDA       SF     GEF     Cancel. Undisb.      Orig.        Fllll.
ID                                                                                                                     Rev'd
PO55944   2000 I11EDUC & TRAIN.                     0.00     17.60      0.00    0.00    0.00  2.366746   1.5029303        0.00
PO78523   2005 IntegratedHuman
               DevelopmentProject                   0.00     25.60?     0.00    0.00    0.00  16.23061   1.5864367        0.00


                                         Total:     0.00     43.20      0.00    0.00    0.00                              0.00




                                                  STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                 InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                           Committed                             Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                  IFC
      FY          Company                    Loan        Equity    Quasi    Partic. Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.
      Approval
      2001        MFLC                       3.00         1.25       0.00     0.00     2.00     1.25     0.00       0.00
       2004       Taj Maldives               8.50         0.00       0.00     8.50     8.50     0.00     0.00       8.50
       2002       Villa Shipping             9.50         0.00       4.50     0.00     4.50     0.00     4.50       0.00
                           Total portfilio:    21.OO      1.25       4.50     8.50    15.00     1.25     4.50       8.50




                                                                       Approvals PendingCommitment

                  FY             Company                           Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic.
                  Approval




                                 Total pendingcommittment:         0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00




                                                                32

                    MALDIVES: Post-Tsunami Recovery andReconstruction Project
                                                 APPENDIX5: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE

                                                                                               Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                     South     middle-
                                                                  Maldives            Asia     income            Developmentdiamond.
                                                                                                               ~




2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                        0.29           1,401      2,411                          Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    2,090            460       1,390         I
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       0.60            640       3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                 I
Population (%)                                                           2.3            1.8         1.o
Laborforce (%)                                                           2.4            2.3         1.2          GNI                                        Gross
                                                                                                                 per                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                            capita                                 nroiiment
Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline)                                                              I

Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                                  28              28         49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          69              63          69
Infant mortality(per 7,000 live births)                                  58              71          30
Chiid malnutrition(% of children under 5)                                                            11        1       Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                     100              84          81
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 75+)                                        3             44          13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                     131              97        111              -Maldives
    Male                                                                131             108        111                       Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                              131              89        110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                           1982        1992           2001        2002
                                                                                                                  Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                          0.05       0.28           0.62         0.62
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                                         21.8                                           Trade
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                            20.0                       87.2
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                                             38.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                                              27.3

Currentaccount baiancelGDP                                 -39.9        -6.9           -9.8
Interestpayments/GDP                                          1.7        0.5            0.7         0.7
Total debffGDP                                             135.9       33.3            37.6        43.8
Total debt service/exports                                   5.3         3.2            4.6                                             1
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                               28.3
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                           37.4                                        Indebtedness

                                           1982-92      1992-02        2001           2002     2002-06
(average annual growth)                                                                                         1     -Maldives
GDP                                                           6.0        3.5             2.3
GDP per capita                                                3 5        I 1             0 0                    I     -       Lower-middle-income group


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% ofGDP)
Agriculture
industry                                                                                                          20
    Manufacturing                                                                                                  0
Services                                                                                                         -20

Privateconsumption                                                                     38.1                                                                      I
Generalgovernment consumption                                                          23.7                                  -GDI              +GDP
Importsof goods and services

                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                        1982-92     1992-02           2001        2002           Growth of exports and imports (YO)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                  6.2         2.1             1.6        1.4          30 -
Industry                                                     10.3        8.8             4.7        2.7
    Manufacturing                                            10.1        5.6             3.1        1.5
Services                                                    10.2         8.6            -3.0

Privateconsumption                                                       3.0             4.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                            13.3             7.7
Gross domestic investment                                                5.2             6.7
 Importsof goods and services                                            7.6             1.9

*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                    33

                       MALDIVES: Post-TsunamiRecovery andReconstructProject
                                      APPENDIX5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                          (CONT.)



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                  1982     1992         2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                                           Inflation (%)
                                                                                           -
(% change)                                                                               15

Consumer prices                                    22.0     16.8         0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                                                    0.6     1.o
Government finance
("A of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                             27.7        32.6    34.7
Current budget balance                                       9.8         6.4     7.9                -GDP      deflator   -0-CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                                    -11.8        -4.9            ~
                                                                                -6.8

TRADE
                                                  1982     1992        2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                           Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                          65          110             400 ;
  Marine exports                                             32           44
  Garments                                                    8           32
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                         189          348
  Food                                                                    85
  Fuel and energy                                            23           48
  Capital goods                                                                         1
Export price index (1995=100)                                86          123                    96    97    98   99      00     01  02

Import price index (1995=100)                                92           79                         Exports       mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                    94          156

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                  1982     1992         2001   2002     1
(US$ millions)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP (Oh)
Exports of goods and services                        77     219          464
Imports of goods and services                        94     217          457
Resource balance                                    -17       2            7

Net income                                           -5     -17          -35
Net current transfers                                 3       -5         -30     -42

Current account balance                             -19     -20          -61

Financing items (net)                               26       17          40
Changes in net reserves                              -7       3           21      -5

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                       18           94
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                    7.2     10.6        12.2    12.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1982     1992         2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                          1Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                65       95          235    270
  IBRD                                                0       0            0       0
  IDA                                                 2      22           44      50

Total debt service                                    4       7           22      22
  IBRD                                               0        0            0       0
  IDA                                                0        0            1       1

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                     1      12           15       0
  Official creditors                                 6       13            4      10
  Private creditors                                  0        3            1      15
  Foreign direct investment                          0        7           12       0
  Portfolio equity                                   0        0            0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                        0       10            0       0     A IBRD
                                                                                           -                                E Bilateral
                                                                                                                               ~
  Disbursements                                      0        8            0       3      B- IDA      D-Othermultilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                             .
  Principal repayments                               0        0            0       1     C IMF
                                                                                            .                               G- Short-tern
  Net flows                                          0        8            0       3
  Interest payments                                  0        0            0       0
  Net transfers                                      0        8           -1       2

Note: I nistable was proaucea from tne ueveropment tconomics central aatabase.




                                                                       34


MAP SECTION


