Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4042 - MAL 
GRANT NUMBER H148 - MAL 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Post 
–
Tsunami Recovery and Reconstruction Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 17, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4042 - MAL 
GRANT NUMBER H148 - MAL 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Cash Grant” means a safety net grant made, or to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Grant to finance livelihood support activities under Part A.1 of the 
Project, in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual (as this 
term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework” or 
“ESSAF” means the Borrower’s environmental and social assessment management 
framework dated February 15, 2005, satisfactory to the Association, including any 
amendments made to such document from time to time with the Association’s prior 
approval.  The ESSAF sets forth the environmental and social safeguards applicable to 
the Project including, inter alia, the identification, assessment and mitigation of potential 
environmental and social impacts arising from carrying out Project activities; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“MFT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Treasury or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“Operations Manual” means the Project’s operations manual, satisfactory 
to the Association, to be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Operations Manual; 
 
(h) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Financing Accounts referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made, or to be made out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, to finance Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual;  
 
(k) 
“Sub-project” means any activity under Part A.2 of the Project, in respect 
of which a Sub-grant has been, or may be, made out of the proceeds of the Credit in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the Operations Manual; and 
 
(l) 
“Tsunami Relief and Reconstruction Fund” means the fund established 
by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 3/2005 dated January 9, 2005, for the purpose of 
managing the financial assistance received for the Tsunami relief and reconstruction. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5, 600,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR3, 700,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum . 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2015 and ending February 15, 2045. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2025, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment of the Credit to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MFT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, health and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Operations Manual and
 
the Environmental and Social 
Screening and Assessment Framework. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as 
said provisions may be further elaborated in the Operations Manual. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) For the purpose of carrying out any livelihood support activity 
or Sub-project under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association pursuant to which the Borrower shall carry out any such 
activity and select any Sub-project in accordance with the procedures and eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operations Manual. 
 
(b) 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, no 
expenditures required for a livelihood support activity or a Sub-project shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Financing, unless the Borrower shall have carried 
out, in accordance with the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment 
Framework, an environmental assessment for the activity or the Sub-project, and shall 
have undertaken processes and activities to mitigate any negative environmental impacts 
of such activity or Sub-project in accordance with the Environmental and Social 
Screening and Assessment Framework, together with evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, that the Sub-project shall not involve any involuntary resettlement of the 
local population and/or businesses and that there shall not be any construction in 
environmentally sensitive areas as defined in the Environmental and Social Screening 
and Assessment Framework. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect operations and financial condition of the Tsunami Relief and 
Reconstruction Fund and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each six months (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than three months after the end of each such six months 
(or such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such six months (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.3 of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each six 
months (or other period agreed to by the Association), referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Operations Manual has been duly adopted by the Borrower, 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association in accordance with paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Ameenee Magu 
Malé 
Republic of Maldives 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(960) 324432 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Mohamed 
Jaleel 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/Alastair J. McKechnie 
Country Director 
Maldives 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Cash 
Grants 
3,700,000   
100% 
 
under Part A.1 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) Sub-grants 
2,000,000 
 
 
100% 
 
under Part A.2 
 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Goods, works and 
3,600,000 
 
 
90% 
 
consultants’ services 
 
 
 
under Parts B and C 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
________ _______ 
 
TOTAL 
   
5,600,000
3,700,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals
,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR3, 
700,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after December 26, 2005. 
 
3. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Financing Accounts to be made 
on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Financing Accounts, the Borrower shall submit 
Page  13
-
11
-
to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Maldives Monetary Authority or in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Financing Accounts of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the 
Annex to this Schedule 1 (Report-based Disbursements). 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Financing Accounts; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon 
such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
Page  14
-
12
-
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement. 
Page  15
-
13
-
Annex  
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be deposited 
by the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or the 
Grant, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out a program of 
recovery and reconstruction related to the Tsunami. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Restoration of Livelihoods
Carrying out a program for restoration of livelihoods to provide: (1) Cash Grants 
to the persons affected by the Tsunami; and (2) Sub-grants to finance Sub-projects 
aiming at restoring lost or damaged assets of affected micro and small-scale enterprises. 
 
Part B
:
Restoration of Education Services
Carrying out a program to support the reconstruction and rehabilitation of 
education facilities through the provision of goods and technical advisory services, and 
the carrying out of works. 
 
Part C
:
Project Management
Carrying out a program to assist line ministries in Project management through 
the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement
All goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Financing shall be procured under the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 and the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004, as well as the 
provisions of the Operations Manual. 
 
Section II
.
Misprocurement
The goods, works and consultants’ services that have not been procured in 
accordance with this Schedule 3 and the Operations Manual shall be treated as 
misprocurement in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall vest MFT with the overall responsibility of the Project 
implementation and shall maintain, through MFT, arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the Operations 
Manual. 
 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
duly prepare, adopt and thereafter apply the Operations Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, in the implementation of the Project, which 
Operations Manual shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) operational procedures and rules for 
evaluation and appraisal of Project activities; (ii) Project institutional, implementation 
and monitoring arrangements; (iii) eligibility and evaluation criteria for Cash Grants and 
Sub-grants; (iv) procurement arrangements; and (v) financial management and 
disbursement arrangement; and 
 
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive any of the 
provisions of the Operations Manual, without the prior agreement of the Association. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the ESSAF in a manner designed to ensure that 
the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards; and (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an on-going basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, the implementation of the ESSAF and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the ESSAF, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on an annual basis commencing January 31, 2006, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  19
-
17
-
(c) 
review with the Association, by no later than three (3) months after the 
submission of the report referred to un paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and 
subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development Financing 
Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“8. 
 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General 
Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time. Development Financing Agreement includes these 
General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11 of  
Section 2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as 
paragraphs 16 through 18 accordingly: 
 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of 
the Grant is credited.” 
 
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.” 
Page  21
-
19
-
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either 
of the Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and  
Article IX. 
 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
the heading of Article III, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts   
 
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account 
and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower 
as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be 
credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development 
Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to be paid 
by it under the Development Financing Agreement in the 
currency specified in such agreement or in such other eligible 
Page  22
-
20
-
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay 
under the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower.” 
 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
 
(c) 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, any cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be 
applied pro rata to the several installments of the principal 
amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
 
9. 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “principal or interest or any other amount” in paragraph (b) 
are modified to read “any amount”. 
 
(b) 
The word “credit” in paragraph (b)(i) is replaced with the words “credit, 
grant or financing”. 
 
10. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under 
the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without deduction 
for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower.”
Page  23
-
21
-
