Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1397 
Project Name 
Maldives - Post Tsunami Emegency Relief and Reconstruction 
Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (35%);Housing construction (25%);General 
education sector (15%);Health (15%);General transportation 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P094193 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE MALDIVES 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 3, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Country Background.  
The Maldives is a chain of Indian Ocean islands spread over a distance of 900 
kilometers, and located between northern latitude 4 to slightly south of the equator. The land area, which 
covers about 26 geographic atolls, is grouped into 20 administrative atolls. The population of the 
Maldives is about 300,000. The country faces two main geographic challenges: (a) the absence of a 
significant land mass, which has resulted in a highly dispersed population, and (b) the low altitude of the 
existing islands. The country has 1,190 islands, of which 198 are inhabited. Of these islands, only 33 have 
a
land area greater than one square kilometer. One third of the inhabited islands have a population of less 
than 500 and 70% of the inhabited islands have a population of less than 1,000. This extremely low 
population density makes the Maldives unique, even among small island archipelagic states. It also raises 
the cost of delivering social services and of public administration, as there is hardly any scope to generate 
economies of scale. The altitude of most of the islands in the Maldives is very low, just above sea level. 
As a result, rising sea levels cause many islands to disappear and new ones to appear. This has rendered 
some inhabited islands ecologically vulnerable, while other islands have become too densely populated to 
sustain 
their communities. The greater Malé area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter of 
the population, is of specific concern, with increasing strain on social and public services caused by 
continuing in-migration from other parts of the archipelago.  
 
Context.  
The tsunami traveled at over 700 kilometers per hour and reached Maldives at 9:20 AM on 26 
December 2004. From around 9:15 am, tidal waves generated by the tsunami struck the islands. Tidal 
waves ranging from 4 to 14 feet were reported in all parts of the country. More than 1300 people suffered 
injuries; 83 people are confirmed dead and another 25 are missing and feared dead. Unlike other countries 
affected by the tsunami, Maldives experienced a disaster of national proportion. Thirty nine islands were 
significantly damaged and nearly a third of the Maldives’ 300,000 people were severely affected. 
Fourteen islands were completely destroyed and had to be evacuated. Nearly 12,000 people have been 
displaced from their islands, and another 8,500 people are temporarily relocated to other places on their 
own island; thus 7% of the population of Maldives were displaced. The force of the waves caused 
Page  2
widespread devastation of shelter and infrastructure in the atolls. Flooding caused by the tsunami wiped 
out electricity on many islands, destroying also their communication links. Water supply was disrupted in 
about 15% of the islands and 25% had major damage to the essential infrastructure such as jetties and 
harbors that links these islands with Malé . Electricity supply in many affected islands has yet to be 
restored. The impact on an economy largely based on tourism, fisheries, and agriculture will be 
substantive. Livelihoods of thousands have been undermined and will continue to suffer. 
 
Ongoing effort. 
The Government responded within hours by creating a National Emergency Center which 
groups all government departments including decision makers under one roof and which also coordinates 
the relief efforts by donors and Non Government Organization (NGO).  The Government has been 
characterized by transparency and a strong desire to avoid overlap and waste of resources. 
 
Damage estimates. 
Immediately after the tsunami, the World Bank sent a team jointly with the Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) and the UN system to assess the damages. Total damages are estimated to be 
about US$470 million, close to 62% of GDP. About $298 million of this are direct damages to physical 
assets, representing about 8% of the replacement cost of the national capital stock. The rest are indirect 
damages (such as lost tourism income). The indirect damage estimates need to be treated with caution 
particularly when it comes to tourism and livelihood damages. The largest source of direct damages is the 
housing sector and the largest source of indirect damage is the tourism sector, stemming from a sharp 
drop in tourist arrivals. The cost of restoring the economy to pre-tsunami levels is estimated to be US$406 
million. Government revenues, which depend heavily on tourism, are expected to drop by $60 million, 
equivalent to about 25% of total revenues. The decline in revenues will impair the capacity of the 
government to finance the reconstruction program. 
 
Governments long term strategy and its linkage to the tsunami response
.
The principal impact of the 
tsunami on the Government’s development strategy will be to accelerate the process of population 
concentration. The tsunami lent new urgency to the policy of population concentration, which will go a 
long way to reduce diseconomies of scale in service provision and will provide protection against sea-
level rise. Another impact of the tsunami has been a rethinking of environmental measures needed to 
defend focus islands—a new plan for creation of safe focus islands has been proposed. The proposed safe 
island design would involve elevated zones, high buildings, special drainage zones, and sloping 
revetments for environmental protection. The Government’s population consolidation policy rules out 
forced resettlement. The Government has re-stated its policy against forced resettlement in a recent 
communication to donors. 
 
Regional development strategies. 
The government has developed a two pronged strategy to distribute the 
benefits of economic growth to all parts of the country. The first element of the strategy is to develop two 
regional centers, one in Addu Atoll in the far south and the second in Haa Dhalu Atoll in the far north. 
These centers are designed to have airports, good ports and other social and infrastructure facilities. The 
regional centers are to be complemented by safe islands on different atolls to act as atoll service hubs and 
growth centers. The government is also seeking to distribute the benefits of tourism to all atolls by 
allowing new resorts to be opened in the atolls which currently lack resorts. The opening of the new 
international airport and international port in Addu Atoll will bring tourism and other economic 
opportunities within reach of the more isolated southern atolls. The government expects these 
developments to reduce regional differentials and promote growth and employment opportunities outside 
of Male. 
Page  3
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project objectives are to support the efforts of the Government of the Maldives to carry out a program 
of rehabilitation and reconstruction related to the damages caused by the tsunami of 26 December 2004. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This operation will be implemented over a period of three years, with much of the work expected to be 
completed during the first year. IDA support will be routed through the tsunami Relief and Rehabilitation 
Fund (TRRF) established under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury with the purpose to 
assure transparency in the use of funds. The operation will have the following components: 
Component 1: Restoration of livelihoods 
consists of (a) safety net cash transfers to the affected for their 
subsistence needs, and (b) a program to restore lost or damaged assets of affected enterprises.  
 
·
Sub-Component a: Safety net cash grants to households affected by the tsunami 
(US$5.6 million 
from the IDA grant). The Government has begun providing one-time cash grants to families seriously 
affected by the tsunami. Under this program, the Government has started distributing Rf.1,500 
(US$117) per capita to families whose houses were completely destroyed; Rf.1,000 per capita to 
families whose houses were partially damaged; and Rf.500 per capita to families whose houses are 
intact but household items swept away. This amount is intended to help affected families cover 
immediate expenses on food and household essentials. The Government is also preparing a follow-up 
safety net program targeting the poorest and most vulnerable among the affected population; this new 
program would provide a small monthly cash payment for a limited period of 10 months to poor and 
heavily affected families. The purpose of limiting the period and narrowly defining the target groups 
is to avoid developing a dependency syndrome.  
 
·
Sub-Component b: Restoration of Livelihoods Program (RLP) 
(US$3.0 million).
 
The government 
has decided on a policy of urgent support for livelihood restoration, the Restoration of Livelihoods 
Program. This program would provide sub-grants for restoration of assets (e.g. fishing vessels, fishing 
gear, fish processing equipment, agricultural tools, and other). The RLP is targeted to micro and small 
scale enterprises in the affected islands who lost or suffered damages to their income generating 
assets. The support under this program will help these enterprises restart their businesses, and thereby 
kick start economic recovery and employment at the local level. The eligibility criteria for assistance 
under this program cover enterprises whose assets were damaged or lost from the tsunami, and which 
were not insured.  
 
Component 2: Increase school capacity on islands receiving the population displaced by the 
tsunami 
(US$5.0 million from the IDA Credit). The tsunami has made at least seven islands 
uninhabitable. The population displaced from these seven islands needs to be resettled immediately. The 
receiving islands will need additional schools and facilities to accommodate the increasing student 
population. Temporary classrooms erected to accommodate the students will need to be converted into 
permanent classrooms. Moreover, certain islands including Lamu Gan are expected to receive a 
substantial population increase and at least one entirely new school will be needed here. The proposed 
assistance will finance additional permanent classrooms and the new school. The component will be 
implemented by the line Ministry.  
 
Component 3: Technical skills for implementing the Post-tsunami reconstruction program 
($0.4 
million). The post-tsunami reconstruction program currently under planning will add considerably to the 
normal workload of all levels of government. Since this increase in work load is temporary, it does not 
Page  4
justify additional permanent staff. This component will temporarily increase the capacity of implementing 
Ministries to manage the additional workload by financing project management specialists.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
An Environmental and Social Screening and Safeguard Framework (ESSAF 
–
the “Framework”) has 
been prepared to undertake environment impact assessments (EIAs) for rehabilitation and reconstruction 
activities with the purpose to ensure that adverse environmental and social impacts are minimized, and 
appropriate mitigation measures are included in subproject designs. The Framework which has been 
developed to ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies as well as the Bank’s OP 8.50 on 
Emergency Recovery Assistance, is applicable to all subprojects funded under the project. Neither GoM, 
nor its implementing agencies shall undertake any reconstruction or recovery activities that could cause 
any environmental or social impacts in the absence of an environmental assessment conducted in 
accordance with the ESSAF that is satisfactory to IDA.  
 
Recognizing the emergency nature of the project, and the related need for providing immediate assistance, 
while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing potential environmental and social risks, the 
Framework is based on: (i) key policy principles for environmental and social risk management; (ii) tools 
to screen subprojects for environmental and social impacts and mitigate such impacts; (iii) procedures to 
ensure that these principles and tools are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity building 
and monitoring. The Framework assists the Government and its implementing agencies in screening 
subprojects for likely environmental and social impacts, identifying documentation and preparation 
requirements through the application of standardized guidelines and codes of practice. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
8.4 
IDA GRANT FOR NATURAL DISASTERS 
5.6 
 Total 
214 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Qaiser M. Khan 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2523 
Fax: (202) 522-2955 
Email: Qkhan@worldbank.org
 
