Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19482
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(CR. 2215-IN AND LOAN 3300-IN)
June 24, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =        Rupee (Rs)
AtAppraisal(1991): US$1.00    =     Rs 17.5
Completion Year (1998): US$1.00 -   Rs 42.5
(Intermediate years are given in Annex 3, Table 3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP/TN       Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu
Al           Artificial Insemination
DAH          Department of Animal Husbandry
DANIDA       Danish International Development Agency
DEAR         Department of Evaluation and Applied Research
DOA          Department of Agriculture
DOF          Department of Forestry
DRD          Department of Rural Development
DSC          Department of Seed Certification
FAO/CP       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GOI          Government of India
GOTN         Government of Tamil Nadu
IBRD         International Bank for Construction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IPM          Integrated Pest Management
JFM          Joint Forest Management
MTR          Mid-term Review
RMC          Rural Market Centers
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SPC          State Planning Commission
T&V          Training and Visit Extension System
TN           Tamil Nadu
TNAU         Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:    Ridwan Ali
Task Leader:      Hamdy Eisa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN and Ln. 3300-IN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ..........................................................i
Evaluation  Summary ..........................................................                                                            i
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .........................................................I
A. ASSESSMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                                   ........................................ 12
D.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................... 12
E. BANK PERFORMANCE..............................13
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCI:                                      I ..........................................................             13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMIF ..........................................................                                                    15
Ff.  FUTlURE  OPERATION   .........                      ................ ..              .................. .           ........... 15
1. KEY  LESSONS   l.ARNIFI) ............................................................ 15
PART  II: STATISTICALlTA I, ES...                               .         .         .......................................................... 17
Table  1:  Summary ol Assessmilents .......................................................... 17
Table 2:  Related  13ank  loans/credits ..........................................................                             19
Table 3:   Project 'Iimetable  .......................................................... 19
Table 4:  Loan/Credit l)isbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................... 20
Table 5:  Key  Indicators lor PlroJect Impleimeitation .......................................................... 21
Table 6:  Key Indicators lor Project Operation ..........................................................                       22
Table 7:  Studies Included  in Project ..........................................................                              23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................                      24
Table 8B: Project Financing              ..24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .29
ANNEXES
Annex I. Aide-Mme'tncire .30
Annex 2. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .                                                  43
Annex 3. Economic Re-evaluation .          .. . . 55
MAP: IBRD Map No. 22663



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Development Project - Tamil Nadu (ADP/TN) in India, for which Credit 2215-IN in the
amount of SDR 64.1 million (US$ 92.8 million equivalent) and an IBRD Loan 3300-IN in
the amount of US$ 20 million were approved by the World Bank on 3 December 1990 and
became effective on 31 July 1991. A Mid-term Review was undertaken in December 1994.
The credit and loan closed on December 31, 1998, following three months
extension for completion of civil works. The last disbursement took place on May 20, 1999,
at which time a balance of US$ 10.72 million of the loan remained undisbursed and was
cancel led.
The draft ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme (FAO/CP). The report is based on a review of the project files and supervision
reports, on discussions with World 13ank staff' and on the findings of an ICR mission that
visited 'T'amil Nadu from 20 February to 3 March 1999. The borrower contributed to
preparation of' the ICR by preparinig ample background data and evaluation studies, by
conitributilng views reflected in the missioni's Aide Mlmoire (Annex 1), and by producing its
owin ICR (Aninex 2).
Mr. Christian Miczaika, Mission Leader/Economist;  Ms. Nathalie Olsen, Economist;  and
Mr. Arjunamurthy Venkataramnan, Agriculturist, consultant.
i



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 22 15-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.         The Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu (ADP/TN). a seven year
project supported with an IDA credit of SDR 64.1 million (US$ 92.8 million equivalent) and
an IBRD loan of US$ 20 million, came to a close on December 31, 1998. 'I'his proicct was
based on a Perspective Plan of the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) that had identified
major constraints, opportunities and key investment areas for the development of agriculture
in the state. It was a pilot venture in the Bank's lending strategy in India by its departure
from a central/multi-state operation to a single-state project with a broad agricultural
development approach. It was believed that Tamil Nadu, one of the more progressive states
of India. would serve as a model for similar pro jects in other states.
2.         At project appraisal it was recoginized that the ADP/TN would be a complex
project involving a number of' participating agencies and its benefits would be long-term and
broad in nature. The Bank considered that 'I'amil Nadu, because of its track record in
hanldling Bank f'unded projects, woul.d impilleimet this project satisfactorily. It was a follow-
up to 10-1 5 years of' 13ank assistance f'o)r agricultulal development in Tamil Nadu, which had
focussed on the development of' surlace water irrigation inf'rastructure and agricultural
support services for cxtcnslioil. research. credit andi dairy development. The lessons learned
from impicilientling the earlier- 'I'amil Nadu  xteilsion Project (Cr. 1137-IN) were used in
project design.
Project Objectives
3.        'I'he objectives of' the AI)I'/'I'N were to: improve the capability of the GOTN to
analyze developmncit constraints and establish priorities, develop institutions for rendering
more cost ef'fective services to fariminers, and support selected priority state investment
programs in agricultural and ruLral dcvelopmeilt sectors. To achieve these objectives the
project soughit to strengthieni agriculturll planninilg at the state and district levels; introduce
policy chaniges and modilicatiois of structure and process in departments responsible for
agricultural extenisioni, watershed  development, seed  production  and quality  control,
livestock and lorestry developinentt and support construction of rural water supply and
roads.
ii



4.         The project objectives and approaches, clearly spelled out, were considered
important and relevant to the development of the state at the time. They were consistent with
the Bank's country assistance strategy. At Mid-term Review, in December 1994, the
objectives were found to remain relevant and were not modified or refined.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.        The progress of the project in the first two years was slow, largely due to
problems of procurement, but thereafter implementation made steady progress. GOTN and
GOI (February, 1993) proposed an emergency cyclone rehabilitation program, primarily for
rural roads, and Bank agreed (October, 1994). Similarly at Mid-term Review GOTN
proposed with Bank agreement to implement a set of additional activities consistent with the
project scope, using the available credit. The project was consistently rated "S" (satisfactory)
by the Bank supervision missions for both Development Objectives and Implementation
Progress. The loan/credit closing date was extended, by three months, for completion of civil
works only, from September 30, 1998, to December 31, 1998.
6.         Financial performance of the project was good. Final disbursement took place on
May 20 1999. The credit of SDR 64.1 million (US$ 92.8 million equivalent) was fully
disbursed. Of the of US$ 20 million IBRD l oan, US$ 9.28 million was disbursed, and US$
10.72 million remained undisbursed and was cancelled. Against total project costs estimated
at appraisal of Rs. 3,093 million, GOTN mobilized additional counterpart funds to capitalize
on favorable exchange rates, and total project cost at ICR was Rs. 4,193 million. Physical
objectives were largely met. Policy and other changes were introduced as required. The
covenants were complied with in fuill, with minor delays in some cases.
7.        T he agricultural planning componient succeeded to strengthen the planning
capabilities of the State Planning Commission (SPC) in agricultural policy formulation and
planning, and improve the planninig capabilities of the Department of Agriculture. The
project supported the upgrading ot'the existing Agricultural and Allied Service Division of
SPC to an Agricultural Policy and Planning Division. A Standing Committee was constituted
in the place of'the Working (iroup Oil Agricultural and Allied Services. The project provided
support for commissioning a number of' studies on agricultural development topics and
surveys to generate feedback on which to base programming. Agricultural extension
planning was decentralized and district administration was strengthened to promote location-
specific development programs.
8.        The agricultural cxtcensioin component assisted the agricultural extension service
to move to a system  which is Fiscally sustainable, and improve technical relevance by
becoming morc sCensitivC to farmers' dciiands. The project brought about improvements in
the efficiency and ef'fcctiveness of' the organization, and provided infrastructure to support
sustained services to f'armers. 'rhe impact of activities in the field is vivid. The extension
service has high credibility among the farming community. The professional competence of
the staff is good. I)espite an effective extension service and good response from the farmers,
the production and productivity trends of major crops show frequent seasonal swings.
Reasons for this, including reliability of the statistical data collection system and weather
iii



vagaries, particularly cyclones, should be reviewed and corrective measures initiated as a
matter of priority.
9.         The project's seed component supported  infrastructure  development for:
production of breeder seeds, production of foundation and certified seeds, and improvement
of seed quality control. The policy changes envisaged were correct pricing of seeds by DOA
by eliminating hidden subsidies, phasing out state subsidies on sale of seeds, and the
promotion of private seed trade. Implementation of the component was uniformly good
throughout the project, resulting in substantial gains in the production of quality seeds.
Policy changes were implemented during the early stages of the project and the participation
of the private sector in seed trade increased, although not to the full extent anticipated,
largely due to private sector reluctance to enter a large volume, low profit self-pollinated
seed sector. Efforts to further promote privatization of production and distribution of seeds
should be continued.
10.        The project supported a watershed component to promote sustainable and
replicable production systems for protection of rainfed areas under ecological stress. The
design of the component emphasized vegetative soil and moisture conservation technologies
and treatment of private, public and common lands. It also provided for strengthening of
project implementation capacity, technology development and training. The progress of the
component was slow in the early part of the project, and uneven throughout. Major causes
include: the predominance of small and fragmented landholdings, rapid turnover of project
staff, lack of co-ordination among involved agencies, a rigid target-oriented approach and
delayed annual fund release. Ultimately, 86,380 ha were treated against 104,000 ha planned.
Despite these drawbacks the component achieved tangible gains, which include direct
benefit to 171,000 small landholders, a reduction of surface run-off leading to improved
groundwater recharge, a rise in groundwater levels and an increase in the number of
irrigation wells, increased cropping intcnsity, an expansion of the area devoted to tree crops
such as coconuts and mangoes, highier productivity from annual crops, more employment for
labor, improved vegetative covcr (includinlg tbdder) on public and common lands, and
appreciation of Iland value in the proj.cct area.
11.        The livestock devclopmncit component strengthened the Department of Animal
Ilusbandry (D)AII) to cnrbile it to provide a more cost-effective service to farmers.
Specif'ically, it providcd support to strengthici  )AI I capacity to produce, procure and
distribute frozeil scmcn ncccdcd to (Icvclop and maintain a stabilized superior crossbred
population of about 50 pcrccit of' total cattle population. Supportive of breed improvement,
it assisted foragc production anid im)provcd veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological
services. 'I'hc pro'cct providc( internationial consultancy services on animal breeding,
nutrition and disease investigation. 'I'lihe  )A  implemented the project-designed activities
well; gains and impact of' prolject activities are impressive. The project provided an impetus
for fodder production, particularly freshi fodder grasses and legumes in a state largely
accustomed to feeding dairy animals with straw. Disease investigation and diagnostic
activities were strcamlined with adequate supportive facilities. The project thus endowed the
state with the capacity to provide appropriate support to upgrade the productivity of its
iv



livestock population and thereby improve the nutrition of its people and the rural economy,
particularly of the weaker sections of the society who are the main cattle owners.
12.        The overall performance of the forestry component was satisfactory, and two of
the three objectives set at appraisal were reached. The main objectives of the forestry
component were to: maintain environmental stability by restoring ecological balance through
the establishment of plantations, provide institutional support to the Department of Forestry
(DOF); and raise public awareness to reduce pressure on existing forests. The achievement
of project targets in physical and financial terms was more successful than the introduction
of local level participation in forest management.  While activities were completed as
planned, their impact on local communities is not clear. Economic benefits estimated at
appraisal have not yet been realized. This should not be seen as an inadequacy of the project
per se, as stated objectives are clearly on conservation and rehabilitation of degraded forest
areas. However, improved forest management should have allowed sustainable harvesting of
forest products, even in the early years of the project. The limited ability of DOF to involve
local communities in forest management, and the lack of protection of areas under
rehabilitation. are important causes.
13.        The rural roads component aimed at augmenting GOTN's efforts in the
upgrading and improvement of rural roads, focusing on areas and villages serving key rural
market centers (RMCs) in selected districts and complementing other project activities,
mainly rainfed development. During implementation the program was expanded to include
selected missing links/new roads, as well as rehabilitation and renovation of roads and
bridges damaged by floods and cyclones. The project financed construction of a total length
of 743 km of rural roads serving 21 RMCs, 86 km of missing roads/new links, as well as
rehabilitation/renovation of 18 bridges and 12 roads (32 km) that had been flood and cyclone
damaged. These additional activities were approved by Bank Management and appraised in
accordance with Bank rules on use of' savings. Cost estimates of rural roads rehabilitation
due to cyclone damage were Rs 6.8 millioni (October 21, 1994). The SAR target was 800 km
of road construction and rehabilitation. Quality of the works was reported during project
supervision as satistactory.
14.       '[lie rural water supply componenit comprised: the construction of 12,500 simple
rural water supply installationis with tube wells and hand pumps in 14 districts; strengthening
of the executi1ng agenicy, the l)cpartnmelt of Rural Development (DRD); and provision of
spare parts for hIiandpumps lor hlock level stores in the designated districts. Implementation
of this compolnenlt was highlly successlul. About 12,500 borewells were drilled, of which
12,084 borewells were successflil. I landpuLilps were installed in all of these borewells and
platforns were construicted aroulild 1 1.695 borewells. Water quality was tested for 12,079
borewells; 8.040 borewells were founld to yield potable water and the remaining 3,569
borewells had noni-potable water. P'eople were advised not to use these wells for drinking
water purposes. I land pump caretaker traininlg. as well as selected spare parts such as
washers and simple tools were provided to 12.084 women caretakers to take up basic pump
mainteinanice. Water supply impact was analyzed for 11,695 borewells. The DRD operations
were strengthieined arid spare parts stores were replenished for effective maintenance. This
v



component benefits some 3 million people, of whom 33 percent belong to scheduled caste
and scheduled tribes.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.       The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory as it achieved most of its
major objectives and is expected to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few
shortcomings. This project has served as a model and assisted the Bank in its efforts to
introduce ADP concepts in Rajasthan, Bihar, Assam and other states.
16.       Project implementation received high GOTN  priority.  Participating line
agencies were free to commit staff time to project actions, as required. Timely and sufficient
counterpart funding was never a problem. The borrower carried out SAR administrative
requirements for procurement, accounting and audit, and complied - with some delays - with
all credit covenants. Three factors stand out as significant for the satisfactory performance
of the project and include: a firm commitment on the part of GOTN; a competent project
monitoring cell that guided, coordinated and managed project activities; and flexibility in
project implementation adopted by both the GO TN and the Bank.
17.       Bank supervision of the project was regular and diligent. Support was mobilized
from external consultants as required. MTR was purposeful, indicating flexibility and
adaptability of the project to newly emerging requirements. Extension of the closing date by
three months allowed the borrower to complete some civil works which needed completion,
GOTN would have difficulty in providing finance for their completion after the original
closing date.
18.       GOTN has assured that the policy, structure and process changes introduced
under the project would be sustained and improved. It has also undertaken that the assets
created under the project would be properly maintained. Preliminary follow-up activities of
the government are in line with these assurances. These include: (a) providing budgetary
support for 1999/2000 for planning, extension, seed, forestry, and livestock development
components: (b) transferring common assets created under the project, such as watershed
conservation works, rural roads and water supply to the local elected bodies/beneficiaries for
maintenance; (c) based on specific project-supported studies, considering a large watershed
program to treat fallow lands and a project to develop five rainfed districts; and
(d) implementing a state wide forestry development program using concepts developed
under the project. To consolidate and increase the gains of the project, GOTN should focus
attention on: quality of broadbased extension, seed planning, promotion of private seed trade,
fodder development, adequacy of funds for local bodies for maintaining rural roads and
water supply, and structural improvements of DOA to reduce cost and improve effectiveness.
19.       The following general lessons can be leamed from the project.
(i) ADP and single state approach are good concepts for promoting
development through prudent policy reforms and supportive investments.
The project performed satisfactorily despite a complexity reminiscent of
vi



the Integrated Rural Development projects (IRDP) approach. The lesson is
that IRDP can work, if the government is determined, committed and
assures decentralization of execution.
(ii) Studies to prepare a perspective plan for development, reviews of public
expenditure, and mandate and manpower policies of the concerned
agencies were critical for designing meaningful policy interventions and
institutional development. These studies provided a sound base and
direction for designing project interventions and support and, therefore,
should always precede project formulation.
(iii) Implementation of the forest component illustrated the need for project
activities to be based on a sound assessment of the legal framework. The
legislation required to operationalize the institutional arrangements for the
sharing of costs and benefits of community forest management was absent.
As a result, the implementation of Joint Forest Management within the
project was not possible, despite important attitudinal shifts in favor of
community involvement in forestry activities in the DOF. If the necessary
legal framework is not in place, project activities should either promote
the development of this legislation, or refrain from activities which are not
realistic  given  the  policy  environment at the  time  of project
preparation/appraisal.
(iv)  Divulsion  of commercial trade  in  pesticides from  the  DOA  has
institutionalized the IPM approach on a solid footing by removing conflict
of interest between sale of pesticides and promotion of biological control.
(v)  Involvement of rural drinking water supply beneficiaries, particularly
women, in operation and maintenance as caretakers has ensured
sustainability of the component.
(vi)  Identification of monitoring indicators and undertaking baseline surveys is
crucial to obtaining meaningful interpretation of project implementation
progress or lack of it.
vii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. ASSESSMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.       The Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu (ADP/TN), a seven year
project supported with an IDA credit of SDR 64.1 million (US$ 92.8 million equivalent)
and an IBRD loan of US$ 20 million, came to a close on December 31, 1998. This
project was based on a Perspective Plan of the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) that
had identified major constraints, opportunities and key investment areas for the
development of agriculture in the state. It was a pilot venture in the Bank's lending
strategy in India by its departure from a central/multi-state operation to a single-state
project with a broad agricultural development approach. It was believed that Tamil Nadu,
one of the more progressive states of India, would serve as a model for similar projects in
other states.
2.        The objectives of the ADP/TN were to: (a) improve the capability of the
GOTN  to analyze developmnict constraints and establish priorities; (b) develop
institutiolls Ibor rendering more cost effective services to farmers; and (c) support selected
prioritv state investment programs in agricultural and rural development sectors. To
achieve these objectives the project sought to strengthen agricultural planning at the state
and district levels; introduce policy changes and modifications of structure and process in
departments responsible for agricultural extension, watershed development, seed
production and quality control, livestock and forestry development; and support
construction of rural water supply and roads.
3.       The project was a follow-up to 10-15 years of World Bank assistance for
agricultural development in Tamil Nadu, which had focussed on the development of
surface water irrigation infrastructure and agricultural support services for extension,
research, credit and dairy development. The project objectives and approaches, clearly
spelled out, were considered important and relevant to the development of the state at the
time. They were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy. At Mid-term
Review, in December 1994, the objectives were found to remain relevant and were not
modified or refined.
I



4.        At project appraisal it was recognized that the ADP/TN would be a complex
project involving a number of participating agencies and its benefits would be long-term
and broad in nature. The Bank considered that Tamil Nadu, because of its track record in
handling Bank funded projects, would implement this project satisfactorily. The lessons
learned from implementing the earlier Tamil Nadu Extension Project (Cr. 11 37-IN) were
used in project design. The state was confident of its capacity to handle the complexity of
the project, stood by its commitments as anticipated, provided adequate funding support,
and involved its Minister of Agriculture in guiding and coordinating project activities.
5.        The main project risks identified at appraisal arose from the need for timely
and adequate implementation of the broad basing of the extension service (broadening the
scope to cover crops, horticulture, tree farming, soil and water management and fodder
cultivation) and strengthening of the planning process. Other risks identified related to the
importance of changes of seed and semen pricing policies, phasing out of seed and
pesticide trading, timely implementation of the animal nutrition and forage development
program and the long-term adoption and sustainability of the watershed and forestry
treatments. These risks were adequately addressed through appropriate project design
including assistance from overseas consultants, policy studies, assurances at negotiation,
and dated covenants for policy, structure and process adjustments.
6.        The implementation completion mission considers that the objectives set
were laudable but broad in scope, although these could have been made sharper with
measurable performance indicators. However the project unit managed to generate
adequate information by project staff and engaging the Department of Evaluation and
Applied Research (DEAR) in monitoring and evaluation. Also, if the project design could
have focused on a smaller number of key investment areas, this would have reduced the
numiiber of project risks.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
7.        Tlhe progress of the project in the first two years was slow, largely due to
problems ot procurement, but thereafter implementation made steady progress. GOTN
and GOI (February, 1994) proposed a program for emergency cyclone rehabilitation,
primarily for rural roads, and Bank agreed (October, 1994 - details in para 61).
Similarly, at Mid-term Review in December 1994, GOTN proposed with Bank agreement
to implement a set of additional activities consistent with the project scope, using the
available credit. The project was consistently rated "S" (satisfactory) by the Bank
supervision missions for both Development Objectives and Implementation Progress. The
loan/credit closing date was extended, by three months, for completion of civil works
only, from September 30, 1998, to December 31, 1998. Credit use was 100 percent and
loan use was roughly 50 percent. Physical objectives were largely met. Policy and other
changes were introduced as required. The covenants were complied with in full, with
minor delays in some cases.
2



Financial Objectives
8.       Financial performance of the project was good. Final disbursement took place
on May 20, 1999. The credit of US$ 92.8 million was used in full; of the loan of US$ 20
million, US$ 9.28 million was disbursed, and US$ 10.72 million remained undisbursed
and was cancelled. Against total project costs estimated at appraisal of Rs. 3,093 million,
GOTN invested Rs. 4,193 million due to depreciation of the Rupee against the dollar.
Physical Objectives
9.       The implementation completion mission found that the project generally
achieved  its  physical objectives  in  full.  Details  by  component, including
recommendations for desirable future actions, are summarized below. Location of project
activities is shown on the maps in Annex 4 (IBRD Map No. 22663).
10.      Agricultural Planning. This component aimed at strengthening the planning
capabilities of the State Planning Commission (SPC) in agricultural policy formulation
and planning, and improving the planning capabilities of the Department of Agriculture
(DOA). To achieve its aim, the project supported the upgrading of the existing
Agricultural and Allied Service Division of SPC to an Agricultural Policy and Planning
Division. A Standing Committee (SC) was constituted in the place of the Working Group
on Agricultural and Allied Services. The project provided support for commissioning a
number of studies on specific agricultural development topics and surveys to generate
feedback on which to base programming. Similarly, the DEAR was provided with
facilities to conduct studies and evaluate programs. Agricultural extension planning was
decentralized and district administration was strengthened to promote location-specific
development programs. Districts were computerized for planning and monitoring
pUIlposes.
11.      The institutional reorganization and strengthening implemented under the
project helped to improve the planning capabilities. The SPC has played a key role in
formulating state agricultural policy, which was approved by the state legislature and is
reflected in the Ninth Five-Year Plan document. Special emphasis is given in the
document to decentralized planning, and the thrust of the ADP/TN is reflected in the plan
document. However, frequent chanige of personnel is a risk that may dilute effectiveness
of project gains.
12.      Agricultural Extension. The extension component assisted GOTN  to
improve the agricultural extension service, which had followed the Training and Visit
(T&V) extension system with little change until ADP was introduced. Specifically, the
aim of T&V reform was to: (a) move to a system which is fiscally sustainable; and (b)
improve technical relevance by becoming more sensitive to farmers' demands.
Implementation progress of the component was good throughout the project period. The
project brought about improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of the
3



organization, and provided infrastructure to support sustained services to farmers. The
impact of activities in the field is vivid. The extension service has high credibility among
the farming community. The professional competence of the staff is good.
13.       Accomplishments of the project include: (a) policy changes: phasing out of
trading in plant protection chemicals by DOA, restricting public sector trading in seeds to
meet requirements of GOI programs only. and eliminating state subsidies on seeds;
(b) organizational changes: merging the Department of Oilseeds with DOA,
strengthening field operations with 45 grass root units, upgrading Kudumianmalai
Institute as a management institute, positioning one Deputy Director in each district to
look after decentralized planning, as well as strengthening extension planning capability
at the state level; and (c) process changes: introduction of broad based extension,
generous use of adaptive research for screening technologies and demonstrations and
mass rallies for quick spreading of technologies. Advanced academic and management
training for staff, better mobility, computerized database and MIS, extension equipment
and better office accommodation were other gains under the project.
14.       For the future, further strengthening of broad-based extension is needed
through continuous field assessment and refinements. The Kudumianmalai Institute and
the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) could assist in refining the broad-based
approach and making it more effective. Further integration of the DANIDA-supported
program on development of women into extension work would strengthen its
implementation. On the lines of IPM introduced under the extension component,
integrated nutrient management could be launched using the database and soil atlas
prepared with ADP/TN support. Promoting a problem-oriented extension approach
through decentralized planning and group contact for disseminating technologies would
be rewarding. Restructuring the DOA and making it compact with reduced layers of
supervisory staff would be useful. GOTN should review the extension process in use and
reiline its strategy.
15.       Despite an effective extension service and good response from the farmers,
the production and productivity trends of major crops show frequent seasonal swings.
Reasons for this, including the statistical data collection system, should be reviewed and
corrective measures initiated as a matter of priority.
16.      Seed Component. The project supported infrastructure development for: (a)
production of breeder seeds at TNAU; (b) production of foundation and certified seeds on
DOA-owned seed farms; and (c) improvement of quality control in the Directorate of
Seed Certification (DSC). The policy changes envisaged were correct pricing of seeds by
DOA by eliminating hidden subsidies, phasing out state subsidies on sale of seeds, and
the promotion of private seed trade. A study on the privatization of the seed trade was
also supported.
17.      Implementation of the component was uniformly good throughout the project,
resulting in substantial gains in the production of quality seeds. Policy changes were
4



implemented during the early stages of the project and the participation of the private
sector in seed trade increased, although not to the full extent anticipated, largely due to
private sector reluctance to enter a large volume, low profit self-pollinated seed sector.
Efforts to further promote privatization of production and distribution of seeds should be
continued.
18.       With project assistance, TNAU increased the production of breeder seeds of
major crops and eliminated the gap between demand (from private and public sector
agencies and outside the state) and supply. TNAU also evolved techniques for production
of two-line hybrids of rice with ease of production and high yields, screened dryland
fodder grasses and legumes for further multiplication, and established a marker-aided
seed selection laboratory.
19.       DOA strengthened the farms under its control, increased the production of
foundation seeds from 2,469 MT in 1990/91 to 3,383 MT in 1997/98, and is fully
meeting the foundation seeds requirements of both private and public sectors. It phased
out all state subsidies on sale of seeds (however, GOI sponsored subsidies continue,
elimination of this would encourage privatization) and introduced a system for revising
annually the sale price of seeds by eliminating hidden subsidies. Further, it reduced its
volume in seed trading, and stopped multiplying varieties released more than ten years
ago. Consequently, seed quality handled by DOA has considerably improved. Also
private enterprise reluctant to handle multiplication of high volume and low profit
cereals, pulses and oilseeds, is increasingly engaged in seed multiplication for these
crops. DOA is also using the services of about 4,000 private seed growers in its seed
operations.
20.       DSC strengthened its laboratory facilities, increased its seed inspection units,
introduced contract growing tests, streamlined certification procedures, trained its staff,
improved its rapport with the private seed trade and considerably improved the
efftctiveness of the certification and seed inspection system. As a result of these
mcasures the total volume of certified seeds increased (21,341 MT in 1990/91, to 32,326
M'T' in 1997/98). and sales of poor quality seeds have fallen considerably (sub-standard
seed lots decreased from 18 percent in 1990/91 to 10 percent in 1997/98).
21.       About 70 private seed producers are now operating in the state and mainly
produce high value hybrid seeds (cotton, vegetables, and millets) on the holdings of a
large number of progressive farmers. Private seed growers receive technical support from
TNAU. DSC and DOA, in addition to breeder/foundation seeds. These linkages should be
further promoted to strengthen a growing private seed industry.
22.       Watershed Development. The project supported a watershed component to
promote sustainable and replicable production systems for protection of rainfed areas
under ecological stress. The design of the component emphasized vegetative soil and
moisture conservation technologies and treatment of private, public and common lands. It
also provided for strengthening of project implementation capacity, technology
5



development and training. Specifically, it provided support for treating two large
watersheds and introduction of watershed technology in 12 districts.
23.       The progress of the component was slow in the early part of the project, and
uneven throughout. Major causes include: the predominance of small and fragmented
landholdings, rapid turnover of project staff, lack of co-ordination among involved
agencies, a rigid target-oriented approach and delayed annual fund release.
Implementation was completed by the end of December 1998 and staff, until then
exclusively dedicated to look after the project-supported watersheds, were transferred to
other assignments where they can utilize their training on an expanded program.
Ultimately, 86,380 ha were treated against 104,000 ha planned.
24.       Despite these drawbacks the component achieved tangible gains, which
include direct benefit to 171,000 small landholders. Project monitoring and evaluation
shows a reduction of surface run-off leading to improved groundwater recharge, a rise in
groundwater levels and an increase in the number of irrigation wells, increased cropping
intensity (100 to 130 percent), an expansion of the area devoted to tree crops such as
coconuts and mangoes, higher productivity from annual crops, more employment for
labor, and improved vegetative cover (including fodder) on public and common lands.
The land value in the project area appreciated considerably from Rs. 8,000 per acre to Rs.
20,000 per acre. Evaluation studies reveal that farmers appreciate the in-situ moisture
conservation measures, alley tree cropping and mixed horticulture development.
25.       The project helped to obtain acceptance for vegetative soil conservation
measures in a state wedded to mechanical soil conservation measures. Due to the small
size of the holdings, Velivaria zizanoides, the vegetative barrier, was planted on field
borders and not on the contours; yet farmers were impressed with its effectiveness in
reducing soil and water loss. The project supported research unit identified a vigorous
self-genieratinig fodder grass, Cenchrus ciliaris, as an effective vegetative barrier in non-
arable land. The project provided training to a large number of farmers and staff in
natural resource conservationi and rainfed farming methods.
26.       Livestock Development. The project strengthened DAH to enable it to
provide a more cost-effective service to farmers. Specifically, it provided support to
strengthen DAII capacity to produce, procure and distribute frozen semen needed to
develop and maintain a stabilized superior crossbred population of about 50 percent of
total cattle population. Supportive of breed improvement, it assisted forage production
and improved veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological services. The project provided
international consultancy services on animal breeding, nutrition and disease investigation.
27.       The DAH implemented the project-designed activities well; gains and impact
of project activities are impressive. A network of Artificial Insemination (Al) centers
covers the entire state, supported by strategically located semen banks and livestock
stations which produce quality semen and liquid nitrogen with trained manpower. The
project provided an impetus for fodder production, particularly fresh fodder grasses and
6



legumes in a state largely accustomed to feeding dairy animals with straw. Disease
investigation and diagnostic activities were streamlined with adequate supportive
facilities. The project thus endowed the state with the capacity to provide appropriate
support to upgrade the productivity of its livestock population and thereby improve the
nutrition of its people and the rural economy, particularly of the weaker sections of the
society who are the main cattle owners.
28.       Project achievements of livestock improvement include: strengthening of four
livestock farms to produce about two million semen straws annually, procurement of
1,046 pedigree bulls, cows and cross-bred animals, establishment of twelve semen banks
and two liquid nitrogen plants, distribution of frozen semen and liquid nitrogen through
private contractors, introduction of frozen semen technology to cover the entire state
through 3,572 Al centers, phasing out the use of chilled liquid semen and 52 bull stations
maintained for this purpose, annual revision of Al charges to meet the entire cost
involved (in 1991/92 it was Rs. 5 per insemination, now it is Rs. 12 and repeat cases are
also charged), improving the efficiency of Al services (reduction of inseminations from
three to two and a half per conception) through study and training, and introduction of
embryo transfer technology.
29.       Due to the project, production of frozen semen straws in the state increased
froml 1.09 million in 1990/91 to two million in 1997/98. However 30 percent of straws
required to meet demand are obtained from outside sources. The total number of Als
through DAH increased from 2.2 million in 1991/92 to 2.7 million in 1997/98. During the
project period the cattle population decreased, but the milk yield rose considerably due to
upgrading of both white and black cattle (milk production 1991/92: 3,357,000 Tons,
1997/98: 4,060,000 Tons), making Tamil Nadu the third ranking state in milk production
in the country.
30.       Despite sustained efforts, the project goal of stabilizing the crossbred
population at 50 percent of total cattle population was not achieved. The present
attainment according to the DAH is 40 percent and the department is aiming at 70 percent
by 2010. Besides DAH. the Dairy Federation and some private dairy interests are also
involved in Al activities. A well-defined strategy to further increase the cross bred
population and simultaneously to reduce the total cattle population is critical for further
sustained growth in this sector. Promoting privatization of Al services would lead to
desirable gains.
31.       The disease investigation units and diagnostic centers are performing
reasonably well. Fodder development was attempted by the project through special
district units that promoted fodder cultivation through raising grasses, legumes and trees
in arable lands and legumes on common lands and roadsides. The DOA and DOF were
involved in the promotional efforts. All these efforts generated awareness about, and
interest in, green fodder among the farmers, but still there is a wide gap between needs
and production. With project completion GOTN closed down the special fodder units.
7



Altemative arrangements for promotion of fodder development are critical; it would be
highly relevant now to assign promotion to the Departments of Agriculture and Forestry.
32.       Forestry Development. The overall performance of the forestry component
was satisfactory, and two of the three objectives set at appraisal were reached. The main
objectives of the forestry component were to: (a) maintain environmental stability by
restoring ecological balance through the establishment of plantations; (b) provide
institutional support to the DOF; and (c) raise public awareness to reduce pressure on
existing forests. The achievement of project targets in physical and financial terms was
more successful than the introduction of local level participation in forest management.
While activities were completed as planned, their impact on local communities is not
clear.
33.       At appraisal, ten catchments containing the most degraded forests of Tamil
Nadu were selected for inclusion in the project. Of the 360,000 ha, ten percent was to be
replanted or put under community control, and 28,786 ha were specifically identified. At
credit/loan closing, 30,697 ha had been treated. This area includes production forest (48
percent), i.e. forest to be replanted and maintained under the control of DOF, eco-
restoration forest (27 percent), i.e. conservation areas, and interface forest (25 percent),
community-miianaged forests intended to meet household needs for forest products.
T raining programs under the aegis of institutional development were completed on social
and technical subjects.
34.       The quality of plantation establishment and soil and moisture conservation
works (in eco-restoration areas) is good. While it is difficult to quantify the benefits of
these works (gully plugging, contour ditches, vegetative barriers) in the absence of
baseline data, reports suggest that: (a) the density of forest growth improved; (b) the
groundwater level rose by up to two feet (allowing increased cropping intensity); and (c)
soil erosioni was reduced. Nurseries and seed technology stations established under the
project are well functioning.
35.       P'lantation establishment under the project was satisfactory. However, the
DEAR evaluationi suggests that the selection of species was limited to a few exotics rather
thani tocUsilng on the planting of indigenous species. It appears that due to the extremely
degraded nature of the land included in the project area, only a few hardy species are able
to survive in project areas. According to DOF, after some time, as natural regeneration
proceeds in the shade of these species, indigenous forests should reappear.
36.       The survival rate of seedlings in project areas is on average 55 percent, which
is considered to be quite low. In addition, growth of saplings as indicated in the DEAR
evaluation seems to be below average. It is argued that, as with the limited selection of
species, it is the extremely degraded nature of the land (the poor soil quality and the
absence of irrigation) which is the cause of the low survival and growth rates.
Compounding factors may be the location of nurseries relatively far from planting sites;
seedlings are damaged during transport.
8



37.       The project was successful in reaching stated objectives in terms of natural
resource conservation. The experience of Joint Forest Management (JFM), on the other
hand, met with mixed success.  Attitudinal changes in the DOF were significant.
Extensive training of staff (in participatory assessment and planning methods, sociology,
resource conservation) and experience from other states promoted changes in the way
DOF views forests and the people who live in/around them. The need for co-operation
and the sharing of costs and benefits of forest management is recognized. DOF has
adopted the Joint Forest Management (JFM) approach, and community participation is
increasing.
38.       The limited co-operation between DOF and local villagers in the early stages
of the project has been attributed to the absence of statutory legislation, which would
have allowed the effective implementation of JFM. This legislation was not passed until
late 1997. The result was continued illicit felling of trees, cutting of green leaf manure
and grazing of livestock due to the limited participation of local communities in the
planning process and management of interface forests. While Village Forest Committees
were established, they did not become operational. It is encouraging that JFM is being
implemented in earnest now that the necessary legislation is in place.
39.       With regard to shifting cultivation in degraded areas, it appears that the
project made some progress in halting shifting cultivation practices in some areas.
However, further progress depends on the resolution of disputes over land and
assignment of property rights over land to allow tribal people to produce sufficient food
for household consumption. The integrated approach taken to address shifting cultivation
practices (providing alternative income generation opportunities, rural water supply and
roads) was successful, and should be continued. The completion of an in-depth socio-
econiomic impact assessment would be useful for both the forestry and watershed project
componients.
40.       Economic benefits estimated at appraisal have not yet been realized. This
should not be seen as an inadequacy of the project per se, as stated objectives are clearly
on conservation and rehabilitation of degraded forest areas. However, improved forest
management should have allowed sustainable harvesting of forest products, even in the
early years of the project. The limited ability of DOF to involve local communities in
forest management, and the lack of protection of areas under rehabilitation, are important
causes.
41.       Rural Roads. This component aimed at augmenting GOTN's efforts in the
upgrading and improvement of rural roads, focusing on areas and villages serving key
rural market centers (RMCs) in selected districts. Also the component was intended to
cover districts complementing other project activities, mainly rainfed development.
During project implementation, at GOTN request and with Bank agreement, the program
was expanded to include selected missing links/new roads, as well as rehabilitation and
renovation of roads and bridges damaged by floods and cyclones.
9



42.       The project financed construction of a total length of 743 km of rural roads
serving 21 RMCs, 86 km of missing roads/new links, as well as rehabilitation/renovation
of 18 bridges and 12 roads (32 km) that had been flood and cyclone damaged. The SAR
target was 800 km of road construction and rehabilitation. Quality of the works was
reported during project supervision as satisfactory.
43.       Assurance was obtained at negotiations that roads would be satisfactorily
maintained. In June 1998, GOTN issued instructions that the completed roads be handed
over to the concerned Panchayat Union/Village Panchayat for future maintenance.
However, by this time, some roads were already showing signs of wear and tear, and
some of the one-year after-construction-maintenance clauses with construction
contractors had expired. The ICR mission was assured at the wrap-up meeting that the
Panchayat Unions/Village Panchayats have adequate financial resources to assure
satisfactory maintenance of rural roads.
44.       Rural Water Supply. The rural water supply component comprised: (a) the
construction of 12,500 simple rural water supply installations with tube wells and hand
pumps in 14 districts; (b) strengthening of the executing agency, the Department of Rural
Development (DRD); and (c) provision of spare parts for handpumps for block level
stores in the designated districts. Implementation of this component was highly
successful. About 12,500 borewells were drilled, of which 12,084 borewells were
successful. Handpumps were installed in all of these borewells and platforms were
constructed around 11,695 borewells. Water quality was tested for 12,079 borewells;
8,040 borewells were found to yield potable water and the remaining 3,569 borewells had
non-potable water. People were advised not to use these wells for drinking water
purposes. Hand pump caretaker training, as well as selected spare parts such as washers
and simple tools were provided to 12,084 caretakers (mostly women) to take up basic
pumllp maintenance. Water supply impact was analyzed for 11,695 borewells. Also under
the project the DRD operations were strengthened. The spare parts stores at the block
level in the 14 districts were replenished for effective maintenance. This component
benefits some 3 million people, of whom 33percent belong to scheduled caste and
scheduled tribes.  Women involvement in operation and maintenance activities was
crucial to continued sustainability of the component.
Other Project Objectives
45.       The project planners did not design any specific social, environmental and
private sector development objectives with supportive interventions. However, through
policy changes and thoughtful management certain desirable gains in these areas were
accomplished under the project.
46.       Social Objectives. The watershed activities provided additional direct
employment to the landless poor. Integration of the DANIDA-supported program on
development of women into the extension work gave the project a boost to its
10



implementation. As a result large numbers of groups of women received training in
agricultural technology and they are, by working in brigades, effectively promoting use of
new technologies including IPM. The livestock component mainly catered to small
farmers and landless poor and enabled them to increase their incomes substantially
through improved milk yields. The rural water supply facilities created under the project
benefit three million rural people; of these, 33percent belong to the deprived classes.
Finally, the rural roads and bridges constructed under the project, besides helping
marketing of agricultural produce, provide improved access to educational and public
health institutions to the rural people. Overall, therefore, it appears that the project
contributed significantly, particularly its agricultural extension/livestock components, to
the food security of the state and assisted the alleviation of rural poverty.
47.       Environmental Objectives. The  introduction  of IPM  through  the
strengthened extension services considerably reduced the use of plant protection
chemicals in the state. DOA phased out its trading of plant protection chemicals. The
government periodically bans the use of persistent and highly toxic chemicals. The use of
organic products for nutrient management is increasing. A pilot program to halt shifting
cultivation in the hills by tribal people: (a) issued property rights to tribals; (b) promoted
the introduction of tree and root crops; and (c) supported soil and moisture conservation
works. The watershed approach demonstrated cost effective measures to arrest soil and
water loss.
48.       Privatization Objective. The production of breeder and foundation seeds
was supported under the project to meet the requirements of the private trade. The seed
pricing policy of DOA was revised to eliminate all state subsidies and hidden costs in
pricing. As a result private trade is now making an entry into 'high volume, low profit'
cereal seed. About 70 private seed growers are operating in the state. In addition, DOA
uses the services of about 4,000 private farms through contract growing to multiply seeds
for its requirements. In the livestock sector, DAH uses the services of private agencies to
distribute semen and liquid nitrogen. GOTN is committed to move away from activities
that can be effectively handled by the private sector. The initiatives of the project are,
therei'ore. likely to be sustained and intensified in future.
Economic Rate of Return
49.       The economic re-evaluation in Annex 3 quantifies the benefits from the seed
production, livestock, and forestry components. The re-estimated ERR is 28 percent over
a 20 year period. The NPV (at 12 percent opportunity cost of capital) is Rs. 4,987
million. Total project costs are used in the analysis, i.e. including the costs for the
components for which it was not possible to quantify benefits (rural roads, watershed
management and agricultural planning). The difference in the ERR calculated in the SAR
(14.6 percent) and the ICR (28 percent) can be attributed to: (a) a greater than expected
difference in yields between certified and non-certified seeds for a larger number of crops
and a larger area planted with certified seed; and (b) a greater than expected increase in
milk production despite a smaller than expected shift from indigenous to cross-bred
11



cattle, i.e. yield increases occurred for all livestock. Details of the economic analysis are
found in Annex 3.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
50.      Apart from fluctuations in the US$/Rs. exchange rate, external environmental
changes did not influence the implementation of the project. GOTN responded adequately
to the favorable exchange rate variation and provided additional counterpart funds for
project implementation (36 percent higher than the SAR estimated cost of Rs. 3.092
billion).
51.      Three key factors under the control of the project and GOTN - traditional
values, frequent staff changes at critical positions, and procurement issues - initially
impeded the achievement of project objectives in a full and timely manner. Despite
government commitment the service departments were initially reluctant to move away
from the deeply in-grained concept of the free provision of services, to rendering a cost
effective enabling role with the participation of people and other agencies. In addition,
co-ordination among agencies to achieve common goals was difficult to accomplish
because of the traditional instinct in protecting their own turf for survival and growth.
These values in particular affected implementation of fodder development and integrated
development of watersheds.
52.      Procurement delays hampered implementation progress and prevented the
early achievement of benefits that could have accrued from project investments. Delays
affected the procurement of computers, overseas staff training, and project studies, all
aimed at institutional capacity building. Frequent change of staff at key positions,
necessitated by general personnel policies, particularly in the watershed component,
slowed down implementation.  The Bank Delhi office staff discussed reasons for
procurement delays with GOTN and GOI during supervision missions particularly during
the period from March - October 1994 prior to MTR and appraisal of the emergency
cyclone rehabilitation component. GOTN agreed to reduce evaluation delays and inform
the Bank of rejection of specifically identified bids. Other procurement issues under
discussion were transparency and competitive recommendations, including broad-
coverage advertising, eliminating prequalification, making bid packages readily available,
preparing signed bid evaluation reports, or authorization of awards by an official Contract
Award Committee. The Procurement Unit of the Bank's New Delhi Office paid special
effort to monitor procurement aspects of the project and implementation of Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
53.      GOTN has assured that the policy, structure and process changes introduced
under the project would be sustained and improved, although the mindset problems
alluded to above will have to be overcome. The government is committed to ensure that
12



the assets created under the project would be properly maintained. Preliminary follow-up
activities of the government are in line with these assurances.
54.       The government has provided budgetary support for 1999/2000 for planning,
extension, seed, forestry, and livestock development components. Staff employed under
the project exclusively to implement the watershed component, forest area treatment,
fodder development and the project implementation cell were deployed to other
programs. Common assets created under the project, like watershed conservation works,
rural roads and water supply, were transferred to the local elected bodies/beneficiaries for
maintenance. Special caretakers were trained to look after the maintenance of the hand
pumps.
55.       Based on a specific study GOTN is considering a large watershed program to
treat fallow lands. This would benefit from the lessons learned in the project watersheds.
A project to develop five rainfed districts using a project-sponsored study is also under
the consideration of the government. GOTN is implementing a state wide forestry
development program using the JFM concept.
56.       To consolidate and increase the gains of the project, GOTN should focus
attention on: quality of broadbased extension, seed planning, promotion of private seed
trade, fodder development, adequacy of funds for local bodies for maintaining rural roads
and water supply, and structural improvements of DOA to reduce cost and improve
effectiveness. Reasons for recent fluctuations of production and productivity of crops
should be reviewed and corrected early, as far as these are due to human-made causes.
GOTN is aware of these requirements and has assured early compliance.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
57.       Bank supervision of the project was regular and diligent. Support was
mobilized from  external consultants as required. MTR was purposeful, indicating
flexibility and adaptability of the project to newly emerging requirements. Extension of
the closing date by three months allowed the borrower to complete some civil works
which needed completion; it is likely they would have remained unfinished, as GOTN
would not have been able to provide finance for their completion after credit/loan closing.
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) has reviewed Bank supervision of this
project and rated it as highly satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
58.       Project implementation received high GOTN priority.  Participating line
agencies were free to commit staff time to project actions, as required. Timely and
sufficient counterpart funding was never a problem. The borrower carried out SAR
financial management requirements for procurement, accounting and audit, and complied
- with some delays - with all credit covenants. The final audit for project accounts and
SOEs for the years 1998-1999 is due by December 31, 1999. The borrower made
13



available evaluation reports on project execution, operation, costs and benefits. A
summary of these reports produced by the borrower is annexed unedited to the ICR. The
borrower assisted closely with ICR preparation.
59.      Three factors stand out as significant for the satisfactory performance of the
project and include: (a) a firm commitment on the part of GOTN; (b) a competent project
monitoring cell that guided, coordinated and managed project activities; and (c)
flexibility in project implementation adopted by both the GOTN and the Bank. The
governrment was eager to refine the T&V system of agricultural extension introduced
earlier with the assistance of the Bank, and to accelerate rural development. It provided
adequate and timely funding support to the project. The state Departments of Planning
and Finance, in addition to Secretary-Agriculture, closely monitored and assisted project
implementation. GOI policy changes relating to economic liberalization provided a
favorable environment for project implementation.
60.      A small project-monitoring cell (seven staff members costing about 0.25
percent of the total project cost) assisted the Secretary of Agriculture to co-ordinate and
guide the project activities and render accounts to the Bank. Unlike most other
departmental units, this project cell set up was unique in that its personnel remained
unchanged for about seven years. This continuity combined with competence assisted
project implementation to a great extent. It also provided ample quantitative monitoring
data, which the ICR mission used, although formal indicators had not been established at
project design stage.
61.      Due to appreciation of the US$/Rupee exchange rate, the GOTN provided
needed additional counterpart funds, and invested an amount 36 percent higher than
anticipated at appraisal to benefit from the favorable exchange rate, and the Bank credit
and loan. In this effort both the Bank and the Government adopted a flexible and prudent
approach by carefully screening and including additional activities within the description
and scope of the project.  In December 30, 1993, GOTN requested approval for
expenditures to finance selected cyclone rehabilitation works with savings expected under
the credit. GOI endorsed GOTN proposal and requested Bank approval (February 18,
1994). Bank Management (Regional Vice President) approved GOTN and GOI request
subject to Bank appraisal of proposed components which was undertaken. The VP
authorized disbursements under the credit up to US$ 10.0 million equivalent for the
emergency cyclone rehabilitation works. Following the VP's authorization, Bank staff
appraised the proposed components and recommended approval of rural roads
rehabilitation with a cost estimate of US$ 6.8 million under "upgrading and
improvement" of rural roads which was already included in the project description and
Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement. GOTN agreed in early October 1994
to delete irrigation proposals from the expansion of project scope. Bank management
(October 21, 1994) approved the rural roads rehabilitation program. During the Mid-
Term Review (December 1994), additional activities in line with project scope were
included e.g. hybrid rice development program, horticultural nurseries, providing
computer facilities to the Forestry Department and renovation of cattle farms to house
14



imported breeds. This flexible approach in project management enhanced the value and
impact of project interventions and investments.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.       The ICR mission assesses the project's outcome as satisfactory. The project
achieved most of its major objectives and is expected to achieve satisfactory development
results with only a few shortcomings. This project was the first agricultural development
project in India. It has served as a model and has assisted the Bank in its efforts to
introduce ADP concepts in Rajasthan, Bihar, Assam and other states. It also highlighted
the importance of synergy effect when investments are designed within a realistic policy
approach.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
63.       GOTN has asked for a follow-up project. Bank advised GOTN to channel its
request through the Ministry of Finance and its Department of Economic Affairs. Further
support to GOTN in areas of rainfed farming, horticulture development, livestock
development, as well as policy and structural refinements to extension systems would be
useful.
-. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
64.       The following general lessons can be learned from the project.
(i) ADP and single state approach are good concepts for promoting
development  through  prudent  policy  reforms  and  supportive
investments. The project performed satisfactorily despite a complexity
reminiscent of the IRD)I' approach. The lesson is that IRDP can work, if
the government is determincd, committed and assures decentralization
of execution.
(ii) Studies to preparc a pcrspective plani for development, reviews of public
expenditure, and manidatc and manpower policies of the concerned
agencies were critical for dcsigilinig meaninigful policy interventions and
institutional developmicnit. Thcsc studies provided a sound base and
direction for designling pro'cct intervelntions and support and, therefore,
should always prccede project formiulation.
(iii) Implementation of the lorest component illustrated the need for project
activities to be based on a sound assessment of the legal framework.
The legislation required to make operational the institutional
arrangements for the sharing of costs and benefits of community forest
management was absent. As a result, the implementation of Joint
Forest Managcment within the project was not possible, despite
15



important attitudinal shifts in favor of community involvement in
forestry activities in the Department of Forestry. If the necessary legal
framework is not in place, project activities should either promote the
development of this legislation, or refrain from activities which are not
realistic given the policy environment at the time of project
preparation/appraisal.
(iv) Divulsion of commercial trade in pesticides from the DOA has
institutionalized the IPM approach on a solid footing by removing conflict
of interest between, sale of pesticides and promotion of biological control.
(v)  Involvement of rural drinking water supply beneficiaries, particularly
women, in operation and maintenance as caretakers has ensured
sustainability of the component.
(vi) Identification of monitoring indicators and undertaking baseline surveys is
crucial to obtaining meaningful interpretation of project implementation
progress or lack of it.
16



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                                    F  I                         F  1
Sector policies                      F7O
Financial objectives                  [       
Institutional development             [       
Physical objectives                  F71
Poverty reduction                                 7  
Gender issues                                      2  
Other social objectives                            lii
Environmental objectives                            W                          L7I
Public sector management                I            I           L              z
Private sector development           LI            LI            L 
Other (specify)                      FL L                       L             LI
B. Project sustainability            L.ikclr         lely      Uncertain
(/)           (1/)         (1)
II ii.lhlv
C. Bankv perloniance              satisfilctzo  Sa@lisfictory   Deficient
(/)           (1)          (1)
Identification                                  7L             LI
Preparation assistance              L                          LI
Appraisal                           LI                         LI
Supervision                                     [I             LI
17



Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)           (1)         (1)
Preparation                                     [I E             ]
Implementation                     L            LI            L
Covenant compliance                  I          [3            L
Operation (if applicable)            I           m            L
Highly                           ~~~~~~~~Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
18           ( )             (               V
1 8



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose             Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Human Resources       To upgrade agricultural             1995         Satisfactory,
Development (Credit 2699-IN)       human resources in the                           ongoing
states including
agricultural and veterinary
universities.
2. Tamil Nadu Water Resources          Strengthen water                  1995           Unsatisfactory,
resources management                            ongoing
Consolidation Project (Cr. 2745-IN)
Following operations
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                June 1989
Preparation                                                               September 1989 and
March 1990
Appraisal                                                                 July 1990
Negotiations                                                              17 December 1990
Board presentation                                                        12 March 1991
Siglning                                                                  17 April 1991
Et'fectivenless                                                          31 July 1991
Midtenr review                                     D)ccniber 1994         30 December 1994
Project completion                                 3(0 September 1998     30 September 1998
Loan closing                                       30 Septemilber 1998    31 December 1998
19



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate            5.0   13.3   27.5   41.7   55.2   70.2   88.7  107.8  112.8
Actual                          0     6.8   11.8   23.1   40.3   56.5   74.3   85.4  100.3
Actual as % of estimate         0   51%    43%    55%    73%    80%    84%    80%    89%
Date of final disbursement  May 20, 1999
20



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation indicators
Estimated                         Actual
|. Planning Component.
Strengthened planning           Not specified                    recruited: head of dept,
capabilities of SPC through                                  agricultural economist, planning
increased staffing and                                      officer
training
Policy studies and evaluation   4 studies identified, others to be  12 macro studies and 16
studies completed           determined                       evaluation studies conducted
Support for M&E                  Recruit I administrator. I       Recruited: I director, 4 deputy
statistician, I agricultural    directors for units on statistics,
economist                       agricultural economics, sociology
and agriculture
11. Extension Component
Number of extension units        Not specified                    51 extension units
established under T&V
extension system
Status of GOTN seed and pesticide   To be phased out             GOTN trading in pesticides phased
trading activities                                           out on 01/04/95.
GOTN trading in seeds reduced
from 28,000 to 18,400 tons
State seed subsidies eliminated
GOTN production of breeder and    Not specitied                   Breeder seed production increased
foundation seed production                                  (in tons)
1991/92     1996/97
paddy    19,200      28,553
millet      132         392
pLlsCS    6,987        8,263
oilseeds 65,994       90,250
cottoll     140          411
f orage        -         142
vegetable      -         306
Quantity of privately produced   Not SpCcilied                   3,000 tons
certified seed
Number of people trained (to     240 peoplc to hc scnt iOr training    28() people sent including degree
improve quality of extension)                               education (B.Sc, M.Sc and PhD in
Agriculture)
111. Livestock Component
Coverage of Al program           'I'amil Nadu                    T'amil Nadu
21



Number of frozen semen straws    2.9 million straws               2 million straws
produced
Cost recovery for Al programr                                     100 percent cost recovery (at
charge of Rs. 12 per unit)
Number of cross bred cattle      50 percent                       53.11 percent (from 47.7 percent)
population
Cases of endemic disease each    n.a.                             Reduction from 213 cases in
year                                                         1991/92 to 137 in 1996/97
No incidence of rinderpest in
1996/97
Number of pedigree animals on    n.a.                             1,046 pedigree animals imported
GOTN livestock farms
Incremental milk production      1,000,000 tons per annum        572,000 tons milk per annum
IV. Watershed Management/
Forestry Component
Area of degraded catchments      28,786 hectares                 30,697 hectares rehabilitated in 10
rehabilitated                                                catchments
Area covered by bamboo planting    Not specified                 2,056 hectare planted with bamboo
program for tribals
Area where shifting cultivation  Not specified                   690 ha in Pachamalai
l  curbedI
795 ha in Kalrayan
V. Rural Roads Component
Kilometers of rural roads        800 km                          861 km of roads and seven
constructed
VI. rural Water Supply
Component
Number of bore-wells constructed    8,000 to 10,000 bore-wells    12,500 bore-wells
Number of people benefiting from    2.7 mnillion people           2.9 million people (1.9 of which
access to drinking water                                    from scheduled castes/scheduled
tribes)
Number of women caretakers       Not specified                    11,095 women trained out of
trained                                                      12,084 caretakers
Table 6: Key Indicators for lProject Operation
Not applicable to this project.
22



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                        at appraisalUredefined               Status               Impact of study
1. Livestock Policy         Review of livestock policy in the state in   completed    Private provision of veterinary
order to identify policy interventions required            services has expanded, albeit more
to promote privatization of veterinary                    rapidly in urban than in rural areas.
services.
2. Water Productivity in    Analysis of water use efficiency (productivity   completed    Used by State Planning Commission
Agriculture                 per unit of water) under various land use                  for planning purposes.
patterns.
3. Seed Pricing Policy      Seed pricing policy and its impact on private    completed    Removal of restrictions, private sector
sector seed industry. Intended to reduce                  trade in seed is increasing although at
impediments to privatization of seed trade.               a slow rate.
4. The Demand for           Analysis of the changing structure of demand   completed    Used by State Planning Commission
Agricultural Products in    for agricultural products. Study to improve                for planning purposes: too early to
Tamil Nadu.                 planning capacity.                                         assess impact.
5. The Supply of            Analysis of changing structure of supply of  completed    Used by State Planning Commission
Agricultural Products in    agricultural products and Tamil Nadu's                     for planning purposes; too early to
Tamil Nadu.                 comparative advantage in agriculture                       assess impact.
6. Public Expenditure       Review of public expenditure in agriculture  completed    Too early to assess impact.
Review.                     and allied sectors; conducted in order to
improve fund allocation and use.
7. Agriculture on Tnemple    Analysis of investment patterns and         completed    GOTN is currently considering
Owned Lands in Tamil        agricultural productivity on temple-owned                  transferring ownership to cultivators.
Nadu.                       lands.
8. Agricultural Subsidies    Review of subsidies in agriculture and allied  completed    Too early to assess impact.
in Tamil Nadu.              sectors to improve rcsource allocation.
9. Review of                Analysis of well irrigation to iilprove      completed    An action matrix is currently under
Groundwater Irrigation in    understanding of'energy use.                              review by GOTN.
Tamii Nadu.
10. Potential of the        Survey of potential to develop agro-         comipleted    Ulsed by State Planning Commission
Development of Agro-        processing activities and constrainits analulsis           fbr planining purposes; too early to
Processing in Tamil Nadu.   to improve planning capacity.                              assess impact.
I I. Marketing - Current    Review of policy framiiework, and legal ilnd  compilileled    Unde (i(l OTN review.
Policy and Constraints      regulatory impediments to trade in
agricultural inputs and outputs.
12. Analysis of the Low     Analysis of constraints to increased         coliliited    lJtinde (i)OTN review.
Productivity of Agriculture   agricultural production anid possible causcs of'
in Tamil Nadu.              low productivity on tenanit Farnis in lainil
Nadu
13. The Marketing of        Review of the marketing systcni of' paddy and   completed    A policy matrix is currently under
Paddy in Tamil Nadu.        the impact on finanicial returnis anid                     review by GO'IN.
production.
23



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total
costs       costs                    costs        costs
Component
Agricultural          1.5          0.7         2.2          3.07         -            3.07
Planning                                                                                 l
Agricultural         22.2          1.0        23.2         23.08         -          23.08
Extension
Seed                  3.9          0.2         4.1          4.82         -           4.82
Productionl
Watershed            16.7          0.9        17.6          7.42         -           7.42
Development
Livestock            18.2          1.2        19.4         13.56         0.08        13.65
Developm-ent
Forestry             15.7          0.7        16.4         14.88         -           14.88
Rural Roads          17.3          2.4        19.7         34.96         -          34.96
Rural  Water         16.9          1.0        17.9         14.63         -          14.63
Supply
Total Baseline      112.4          8.1       120.5        116.43         0.08       116.51
Costs
Contingencies        10.6          2.2        12.8          3.49         -           3.491
TOTAL              123.0         10.3       133.3        119.92         0.08      120.00
Table 81: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (I JS$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local costs   Foreign costs    Total   ILocal costs   Foreign costs   Total
Source
IBRD/IDA        102.5          10.3           112.8          99.35       2.65         102.0
GOTN             18.0           0.0            18.(          18.0         0            18.0
Beneficiaries     2.5           0.0             2.5          na          0              0
FLTOTAL       [  123.0           10.3          133.3          117.35       2.65        120
24



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR                      ICR
Economic Costs:            Rs. 2,474.358 million (in  Rs. 4,497.153 million (in 1998
1990 values)             values)
Rs. 4,949 million (in 1998
values)
Economic Benefits:
Seed     Component      -  10,000 MT paddy           75,000 MT paddy
incremental           crop  4,000 MT millet          743 MT pulses
production(per annum)                                 1238 MT oilseeds
Watershed      component- 28,000 MT per annum        not estimated
incremental   food    crop
production
Livestock   component   -  1,000,000  MT  milk  per 572,000 MT milk per annum
incremental milk production    annum
Forestry    component   -  140,000 fuelwood          47,000 M3 poles and timber
incremental forest production  61,000 M3 poles and timber 78,000 M3 fuelwood
(per annum)                   16,000 MT fruits       13,000 M3 fodder
3000 M3 fruits
Value of Economic Benefits at Rs. 1,585 million (in 1990
Full Development (per annum) values)                 Rs. 3,533 million (in 1998 values)
Rs. 3,170 million (in 1998
_____________________________ values)
ERR                        1 4.6%                   128%
25



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised
Covenant  Present   fulfilment    fulfilment            Description of
Agreement    Section         class      status       date          date              Covenant                   Comments
1. Credit      PA. SCH         5          C        09/30/91-         -       Change the status of         Complied with
C 2215    2.01(a)(b)01                                                    Agriculture Working
Group of SPC to
Standing Committee
PA. SCII        5          C        09/30/91                  Secure review/approval  Complied with
2.01 (a)(b)02                                                  of Bank for TORs for
studies under clause (a),
(b), (c) & (dl of part A2
& parts B5; C(3) &
El (f).
PA. SCII        5          C        07/31/92                  Complete and furnish        Complied wNith
2.0(1(a)(b)03                                                  studies under parts
A2(a), A2(b), (c)&(d).
iPA. SC 1      5          C        09/30/92                  Complete and fuumish study  Coomplied with
2.0 ((a)(b)04                                                  undcr Part B5
PA. SC 1       5          C        06/30(92                  Complete and f'umish study' Complied with
2. )1 (a)(b)()5                                                under l'art C3
P'A. SC!'       5          C'       12/31/91                  C'omiplete and f'umish study  Complied vith
2.01 (a)(b)06                                                  unider Plart 1. I (1)
PA. ('i1       5          C'       ()9,3(/91                D)%cvlop detailed training    Complied with
2.0)1 (a)(b)07                                                 plani and SL l's traininig
nieeds
P'A. SC'l 1     5          C'                                 ('alculate on anilual basis   Complied with
2. )1 (a)(b)t)X                                                thc production and
(a)                                                       distributioni c(osts of'sceds
PiA. SC!'       5          C        0(il/311/i) 3              /lininate all I.N. subsidies Complicd with
2.)1 (a)(b)0)8                                                 onl seeds
(b)
PA. SC'I 1      5           '       (103/3  iI                I linimate DI)oA's pesticide   C'omplied with
2.)1 (a)(h)08                                                   llildineg
(c)
'A. SCI 1       5          (                                  ( 'alculate pro(ductioil/   ('omplied with
2.)1 (a)(h)09                                                  distritibtion costs of,
(a)                                                        i\ istock sciiemen
lPA. SCI!      5                   0 )7/ i '/)               Recovcr fulls costs of      Complied with
2 () I (a)(b)09)9                                              semen
(b)
PA. SC'II       5          (C (irr\ out maiiitenance of   Complied with. Roads
2. )1(a)(b)1)0                                                 roads approved in the        transferred to unions for
projcCt                     maintenance
P'A. SCI 1      5                                             I ormnulate anlual plan for   Complied with
2.()1 (a)(b) I I                                               parts (G I and I ll by March
31 o l'each year
l'A. SC'l 1     9          (                                  Provi(le annual reports by   Complied with
2.0t1(a)(b)12                                                  Juic 31) of'each year
PA. SC! I       5          Ci Establish cost sharing as in  Complied with
2.01(a)(b)13                                                   Schedule 2 of
26



PAI I(a),(b),(c)
PA, SCH       5         C        12/31/92               Organize a baseline survey  Complied with
2.01 (a)(b)14
PA, SCH       9         C       09/30/94                Organize a mid-term       Complied with
2.01(a)(b)14                                             review
ii
PA. SCH       9         C                               Organize final evaluation 3  Complied with
2.01(a)(b)14                                              mths after closing
iii
PA, SCII      5         C       06/30)/9I               StafT DRD wvith adequate   Complied with
2.0)1(a)(b)15                                            staff
IPA 3.0 1(a)   I         C                               GOT(N shall maintain      Complied with
records/accounts to reflect
sound accounting practices
PA3.0 1 (b)l   I         C                               I la, c accounts audited each Complied with
tiscal Near
IPA3.0)1(b)ll   I        C                               Furnish certified copies of  C(ertificate for FY97/98
Audit not later than nine    due
months alter the end of
each ! ear
Status:  C      - Complied with
CD)    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON  - Compliance l.xpected in Reasonably Short lime
CIP    - Complied vith lartially
NYD)  - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
I . Accounts/aludit
2. Financial performancc/gnceratc re% ennuc from hcneficiarics
3. Flowx and utilization of Project lunds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of thc Project or ol its execuitinig agenic
6. I nv ironimiental covenants
7. l noluntarv resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. NMoinitoring, review and reporting
1 0. Implemiientationi
1I. Sectoral or cross-scctoral hudgctarN  or ollicr rcste\o icc illocdaton
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regiilator\ /IIImtullt iuui;l aU ,lon
13. Ofthcr
Table 1t: Comnpliance with Operational Manual Statements
No deviation rolioti Operational Mainial Statemeints noted.
27



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned *              Revised *                 Actual
project cycle                                                                                  l
Weeks        US$        Weeks       US$        Weeks          US$
Preparation to                                                            188.4 a/  179,700 b/
appraisal
Appraisal                                                                  57.9    125,800
Negotiations through                                                       10.9     22,800
Board approval
Supervision                                                               197      445,900
Completion                                        23.5 c/  81,300 c/       17.9     75,000
TOTAL                                                                   477.7    855,500
* planned and revised categories are noi included in FIorm 590 prior to 1996. It is therefore not possible to
aggregate staff weeks and costs at the aggregate level.
a/ staff weeks include FAO/CP inputs.
b/ staff costs do not include FAO/CP input.
c/ planned staff time and cost (not actual).
28



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                   Number                    Specialized       Implemen-   Developm
project cycle     Month/        of       Days in        staff skills       tation         ent                   Types of
l  Year   persons     field        represented *        status     objectives                problems
Identification     06/89                              na
Preparation        09/89          9                   EC(2). AG(2), LS.
FS(2). RE, TM
Preparation        04/90                              na
Appraisal          06/90                              na
Supervision        10/92**        4          na      EIR. RF. PS. FA            I            I        procurement, policy, administrative
Supervision        05/93          6          30       ER,   RE,   I'S.         2             i         procurenient, administrative policy
FA(2), R\VS
Supervision        09/93**        4          na       ER. RE, PS. FA           2             1            procurement, administrative
Supervision        10/93          6          30       ER.   RE .    'PS.       2             1            procurement, adminiistrative
FA(2). RWS
Supervision        03/94          7          60       ER, RE. PS. A(.          2             i            procurement, administrative
EC. FS. RWS
Supervision        08/94          5          na       ER. RE. PS. FA.          2 ,                        procurement, administrative
S(C
Supervision        11/94          7          na       ER. RR:. PS. AG.         S             S            procurement, administrative
IRR. FA. SO(
Midtern Review    01/95            1         NA       FR. FA                   S             S
Supcrvision        05/95          3           12      AG(, S. IRR              S             S           procurement, administrative.
training
Supervision        06/95**                                                     S             S           procurement, administrative,
training
Supervision        11/95          5          20       A(i(3). IRR, R:          S             S            procurement, administrative
Supervision        015/96         3           18      AG(2). RIE               S             S            procurement, administrative
Supervision        11/9(          4          na       RE., A(i(2). C           S             S            procurement, sustainability
Suipervisi on      12/96          2           S       AG. EC                   S             S            procurement, sustainability
SupCrvision1       6/'7                                                        S             S                  sustainabilitv
Suipcrvision       12/97          4          21       A(i(2), RE. IRR          S             S                  sustainability
Siipcrvision       5/98           3           II      AG(2). FA                S             S                  sustainability
o('nplIctioi    .1_/91 3                    35       AG. EC(2)                                                 procurement
acronyill kes
A(i  Agricuilliirulist/iigronioiniist
I(   lconomnist                                               IS - Livestock Expert
I R   l -tension inid Research Specialist                     PS - Procurement Specialist
I A  I inancial Anallyst                                     RE - Roads Engineer
IS  l orest Spccialist                                        RWS - Rural Water Supply Expert
IRR   Irrigationi Fxpert                                      SOC - Rural Sociologist
nia  data niot available
I Supervisioni reports not in project files. Any data presented for these entries are gathered from other supervision reports reviewing
past peridrmance.
29






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
ANNEX I
AIDE MEMOIRE
30






INDIA
Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu (Cr. 2215-IN/Ln. 3300-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX 1
Aide Memoire
L. Introduction
I.        A mission of the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme (FAO/CP) visited
Tamil Nadu from 20 February to 3 March 1999, to collect information for drafting of the
Implementation Completion Report on the above-mentioned project. The visit to Tamil Nadu
was preceded by a review of project files at the World Bank's New Delhi office. Contacts
were made with all concerned GOTN departments in Chennai, and ample implementation
completion documentation was received. The mission visited the Tiruvallur, Vellore,
Tiruvannamalai and Kanchipuram districts, discussing project progress and outcome with
district-level staff responsible for its implementation. Field visits allowed contacts with
extension teams and producers.
2.        This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's preliminary findings and
conclusions and served as a basis for discussion at the Wrap-up Meeting on 3 March 1999.
The meeting generally endorsed the Aide Memoire and comments received were
subsequently incorporated.
1I. Mission Background and Findings
General
3.        1h'lic amil Nadu Agricultural Development Project (TNADP) was a follow-up to
I 0- 1 5 years of World Bank assistance for agricultural development in Tamil Nadu which had
focussed on the development of surface water irrigation infrastructure and agricultural
support services of extension, research, credit and dairy development. Building on
experience gained in previous projects, it was intended to address key institutional
constraints in the areas of agricultural planning and extension, develop more cost-effective
services to farmers, and support selected priority state investment programs, broadly
identified in the state's intermediate plans. A major aim was to strengthen the planning
process mainly through enhancing the economic analytical capacity of agricultural planners
and decision makers and in so doing it was intended to provide for more cross sectoral
dialogue, and for a better understanding of the implications of public policy with respect to
market forces and the likely consequences of change.
31



4.        To achieve these objectives the seven year project comprised the following
components: agriculture planning, agricultural extension, seed production, watershed
development, livestock development, forestry development, upgrading of rural roads, and
provisions for rural water supply. The institutional and livestock and seed components were
to be implemented state-wide. The other components were to be focused on priority pilot
areas selected by the state for such developments.
5.        The project was prepared with assistance from FAO/CP and the Bank in 1989-
90, and was appraised by the Bank in mid-1990. Operations began in 1991. The progress of
the project in the first two years was slow, largely due to problems of procurement, but
thereafter implementation made steady progress. At Mid Term Review (MTR) the
government (GOTN) had proposed, and the Bank had agreed, to implement a set of
additional activities including hybrid rice development, horticulture nursery program,
providing computer facilities for the forestry department, and strengthening of cattle farms,
with the credit available. The project was consistently rated i S" (satisfactory) for both
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress. The loan/credit closing date was
extended, by three months, for completion of civil works only, from September 30, 1998 to
December 3 1, 1998..The credit was fully disbursed on February 18, 1999.
6.        Project implementation received the priority which the designers presumed. The
participating line agencies were in practice free to commit staff time to project actions, as
required. And the timely and sufficient appropriation of local counterpart funding was never
a problem. The borrower carried out SAR administrative requirements for procurement,
accounting and audit, and complied - with some delays - with all credit covenants. The final
audit is still pending. The borrower made available ample evaluation reports on the project's
execution and initial operation, cost and benefits. A summary of these reports, which the
borrower has produced, will be annexed unedited to the ICR. GOTN has agreed to establish
adequate arrangements to sustain and improve on the project gains after the project period.
The borrower assisted closely with ICR preparation.
7.        Bank supervision of the project was regular and diligent. Support was mobilized
from external consultants as required. Findings of the MTR were incorporated into revised
project design. indicating flexibility and adaptability of the project to newly emerging
requirements. Extension of the closing date by three months allowed the borrower to
complete some civil works which were halfway through; these would have been likely to
remain incomplete, as GOTN would not have been able to provide finance for their
completion after closing the project. Overall, this performance is considered by the mission
satisfactory.
8.        The mission found that the project had generally achieved its objectives in full.
Details by main components, including selected recommendations for certain desirable
future supportive actions, are summarized below.
Agriculture Planning
9.        This component aimed at strengthening the planning capabilities of the State
Planning Commission (SPC) in agricultural policy formulation and planning, and improving
32



the planning capabilities of the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The cost of the
component was estimated in the SAR at Rs. 12.64 million, and the actual fund use was Rs.
8.96 million. To achieve its aim, the project supported the upgrading of the existing
Agricultural and Allied Service Division of SPC as Agricultural Policy and Planning
Division. A Standing Committee (SC) in the place of the Working Group on Agricultural and
Allied Services was constituted. The project provided support for commissioning of a
number of studies on specific agricultural development topics and surveys to provide a feed
back to monitor programs. Similarly, the Department of Evaluation and Applied Research
has been provided with facilities to conduct studies and evaluate programs. Agricultural
extension planning has been decentralized and district administration has been strengthened
to promote location specific development programs. Districts have been computerized for
planning purposes. A large number of district staff received training within the country and
abroad.
10.       The institutional reorganization and strengthening effected under the project has
helped improve the planning capabilities. The SPC has played a key role in formulating state
agricultural policy, which has been approved by the state legislature and is reflected in the
Ninth Five Year Plan document. Special emphasis is given in the document on decentralized
planing, and the thrust of the TNADP is amply reflected in the plan document. However,
frequent change of personnel may interrupt further project operation and may affect
sustainability.
Agricultural Extension
I 1.      The extension component aimed at assisting the GOTN's efforts in improving
quality and cost effectiveness of its agricultural extension service, a service following the
T&V extension system for the past twenty years with little change. To achieve the aim, the
project supported certain changes in policy, organizational structure, and extension process.
It also provided support for staff training and infrastructure development including
computerization. The SAR proposed outlay for the component was Rs. 560.2 million. The
MTR revised it as Rs 782.4 million and the actual fund use was Rs 850.2 million.
12.        Inplementation progress of the component was uniformly good throughout the
project period. The impact of its activities in the field are vivid. The extension service has
high credibility among the farming community. The professional competence of the staff is
good. The project has brought about desirable changes in improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the organization and provided sound infrastructure facilities to support
sustained service to the farmers.
13.       Accomplishments of the project include: (a) policy changes: phasing out of
trading in plant protection chemicals by DOA, restricting trading in seeds to meet
requirements of GOI programs only, and elimination of state subsidies on seeds; (b)
organizational changes: merger of department of oilseeds with DOA, strengthening field
operations with 45 grass root units, upgrading Kudumianmalai center as a management
institute, positioning one Deputy Director in each district to look after decentralized
planning, and strengthening planning capability at the state level; and (c) process changes:
33



introduction of broad based extension, generous use of adaptive research for screening
technologies and demonstrations and mass rallies for quick spreading of technologies.
Advanced academic and management training for staff, better mobility, computerized data
base and MIS, extension equipment and better office accommodation are other gains of the
project. DOA is confident of sustaining the changes introduced by the project and improving
its performance.
14.          The project attempted to bring about cost effectiveness of the service through
structural and process changes. Merger of DOS with DOA has paid good dividends. It would
be worthwhile to review and bring about a merger of the Department of Horticulture with
DOA. Along with it, efforts must be directed on making the DOA a flat organization; there
are too many supervisory layers at present. A personnel policy study supported by the project
is under the review of the government for some time, and this must be finalized early. There
is still scope to make the extension system lean, flat, efficient and cost effective; this would
merit the continuous attention of GOTN.
15.          Broad based extension is in its initial phase, and it should be strengthened
further through continuous field assessment and refinements. Kudumianmalai institute and
Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) could be productively used to refine the broad
based approach and make it more effective. On the lines of IPM integrated nutrient
management could be launched using the data base and soil atlas prepared through TNADP
support. Promoting problem oriented extension approach through decentralized planning and
group contact for disseminating technologies would be rewarding. GOTN could review the
extension process in use and refine its strategy.
16.          With project assistance GOTN has constructed about 71 office buildings for
DOA. Of these four buildings (DOA, JD's office at Conjeevaram and ADA's offices at
Kamudhi and Manaparai) are in the final phase of completion. The state must provide funds
and have these buildings completed early. To maintain the assets created it would be
advisable to empower the DOA to look after the annual maintenance of these buildings and
pros ide adequate budget support for it.
1 7.         Despite an effective extension service and good response from the farmers
the productioni and productivity trends of major crops are not that encouraging. Reasons for
this must be carefuilly reviewed and corrective measures initiated early as a matter of
priority.
Seed Component
18.       The project provided support to GOTN's functions in the production of breeder
and foundation seeds and in seed quality enforcement, and promoted through policy changes
the privatization of the production and trading of certified seeds. The SAR proposed Rs. 95.6
million for this component. At MTR funding was revised as Rs. 128.1 million and the actual
fund use was Rs. 146.7 million.
34



19.       The project supported infrastructure development at TNAU for production of
breeder seeds, in the DOA owned seed farms for production of foundation and certified
seeds, and in the Directorate of Seed Certification (DSC) for improving quality control. The
policy changes envisaged were pricing of seeds by DOA by eliminating hidden subsidies,
and phasing out all state subsidies on sale of seeds. A study on the privatization of the seed
trade was also supported.
20.       The progress of implementation of the component was uniformly good
throughout the project and substantial gains have resulted in the production of quality seeds.
The policy changes were implemented in the early stages of the project; participation of
private sector in seed trade has increased but it is not that significant as anticipated. Efforts to
promote privatization of production and distribution of seeds merit to be reviewed and
stepped up.
21.       The TNAU with project assistance has stepped up production of foundation
seeds and has eliminated the gap between demand (by private and public sector agencies
within and outside the state) and supply of breeder seeds of major crops. It should correct the
imbalance in production among different crops, particularly pulses and oilseeds, improve its
annual planning for seed production and reduce wastage of precious seed material due to
faulty demand projections. Inclusion of the Director of Seed Certification in the planning
process would be rewarding.
22.        Using project assistance the TNAU has evolved techniques for production of
two-line hybrids of rice with ease of production and high yields, screened dryland fodder
grasses and legumes for further multiplication and established a marker aided seed selection
laboratory. TNAU has no funding or personnel problems to sustain the project promoted
activities and improve upon them.
23.       The DOA has strengthened the farms under its control and increased the
productioni of foundation seeds from 2,469 MT in 1990/91 to 3,383 MT in 1997/98 and is
fullvI meetinig the requirements of private seed producers and department. It has completely
phased out all state subsidies on sale of seeds (however, GOI sponsored subsidies continue)
and iltroduced a system for revising annually the sale price of seeds by eliminating hidden
subsidies. Further it has reduced its volume in seed trading, switched over to certified seeds
by considerably reducing procurement and distribution of truthfully labeled seeds, and
stopped multiplication of varieties more than ten years old. Consequently the seed quality
handled by the DOA has considerably improved. Also private enterprise, hitherto reluctant in
handling multiplication of high volume low profit cereals, pulses and oilseeds, is taking to
seed multiplication. The DOA is also using the services of about 4,000 private seed growers
in its seed operations.
24.       The DSC has strengthened its laboratory facilities, increased its seed inspection
units, introduced grow out tests, streamlined certification procedures, trained its staff,
improved its rapport with private seed trade and considerably improved effectiveness of
certification and seed inspection system. As result of these the total volume of certified seeds
has increased considerably (1990/91: 21,341 MT, 1997/98: 32,326 MT), and poor quality
35



seeds in the market has considerably come down (sub-standard seed lots from 18% in
1990/91 to 10% in 1997/98).
25.       About 70 private seed producers are now operating in the state and they mainly
produce high value hybrid seeds (cotton, vegetables, and millets) in the holdings of a large
number of progressive farmers. Private seed growers receive, besides breeder/foundation
seeds, technical support from TNAU, DSC and DOA. These linkages merit to be
strengthened for establishing a viable and vibrant private seed industry in the state.
Watershed Development
26.       The project supported a watershed component to promote sustainable and
replicable production systems for protection of rainfed areas under ecological stress. The
design of the component emphasized vegetative soil and moisture conservation technologies
and land treatment of private, public and common lands. It also provided for strengthening of
project implementation capacity, technology development and training. Specifically it
provided support for treating two large watersheds (gross area about 120,000 ha and treated
area 54,000 ha), and introduction of watershed technology in 12 districts covering about
36.000 ha.
27.        For arable lands the project recommended contour farming systems, in-situ
conservation of available precipitation, improved agronomic practices for annual crops and
improved land management systems like horticulture and silvipasture. For public and
common lands it suggested re-establishment of vegetative cover with a multi-tier species
suited to local needs. While recognizing the need for stabilizing the natural drainage lines the
pro ject restricted structural measures to 25% of the total watershed treatment costs. A project
team, located at the two watersheds and state headquarters, was responsible for
implementing the two large watersheds; the field staff of the Department of Agriculture
looked after the district watersheds.
28.       The progress of the component was slow to start with and was uneven during the
pro ject period. Consequently the SAR allocation of Rs. 473.2 million was revised as Rs.
294.3 million at MTR and the number of district watersheds was increased. Major causes
that handicapped implementation progress include: predominance of small (less than 0.5 ha)
and fragmented landholdings, rapid turnover of project staff, lack of co-ordination among
involved agencies, rigid target oriented approach and delayed annual sanctions for fund
release. Implementation was completed by the end of December 1998 and project staff were
disbanded. Ultimately 86,380 ha were treated against 104,000 ha planned at a cost of Rs.
259.8 million. Despite these drawbacks the component has registered tangible gains.
29.       Major gains from  land treatment include: direct benefit to 171,000 small
landholders, reduction of surface run-off leading to better groundwater recharge, rise in
ground water levels and increase in number of irrigation wells, increased cropping intensity
(100 to 130%), larger area devoted to tree crops like coconuts and mangoes, higher
productivity from annual crops, more employment for labor, and better vegetative cover,
including fodder, over public and common lands. The land value in the project area has
36



appreciated considerably from Rs. 8,000 per acre to Rs. 20,000 per acre. Evaluation studies
reveal that farmers appreciate the usefulness of the in-situ moisture conservation measures,
alley tree cropping and mixed horticulture development.
30.       The project has helped to obtain acceptance for vegetative soil conservation
measures in a state hitherto wedded to exclusive structural conservation measures. Due to
small size of the holdings 'Vetiver', the vegetative barrier, was planted on field borders and
not on the contour; yet farmers were impressed with its effectiveness in reducing soil and
water loss. The project supported research unit has identified 'Cenchrus Ciliaris', a vigorous
self generating fodder grass, as an effective vegetative barrier in non-arable land. The project
provided training to a large number of farmers and staff in natural resource conservation and
rainfed farming methods.
31.       The beneficiaries were  involved  in finalizing  treatment plans and  in
implementing designed activities. They shared on a varying scale investments on contour
vegetative barriers, alley cropping and mixed horticulture. Other activities were supported
fully by project funds. Attempts to involve NGOs to motivate farmers were not successful;
response from NGOs was stated as inadequate.
32.       The assets created by the project have been entrusted to different institutions for
maintenance: treated forest lands to DOF, and common water conservation assets and
rehabilitated drainage lines to local bodies. It is hoped that DOF would introduce the Joint
Forest Management (JFM) concept, involving people of the surrounding villages in
maintaining these assets.
33.       A study on the comparative performance of major watersheds and district
wvatersheds - with two distinct organizational imnodels - is yet to be completed. Completing
the study early would benefit the state in deciding on cost effective approaches for future
efforts onl the subject.
34.       'I'he state is implementing a massive program on integrated watershed with the
assistance of Government of India. The area under current fallow is on the increase in the
state. To reverse this trend and to put land into better use, a high level committee has been
established; based on its recommendations the state is about to launch a program for
wasteland development on  watershed approach. Both these programs would hopefully
benefit by the lessons learned from implementing the watershed component of TNADP.
Livestock Development
35.       The project strengthened the Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) to enable
it in providing more cost effective service to farmers. Specifically it provided support to
strengthen DAH capacity to produce, procure and distribute frozen semen needed to develop
and maintain a stabilized superior cross-bred population of about 50% of total cattle
population. Supportive of breed improvement it assisted forage production and in improving
veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological services. The project provided overseas
consultancy services on animal breeding, nutrition and disease investigation. The SAR had
37



proposed an outlay of Rs 466.3 million for the component. At MTR it was revised as Rs.
450.5 million and the actual use was Rs. 468.5 million.
36.        The DAH has implemented the project designed activities well; gains and
impact of project activities are impressive. A network of Artificial Insemination (Al) centers
covering the entire state, supported by semen banks located at strategic places and livestock
stations producing quality semen straw and liquid nitrogen (LN2) with trained manpower,
has been established. An impetus for fodder production, particularly green fodder grass and
legumes in a state largely accustomed to feed dairy animals with straw, has been provided by
the project. Disease investigation and diagnostic activities have been streamlined with
adequate supportive facilities.
37.        The project has thus endowed the state with the capacity to provide appropriate
support to upgrade the productivity of its livestock population and thereby improve the
nutrition of its people and the rural economy. particularly of that of the weaker sections of
the society who are largely the cattle owners. Efficiency and effectiveness of the assets and
systems created by the project would need sustained maintenance and continuous
improvement.
38.        Some of the achievements of the project on livestock improvement include:
strengthening of four livestock farms to produce about 1.9 million semen straws annually,
procurement of 1,046 pedigree bulls, cows and cross-bred animals, establishment of twelve
semen banks and two LN2 plants, distribution of frozen semen and LN2 through private
contractors, introduction of frozen semen technology to cover the entire state through 3,572
Al centers, phasing out use of chilled liquid semen and 52 bull stations maintained for this
purpose, revising of Al charges annually to meet the entire cost involved (in 1991/92 it was
Rs. 5 per insemination, now it is Rs. 12 and repeat cases are also charged), improving the
efficiency of Al services (reduction of inseminations from three to two and a half per
conception) through study and training, and introduction of embryo transfer technology.
39.        Consequent to project activities production of frozen semen straws in the state
has iicr-eased from  1.09 million in 1990/91 to two million in 1997/98. However 30% of
straw required to meet demand is obtained from outside sources. The total number of Al
done through DAH has increased from 2.2 million in 1991/92 to 2.7 million in 1997/98.
During the project period the cattle population has decreased, but the milk yield has gone up
considerably due to upgrading of both white and black cattle (milk production 1991/92:
3,357,000 Tons, 1997/98: 4,060,000 Tons), making Tamil Nadu the third ranking state in
milk production of the country.
40.        Despite sustained efforts the project goal of stabilizing cross bred population at
50% of total population remains a distant goal. The present attainment according to the DAH
is 40% and the department is aiming at 70% by 2010. Besides DAH the Dairy Federation and
some private dairy interests are involved in Al activities. A well defined strategy to increase
the cross bred population and simultaneously to reduce the total cattle population is critical
for further sustained growth in this sector.
38



41.        A separate cell that was monitoring and directing the Al activities from state
headquarters has since been closed down. There is at present a mismatch between semen
production capacity, semen produced and used. A large number of Al centers (about 30%)
are performing ineffectively; 628 positions of livestock inspectors are vacant. A breeding
policy is under the review of the government for some time. To sustain the quality and tempo
of work generated by the project it is critical that: (a) a separate cell is positioned at
headquarters to look after the entire livestock improvement program; (b) the breeding policy
of the state is finalized early; (c) a strategy for achieving higher coverage of cross bred
animals is formulated and implemented; (d) all Al centers are manned by trained staff; and
(e) adequate budget support (around Rs. 2 million) is provided on an annual basis for
procuring required frozen semen from outstations till internal production is stepped up.
42.        The disease investigation units and diagnostic centers are performing reasonably
well. Fodder development was attempted by the project through special district units that
promoted fodder cultivation through raising of grasses, legumes and trees in arable lands and
legumes on common lands and roadsides. The departments of agriculture and forests were
involved in the promotional efforts. All these efforts have generated awareness about and
interest on green fodder among the farmers, still there is a wide gap between needs and
production and even the fringe of the green fodder problem has not been touched so far.
With project closing GOTN has closed down the special fodder units. Alternative
arrangement for promotion of fodder development is critical. It would be highly relevant to
assign the promotional activity to the departments of agriculture and forestry.
Forestry Development
43.        The overall performance of the forestry component has been satisfactory, and
two of the three objectives set at appraisal have been reached. The main objectives of the
forestry component were to: (a) maintain environmental stability by restoring ecological
balance throughl the establishment of plantations; (b) provide institutional support to the
Departmenit of Forestry; and (c) raise public awareness to reduce pressure on existing forests.
The achievemiienlt of project targets in physical and financial terms has been more successful
thanl the introduction of local level participation in forest management. While activities
have beeni completed as planned, the impact of these activities is not clear. The initial
allocation for this component was Rs. 42.195 crores. At MTR the budget was increased to
Rs. 57.68 crores. At the time of loan closing, Rs. 53.92 had been utilized (93.5 percent of the
amount budgeted).
44.        At appraisal, ten catchments containing the most degraded forests of Tamil Nadu
were selected for inclusion in the project. Of the 360,000 hectares, ten percent was to be
treated, and 28, 786 hectares were specifically identified. At loan closing, 30,697 hectares
had been treated. This area includes production forest (48%), eco-restoration forest (27%)
and interface forest (25%). Training programs under the aegis of institutional development
has been completed on social and technical subjects.
45.        The quality of the plantation establishment and soil and moisture conservation
works (in eco-restoration areas) is good. While it is difficult to quantify the benefits of these
39



works (gully plugging, contour ditches, vegetative barriers) in the absence of baseline data,
reports indicate that: (a) the density of forest growth has improved; (b) the groundwater level
has risen by up to two feet (allowing increased cropping intensity); and (c) soil erosion has
been reduced. Nurseries and seed technology stations established under the project are well-
functioning.
46.        Implementation has been successful in reaching stated objectives in terms of
natural resource conservation. On the other hand, the production expected from interface
forests (fuelwood, fodder, green leaf manure) has not materialized. This is partly due to the
limited participation of local communities in the planning process and management of
interface forests during much of project implementation. While Village Forest Committees
were established, they have not been operational. A small number of forest management
plans have been formulated, but participation of villagers has not occurred. The limited co-
operation between DOF and local villagers has been attributed to the absence of statutory
legislation, which would have allowed the implementation of the cost and benefit sharing
arrangements of Joint Forest Management (JFM). This legislation was not passed until late
1997. The result has been continued illicit felling of trees, cutting of green leaf manure and
grazing of livestock. It is encouraging that JFM is now being implemented in earnest now
that the necessary legislation is in place.
47.        Plantations establishment under the project has been satisfactory. However, the
DEAR evaluation suggests that the selection of species has been limited to a few exotic
species rather than focusing on the planting of indigenous species. It appears that due to the
extremely degraded nature of the land included in the project, only a few pioneer species are
able to survive in project areas. According to DOF, after some time, as natural regeneration
proceeds in the shade of these pioneer species, indigenous forests should reappear.
48.        The survival rate of seedlings in project areas is on average 55 percent, which is
considered to be quite low. In addition, growth of saplings registered in the DEAR
evaluation seems to be below average. It is argued that, as with the limited selection of
species. it is the extremely degraded nature of the land (the poor soil quality and the absence
of irrigation) which is the cause of the low survival and growth rates. Compounding factors
may be the location of nurseries relatively far from planting sites; seedlings are damaged
during transport.
49.        Staff recruited under the project have been absorbed into the permanent
institutions of DOF. There is some concern over the lack of continuity in that staff involved
in the planning and implementation of project activities are removed, and the management
and maintenance of project assets are handed over to the regular divisions of DOF. On the
other hand, successful operation of assets is a priority for the institution and is guided by
forestry policy, not the actions of individuals. Secondly, there is concern over the lack of
sufficient funds for continued operation and maintenance of project assets. DOF has
informed the ICR mission that the budget is currently under discussion; it appears that there
is no mechanism to ensure the commitment of sufficient funds for the continued functioning
of project assets. Thirdly, the Tamil Nadu Afforestation Project is intended to build upon the
TNADP, and will ensure the continuity of current policies for Joint Forest Management.
40



50.       With regard to shifting cultivation in degraded areas, it appears that the project
has made some progress in halting shifting cultivation practices in some areas. However,
further progress depends on the resolution of disputes over land and assignment of property
rights over land to allow tribal people to produce sufficient food for household consumption.
The integrated approach taken to address shifting cultivation practices (providing alternative
income generation opportunities, rural water supply and roads) has been successful, and
should be continued. The completion of an in-depth socio-economic impact assessment
would be useful for both the forestry and watershed project components.
51.       Economic benefits estimated at appraisal have not yet been realized. This should
not be seen as an inadequacy of the project per se, as stated objectives are clearly on
conservation and rehabilitation of degraded forest areas. However, improved forest
management should allow sustainable harvesting of forest products, even in the early years
of the project. The limited ability of DOF to involve local communities in forest
management, and the lack of protection of areas under rehabilitation, are important causes.
Rural Roads
52.       This component aimed at augmenting GOTN's efforts in the upgrading and
improvement of rural roads focusing on areas and villages serving key rural market centers
(RMCs) in selected districts. Also the component was intended to cover districts
complementing other project activities mainly rainfed development. During project
implementation, at GOTN request and with Bank agreement, the program was expanded to
include selected missing links/new roads, and rehabilitation and renovation of floods and
cyclone damaged works.
53.       The project financed construction of a total length of 743 km of rural roads
serving 21 RMCs, 86 km of missing roads/new links, as well as rehabilitation/renovation of
18 bridges and 12 roads (32 km) that had been flood and cyclone damaged. The SAR target
was 800 km of road construction and rehabilitation. Quality of the works was reported during
project supervision as satisfactory. Investment was estimated at Rs. 5.45 million, the MTR
revision was Rs. 12.999 million, and total investment amounted to Rs. 12.689 million.
54.       Assurance was obtained at appraisal that roads would be satisfactorily
maintained. In June 1998, GOTN issued instructions that the completed roads be handed
over to the concerned Panchayat Union/Village Panchayat for future maintenance. By this
time, some roads were already showing signs of wear and tear, and some of the one year
after-construction-maintenance clauses with construction contractors had expired. The
GOTN assured that the Panchayat Unions/Village Panchayats have adequate financial
resources to assure satisfactory maintenance of rural roads.
Rural Water Supply
55.       The rural water supply component comprised: (a) the construction of 12,500
simple rural water supply installations with tube wells and hand pumps in 14 districts; (b)
41



strengthening of the executing agency, the Department of Rural Development (DRD); and
(c) provision of spare parts for handpumps for block level stores in the designated districts.
Implementation of this component was highly successful. About 12,500 borewells were
drilled, of which 12,084 borewells were successful. Handpumps were installed in 12,084
borewells and platforms were constructed around 11,695 borewells. Water quality was tested
for 12,079 borewells; 8,040 borewells were found to yield potable water and the remaining
3,569 borewells had non-potable water. People have been advised not to use these wells for
drinking water purposes. Hand pump caretaker training, as wells selected spare parts such as
washers and simple tools were provided to 12,084 caretakers to take up basic pump
maintenance. Water supply impact was analyzed for 11,695 borewells. This component
benefited some 3 million people and gave priority to the poorest groups, of whom 33 percent
belonged to scheduled caste and scheduled tribes. Also under the project the DRD operations
were strengthened. The spare parts stores at the block level in the 14 districts were
replenished for effective maintenance. Total component cost was estimated at Rs. 499.93
million and the expenditure stood at Rs. 465.5 million.
III. Follow-up Actions
56.       The mission will produce a draft ICR for submission to the World Bank by mid-
March, which plans to forward the draft document to GOTN for comments by mid-April.
Submission of the ICR to the World Bank's Board is set for end June 1999.
Chennai, 3 March 1999
42



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
ANNEX 2
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
43






INDIA
Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu (Cr. 2215-IN/Ln. 3300-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX 2
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
INTRODUCTION
In order to render cost effective support services in Agriculture and allied sectors
and to enhance the standard of living of rural poor, which were left mostly uncovered in the
previously implemented Tamil Nadu Extension project assisted by World Bank, this seven year
Agricultural Development Project was implemented in Tamil Nadu state during the period from
1990-91 to 1998-99. The project in its broad agricultural development approach has been the
first of its kind in India. This project with a total cost estinate of U.S. $ 133.3 million was
supported with an International Development Association credit (IDA) equivalent to U.S.$ 92.8
million and an IBRD loan of U.S.$ 20 million besides financing from Government of Tamil Nadu
and beneficiaries.
THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES ARE
I. to improve the capability of the Government of Tamil Nadu to analyze development
constraints and establish priorities;
2. to furthier develop the institutions for renderinig more cost-effective service to farmers; and
3. to support selected priority state investmenlt programs in agricultural and rural development
identified in the state agricultural perspective plan.
Thlese objectives will lead to
I. Increased agricultural productivity and incolime:
2. alleviation of rural poverty,
3. protection of rainifed areas uinder ecological stress, and
4. iiprovemilenit in rural roads anid availability of safe drinking water to rural population.
To achieve thcse objcctivcs, the seven-year project had been under taken with the following
components:-
(a) Agriculttiral Planiniilg
(b) Agricultural l.xtcrision
(c) Seed Production
(d) Integrated Watershicd De)vclopment
(e) Livestock Development
(f) Forestry Development
(g) Rural Road Infrastructure and
44



(h) Rural Water Supply
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
I AGRICULTURAL PLANNING
i) State Planning Commission
Institutional reorganization
With a view to improve the planning capability, two institutional changes had been
made at the State Planning Commission. They were:
(1) A Standing Committee for Agriculture was constituted by inducting experts from different
disciplines and representatives of farmers/agri-business; and
(2) The Agricultural and Allied Sector Division at SPC was upgraded as Agricultural Policy and
Planning Division (APPD).
Standing Committee for Agriculture:
T he Committee discussed a number of development issues and laid special emphasis
on
i) Sustainable development of agricultural production
ii) Fillip to privatization policy and strengtheninig private sector seed industry and encouraging
farmers to venture into agri-business and
iii) Techilology generation and speedy transler of techllology.
Agricultural Policy and Planning Division (APPD)
The APPD has helpcd thle SPC and the Standing Committee in convening meetings,
preparing and circulating agenda, issuc papcrs and base papers and minutes for the meetings,
preparing terms of referenice for comimlissionied Studies, Commissioning and review of progress
of studies entrusted, circulating tile study rcports. convenling workshop to review the studies
completed and preparing actionable policy matriccs emerging from the studies.
[lic Agricultural Plolicy anid Planning Division undertook 13 studies and developed
policy matrix for givinlg cffective policy chaniges.
The finanicial achievcmcint of Rs.66.88 lakhs was incurred against the SAR total
outlay of Rs. 1 88.21 lakhs (35.53%).
45



ii) Monitoring & Co-ordination Cell
This nucleus Cell played a vital role in the implementation of the project. The Cell
maintained good inter-departmental co-ordination for the successful implementation of the
project.  Further, it prepared agenda for the EPCC meeting based on the proposals of
implementing HODs and accorded sanction as per the decisions made by EPCC in respect of all
components of the project to be implemented every year. The project had good support from the
State Government and had effective funding arrangements. Also, the Cell effectively monitored
the project by getting progress reports regularly from departmental implementing agencies and
reported to the Government of India monthly and to World Bank biannually. The Cell had made
arrangements for the visit of World Bank Supervision Mission during the project implementation.
The Centralized filing of reimbursement claims and getting the Audit Certificate for
the project as a whole were some of the novel concepts introduced and implemented by the Cell.
A sum of Rs.74.93 lakhs was spent for the establishtnent of Monitorinig and coordinating cell in
the project period.
iii) Department of Evaluation & Applied Research
This Department had been entrusted with the task of conducting the base-line
surveys, mid-term evaluation studies, special studies and the Terminal Evaluation Studies in
respect of TNADP components.
*  The total allotment Rs.73.14 lakhs.
*  Expenditure Rs.70.21 lakhs.
*  Percentage 96
iv. Agricultural Planning (Director of Agriculture)
i) Establishment of Management I aforimiationi System.
State Headquarters and 27 districts were computerized and linked with E-mail and
Interilet facilities were made available at State lleadqLiarters.
ii) Formiationi of l'olicy, Planninig and Managemenit wing:
TIhe planniniig capabilities at State I leadquarters and District units were strengthened
by providing 30 Deputy Dircctors(l'l'M) in each district Collectorate and also by merging
plaiiiilng wing with monlitoring anid evaluation wing at the State headquarters which was renamed
as PPM winig.
iii) Techn.o-Economic Survcy:
Micro and Macro level data on basic resources, extent of utilization and constraints
thereof, is a pre-rcquisite for Agriculiltral planninig. A detailed resource inventory was made and
documented along witil printing of survey booklets. This is very helpful for decentralized
planninilg and also to evolvc stratcgics for solving sub-optimal usage of resources at micro level.
46



iv) Tahal Consultancy
Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd., Israel was entrusted with the work of evolving
suitable high value cropping system with all around development including irrigation, marketing,
processing, storage and technology transfer of high value crop products. A study on "Drawing an
Optimal plan for production of high value crops and Blue Print for production of value added
products in four districts of Dharmapuri, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar in
Tamil Nadu" had been taken up by the Consultancy and the final report has been submitted for
evolving suitable policy directions.
An expenditure of Rs.799.90 lakhs was incurred as against the provision of 984.80 lakhs.
Impacts of Agricultural Planning
*    SPC  has played  a key  role  in  formulating  Tamnil Nadu  Agricultural  Policy,
operationalization of Watershed development and Wasteland development.  It has
commissioned 13 policy studies including the one conducted by APPD and finalized policy
matrices.
*    The Planning Commission has analyzed 12 proposals for external funding prograin
prepared by DOA.
*    DOA has commissioned 4 studies, 24 contiluilig surveys, 38 special surveys and 8 quick
surveys to serve as a feed back information to monitor programs.
*    In preparing plan proposals the role of DDA (PPM) has been quite useful on watershed
development, agro-based industries, irrigation and soil conservation works for the districts
from the field level data indicatling the integrated approach adopted in engaging AED,
PWD, Hiorticulture Department. etc.
*    FuLids for the installation of II computers and accessories at Rs.29.55 lakhs were provided
to SPC.
*    27 districts have been computcrizcd and put hito use for planning purposes.
*    Iraining had hielped in thc Lip-gradationl of the skills of the grass root level staff and
broughit about significamt cIhn.llgcs In their perception of agriculture development at sub-
state levels.  Ihc skills imparted and the exposure gained appeared to be relevant in
plainiiiig and linplciiciltention of agriculture programs.
*    Ihc institutionial reorganization cilected in SPC has proceeded in the right direction in
improvinlg the planning capabilities.  The aspects like crop suitability, technological
transfcr, change in ilput application etc., were analyzed in the process of plan finalization.
*    The policy recommeindationis were adopted in formulating the IX Five Year Plan document.
*    The realization of bottomil-up planniiing at PPM of DOA was confirmed from the guidelines
issued and assistance provided to the districts towards preparing district agricultural plan.
47



*    The plan formulation exercise now carried out at DOA was not present during the mid-term
evaluation. There has been considerable improvement in planning and management
aspects as DOA.  With the development of MIS and the infrastructure created, the
department is equipped to carry out the expected economic analysis in agricultural
planning.
11. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION (DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE)
The institutional changes and achievements under Agricultural Extension component
are summarized below:
I.  Broad Basing of Extension
2.  Development of infrastructures.
* Establishment of 45 Field Units.
* Construction of 71 office buildings.
* UIpgradation of State Level Management Institute.
3.  Technology Transfer through Extension Demonstrations.
4.  Resource Inventory - Preparation of Soil Atlas.
5.  Studies on personnel policy and Training Needs;
6.  Phasing out Trading Activities.
7.  Two wheeler loan to field staff for easy mobility to the villages.
8.  Procurement of vehicles for easy mobility of the officers.
Under this component a sum of Rs.8502.578 laklhs was incurred against the cost table
provision of 7749.36 lakhs. The achievemiienit was more than 100%.
Impacts of Agricultural Extension
The visit made by AAOs showed an improvement both in crop season and off seasons.
The proportion of farmers receivilg advice on dry land farming technologies had gone up
from 68.7 percent to 84.3 percenlt, while the farmers receiving advice on crops like Paddy,
Groundilut and Cotton was 90 percent in the project period, indicating the positive impact
of the extension activities.
*    The participation rate in farmiers' group contact had increased from 26 percent to 49
percent, while thc participation rate in field demonstration showed an increase from 25
perccit to 34 perceint in the project period. The participation of women in group contacts
and intcractioni withi AAOs had shown a positive improvement over the project years.
*    'I'hc coniccpt of' lBroad Based Extensioni Services has been introduced in the State and cost
cffcctive scrvicc is provided to the farming community.
Ill. SEEI) PROI)UCTION
'I'lie seed productioni componlenit of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project
(TNADP) aimed at improvinig seed production facilities by supporting the functions of the state
governmeit in the production and trading of certified seeds through policy changes. The project
envisaged crcation of adequate infrastructural facilities in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
('I'NAUJ), seed farms and in state seed farms so as to increase the production of breeder and
foundation seeds and provision of new seed processing units in the state seed farms to enhance
48



the seed processing capacity and establishment of three seed testing laboratories with six quality
enforcement unit under Director of Seed Certification (DSC) to strengthen seed control.
Outlay and Expenditure under Seed Production Component (ADP)
(Rs.in lakhs)
S.No.        Implementing          Outlay          Expenditure       Financial
agency                                             performance%
1.      DOA                           274.34            272.04            99.20
2.      DSC                            683.77           606.46             88.70
3.      TNAU                           745.90           589.44             79.00
TOTAL                        1704.01           1467.94            86.10
Impacts of Seed Production
*  There was a substantial increase in the production capacity and the productioni of breeder
seeds in the state by the implementation of seed production componleint in TINAU.
*  The total production of foundation seeds showed a steady increase from 2469 tonnes in 1990-
91 to 3383 tonnes in 1997-98. The share of food grains in total production of fouLidation
seeds increased from 55 percent in 1990-91 to 77 percent in 1997-98. The share of paddy in
total foundation seeds produced had increased from 44.5 percent to 70.6 percent for the
corresponding period. Mixed trends were noticed in the production of millets and pulses.
The agency wise production of foundationi seeds indicated that the state sector continued to
be the dominant producer and the share of quasi-govermlienit and private sector is meagre.
-  As a result of vigorous enforcement of quality control measures by seed inspection units, the
percentage of sub-standard seed lots had come down  from 1 8 percent in 1990-91 to 10
percent in 1997-98.
-  The establishment of new seed testing laboratories with infrastructural facilities increased
the aniual capacity for analyzing seed samples from 30000 to 42000 in the project period.
*  Provision of seed testing facilities at vital places along with communication and conveyance
facilities sigilificanitly increased the seed production in the seed sector from 12.95 percent in
1990-91 to 16.40 percent in 1997-98.
*  Tlie share of paddy and oilseeds to total certified seed production  showed an increasing
trend. Cotton, pulses and vegetables exhibited a constant share to the total certified seed
productioni in the project pcriod.
IV.         INTEGRATED   WATERSHED   DEVELOPMENT   (DIRECTOR   OF
AGRICULTUFRE)
Watershed Managemilenit is rational utilization of land and water for optimum and
sustained productionl with miiiilnimum  hazards to natural resources. Recognizing the need for
watershed developmeint for raitied area, the Government of Tamil Nadu implemented the
watershed Development Componienit from 1991-92 to 1997-98 in Palar and Vellar Watersheds.
This aimed at improvinig the productivity of all types of lands in a sustainable manner through
49



i) Promotion of in situ soil and moisture conservation;
ii) Optimal use of land to minimize risk in dry land;
iii) Proper management of non-arable land to conserve soil moisture and storage of run off
for ground water recharge and production of fodder, fiber, timber and fruits to help to
maintain ecological balance.
The following institutionial supports were created:
;1. Watershed Planning and Co-ordination Office
2. Steering Committee
3. Technical sub-committee
Achievements:
An expenditure of Rs.2598.94 lakhs was incurred as againist the provision of Rs. 2943.30
lakhls.
Impacts of Integrated Watershed Development
This development program carried out in selected areas is expected to have natural spread
and the spread was reported as cent percent in Vellar villages, while it was 84.2 percent in
Palar Villages. Monetary benefit was attributed as the reason for the spread by 67 percent
of farmers, while saving of rain water was reported by 29 percent of farmers. Nearly 15
percent of the farmers in Vellar regioni took to mixed horticulture in their fields.
V. LIVE STOCK DEVELOPMENT (DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY)
Livestock are an integral ipart of the farming system throughout Tamil Nadu. Limited
yield potenitial of' local breeds, diseases and lack of adequate fodder are major constraints for
livestock development. Tamil Nadu has achieved impressive results over the last two decades in
incremenltal milk productioll, largely through the introduction of improved breed. This however,
is approachilig a plateau and there is a need to sustain the milk production. With this end in view,
Livestock Development Component in Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project with
'World 13ank assistance lhas been implemilenited with the following objectives:
(I ) to strcigthlc I)AI I capacity to produce, procure and distribute frozen semen from both exotic
brceds and stabilized cross breeds needed to develop and maintain a stabilized superior cross-
brcd population ol about 50 percent of total cattle population;
(2) to promtiote forage production and develop extension packages in forage production, animal
husbandry and dairy management; and
(3) to improvc the veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological services.
'ITle total outlay   Rs.5242.26 lakhs
Acihievemilnt            Rs.4 159.89 lakhs
Percentage       79%
50



Impacts of Livestock Development
*    The total number of artificial insemination increased from 22.47 lakhs in 1991-92 (pre-
project period) to 26.82 lakhs in 1997-98, registering a percentage increase of 19.36
percent.
*    The total milk production was increased from 3.35 MT in 1991-92 to 4.06 MT in 1997-98,
resulting in a percentage increase of 21.19 percent due to the implementation of Livestock
Development Component.
VI. FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
The broad objectives of forestry component were to maintain environmental stability by
restoration of ecological balance, preservation of natural forests, soil and moisture conservation
and establishing public awareness to minimize pressure tipoIn forests. The project provided for
plantation establishment program and institutionial development in Tamil Nadu. The plantation
establishment program aimed at rehabilitating degraded reserve forests in 10 catchment areas
scattered in selected representative parts of the state with focus on Western Ghats, where major
degradation exists.
The catchment areas targeted were Manjalar, Suruliyar, Mangoraiyar, Kadavur, Vellar,
Maninadhi, Mukthanadhi, Gomuki, Sathanur and Ponniyar. Each treatment area was divided into
two major zones - Eco- restoration and production zones. Production zone was separated into
two areas like forest production and interface which was solely meant for domestic needs of the
community. The targeted catchmenit area were treated through afforestation, fire tracing and
protection, control of burning grass land, coppicilg, soil and water conservation measures like
contour 'V' ditches , vegetative barriers, gully plugging and civil works.
Achievement
The fiianicial outlay was 5768.00 lakhs and expenditure incurred under various activities
of the project was 5392.00 lakhs with the financial achievement of 93.50 percent. The physical
target was fixed at 28796 Ha. and the achievement had been 30697 Ha.
Impacts of Forestry
*    EInvironmental stability has been maintained
*    Soil and water conservation works increased the water table considerably in the wells of
catchmenit areas.
*    About 3794928 mandays and 2841425 womandays employment were generated.
*    [Ie transfer technology unit had imported training to 1459 persons which resulted in
quality improvement of the officials and staff.
51



VII. RURAL ROADS
The Rural roads component aimed at augmenting the efforts of Government of Tamil
Nadu in upgrading and improving the rural roads, focusing on areas and villages serving key
market centers in selected districts.
Under the project, 179 rural roads with a total length of 800 k.m. across 7 districts linking
21 RMCs were taken up for execution. The same was implemented by Highways and Rural
roads department initially, but subsequently changed to the control of Chief Engineer, National
Highways 45.
Out of the total target length of 800 k.m., 771 k.m. length by road (96 percent) had been
completed, with the financial outlay of Rs. 90.32 crores, which constituted 73 percent of the
total financial outlay for rural road component.
Impacts of Rural Roads
*    The quantity transacted through regulated markets had increased marginally from 2.32
percent ( to total .marketable surplus) in 1991-92 to 4.72 percent in 1996-97.
*    They were very much useful for the rural folk in availing emergency medical aid , for easy
access to schools, for getting public transport convenience and for conveyance of milk
from village collection centers.
VIII. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
The Rural Water Supply Component had been taken up to bring all habitations to meet
minimum standards by providing drinking water supply, giving priority to the poorest elements of
the society, especially scheduled caste and scheduled tribes. This project covered totally about
30.42 lakhs rural people in nine project districts ( now 14 after bifurcation of certain districts) of
whom 33 percent were belonged to scheduled caste and scheduled tribes. This component
complemented other project activities like Watershed Development and Rural Roads
Components. The project districts were Salem, Dharmapuri, Thiruvannamalai, Cuddalore,
Trichy, Pudukottai, Dindigul, Vellore and Kancheepuram.
The total project cost was Rs.4993.87 lakhs and the financial achievement was
Rs.4655.53 lakhs.
Impacts of Rural Water Supply
*    Rural Water Supply component minimized the wastage of time in getting potable water by
the people and helpful in attending to their primary farm activities effectively without
diversion.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Since 11 Head of the Departments are involved in the implementation of the Project, coordination
posed a problem.
52



Delay in Positioning of Staff in the initial period of the Project caused delay in the take-off.
Procurement delay was there in the initial two years of the Project.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
*    The assets created at the farmers' holdings are maintained by the concerned farmers
themselves.
*    Assets created at the villages have been handed over to PanchayatlLocal bodies for further
maintenance and future developments.
*    Assets created in the forest lands have been handed over to the Forest Department for
future maintenance and sustainable growth.
*    Infrastructure facilities created -  Future maintenance will be done by concerned
Departments with State funds.
BANK PERFORMANCE
The World Bank Supervision Mission visited the State twice in a year during the period of
Project implementation gave valuable suggestions and sorted out procurement issues.
As a whole the Bank's Performance is highly satisfactory.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The performance of the borrower and implementing agencies can be considered to be
highly satisfactory.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Director of Evaluation and Applied Research have conducted baseline survey for Pre-
project assessment and mid-term evaluation for suggesting corrective measures and terminal
evaluation to study the implementation impacts of the Project. As a whole the outcome of the
study is satisfactory in respect of all components.
FUTURE OPERATION
In continuation of the Phase I Project under ADP, proposal for Phase 11 under ADP has
been sent to Government of India for consideration and transmission to the World Bank.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*  As this is a complex project getting the coordination of the implementing Departments was a
difficult task.
*  Number of components is more to handle.
*  Delay in Positioning of staff resulted in delay in initial take-off of the project.
53



*  Procurement was delayed due to Policies such as revision of excise duty, price variation,
customs duty etc.
*  To avoid hardship in obtaining audit certificate Bank may appoint their own Auditors or the
borrower may be permitted to utilize the services of Auditors approved by the Bank.
*  Involvement of Multi-disciplinary functionaries has resulted in not achieving the objective
envisaged in watershed development.
54






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TAMIL NADU
(Cr. 2215-IN, Ln. 3300-IN)
ANNEX 3
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
55



I



INDIA
Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu (Cr. 2215-IN/Ln. 3300-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX 3
Economic Re-evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        This part of the Implementation Completion Report presents the economic re-
evaluation of the ADP/TN. It compares the methodology and the results of the economic
analysis of the SAR with that of the ICR mission. The main objective of the project was to
boost the overall productivity and sustainability of agriculture in Tamil Nadu, mainly
through strengthening sector policy and planning institutions, improving co-ordination
among government departments, and broad-basing and improvement of the quality of
extension services. Many project activities, as a result, are not easily quantified.
2.        The economic analysis in the SAR was based on benefits resulting from seed
production, watershed management, livestock, forestry and rural roads components. Rates of
return were not calculated for individual components, but for the project as a whole.
3.        In general, it was difficult for the ICR mission to quantify benefits attributable to
the project due to the absence of measurable monitoring indicators identified at project
design/implementation. Monitoring of project implementation focused on physical
achievements (construction of buildings, length of roads, procurement) and timeliness of
loan disbursement, rather than indicators of impact on the various sub-sectors and
communities affected. It was not possible to quantify the benefits of the watershed
management and rural roads components due to lack of adequate data.
B. Assumptions of the Economic Analyses
4.        The main assumptions of the SAR economic analysis were:
(a)  economic prices of all crop, livestock and forest products were derived
from prevailing and projected domestic market prices, and converted to
economic prices by applying a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8; the
exception is rice which was considered to be the only tradable crop, and
for which a border price was used;
(b)  the analysis was carried out in constant 1990 values;
(c)  the opportunity cost of capital was assumed to be 12 percent.
5.        The main assumptions underlying the present ICR economic analysis are:
56



(a)  economic prices of tradable crop (rice, cotton) and dairy products and
agricultural inputs (fertilizers) are derived from World Bank commodity
prices (details are provided in Table l);
(b)  economic prices of non-traded crops and forest products are derived from
1998 financial prices in Tamil Nadu by applying a Standard Conversion
Factor of 0.9 (Table 2);
(c)  the re-evaluation is carried out in 1998 constant values. Investment costs
and benefits are inflated to 1998 prices by applying the Wholesale Price
Index (WPI) for India, also applied locally, as presented in Table 3;
(d)  the opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 12 percent, as in the SAR;
C. Project Costs
6.         For the ICR, investment and recurrent costs actually incurred are adjusted to
1998 constant prices. Actual costs were multiplied by the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
for India of 0.9 as an estimate of the project's economic investment costs. The full costs of
each component for which a rate of return is calculated are included in the cost-benefit
calculation. Recurrent costs are included under project costs during the life of the project.
From 1999 onwards, annual operating costs are estimated at 2 percent of total investment
costs.
D. Economic Analysis
Seed Production Component
7.        SAR: The SAR analysis estimated the value of incremental production resulting
from the increased use of certified seeds. Net benefits were derived taking account of
incremental costs and benefits in the production of paddy, millet, pulses and groundnuts.
Production costs were expected to increase due to the higher costs of seed (policy changes
were to increase the price of seeds to cover their costs of production and distribution) and the
higher labor requirement. Yield increases from the use of certified seed were significant (see
the table below). Benefits were based on incremental production of 10,000 tons of paddy and
4,000 tons of millet. In reality, the area planted to certified seed of millet actually fell
dramatically due to the spread of privately produced hybrid seed.
8.        It is not clear what assumptions were made for: (a) incremental production of
foundation seed; (b) incremental yields as a result of using certified seed; and (c) the
incremental production resulting from the project. In fact, projections for the effects of the
seed production component were not presented in the SAR. Benefits were assumed to begin
in year two, but the basis of the phasing was not provided. A rate of return was not calculated
for the seed component, but only for the project as a whole. The FAO/CP Preparation Report
estimated the rate of return for the component to be 49 percent.
57



9.         ICR:  The ICR analysis is based on actual increases in the area planted to
certified seed, and observed yield differentials between certified and non-certified seed. The
table below presents the yield differentials between certified and non-certified seed:
Yields of Major Crops Using Certified and Non-Certified
SAR Crop                  ICR Crop Yields
Yields (kg/ha)
(kg/ha)
Crop                Increment    Non-Certified     Certified     Increment
Paddy                                    250          5,000          6,250          1,250
Millet                                   100
Black gram                               100           700            850            150
Groundnut                                200         1,250          1,500            250
Cotton                                                1,600         2,000            400
i Not quoted
10.        The area planted to certified seeds for the major crops increased by 33 percent
from 1990 to 1998.
Incremental Area Planted with Certified Seeds
(ha)
Crop              Area Planted with Certified Seeds
1990               1998
Paddy                           240,000             42,000
Millet                           87,000              39,000
Pulses                           81,000              96,000
Oilseeds                          3,000              18,000
Cotton                          132,000             145,000
Total                           543,000             720,000
11 Projected based on annual trend for 1990-1998 period.
11.        Government seed farms were responsible for roughly one-third of the increase in
certified seed production from 1990 to 1998. The analysis, therefore, assumes that one-third
of the increase in area planted with certified seed is attributable to the project. DOA
maintains that production on state farms would have remained constant without the project,
and it is therefore assumed that the without project situation scenario is equivalent to the
baseline situation (1990).
58



12.       Incremental returns per hectare are calculated for four major crops (paddy,
pulses, groundnut and cotton). Crop budgets are presented in Tables 4 (for certified seeds)
and 5 (non-certified seeds). Millet is not included in the ICR analysis; the area planted with
certified seed for millet actually decreased between 1990 and 1998 due to the spread of
privately produced hybrid seeds. The delay in benefits is due to the relatively low level of
expenditure in the early years of the project (5 percent in 1991, 2 percent in 1992, 10 percent
in 1993) and the time it takes for the production of certified seed to produce on-farm
benefits. The analysis, therefore, assumes that benefits begin in year five, and are phased in
proportion to expenditure under the component.
13.       The economic rate of return for the component is estimated at 54 percent over a
twenty year period. Table 6 summarizes the calculation of benefits. The high rate of return
reflects the achievement of significantly higher yields resulting from relatively low cost
improvements in seed quality and variety. The ICR analysis estimates benefits significantly
greater than those estimated in the SAR. This is due to the realization of greater yield
differentials between certified and non-certified seed and due to the greater that expected
increase in area planted with certified seed attributable to the project. Moreover, the project
covered a greater range of crops than included in the SAR analysis; incremental production
of cotton was included in the ICR analysis.
Livestock Component
14.       SAR:  Benefits from  the livestock component were based on incremental
production of milk resulting from the development of a superior crossbred cattle population.
Crossbred animals have a higher milk production capacity than indigenous breeds.
Moreover, the health and productivity of livestock were to be improved via forage
development activities (the incremental energy requirement was estimated at 10 percent) and
improved veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological services.
15.       The project goal of stabilizing the crossbred population at 50 percent of total
population was not achieved. The crossbred population is currently roughly 35 percent of
total population. Incremental production was projected to 2010 in the SAR. In order to assess
the accuracy of projections, it has been assumed that 50 percent of annual incremental milk
production reached by 2010 is achieved by 1998. This derived SAR estimate is compared
with actual achievements in 1998 in the table below:
59



Milk Component Benefits
SAR           ICR
Annual Milk Production
('000 tons)
Baseline (1990)                                              2,360        2,360
Without Project 2010
With Project 2010
Without Project 1998
With Project 1998
3,194
4,140
_____________________________________________________ 02,777               2,777
3,250       4,267
Annual incremental production by 1998 (000 tons)"              473        1,490
Economic value added (Rs/ton)                       Not calculated        2,035
Economic value of incremental production (Rs'000)                a    3,032,815
" As the SAR does not calculate incremental production in the year 1998, it is assumed that 50%
of the increment reached by 2010 is achieved by 1998.
2/ It is not clear from the SAR how the benefit stream was calculated.
16.        The SAR values economic benefits of livestock production at constant domestic
prices adjusted by the Standard Conversion Factor. By not taking into account production
(variable) costs of milk production, the SAR overestimates the value of the incremental milk
production. The rate of return was not calculated for the component. The SAR analysis
assumes that benefits begin in Year 3.
17.       ICR:  The ICR analysis (Tables 7 and 8) is also based on the value of
incremental milk production. Actual annual incremental milk production is valued at the
economic value of milk, net of variable costs of production. The net economic margin is
estimated in the livestock budget presented in Table 7. The economic value for milk is a
composite value based on the weighted (by share of production in total production)
production of milk from indigenous cows, crossbred cows and buffalo. Benefits begin in
Year 5. The delay in benefits reflects the low levels of expenditure in the early years of the
project (3 percent, 12 percent, 11 percent in 1993) and the time required for the artificial
insemination program to become operational and to result in a mature and higher yielding
livestock population.
18.        The rate of return is estimated at 67 percent for a twenty-year period. Despite the
delay of benefits until Year 5, the rate of return is very high. This is due to the large increase
in annual milk production during the disbursement period. While the SAR estimated an
increase of 473,000 tons of milk by 1998, actual annual production increased by almost 1.5
million tons. Details of the cost/benefit calculation are presented in Table 9. The large
increase in milk production is due to increased productivity rather than increased livestock
numbers. In fact, the table below shows that the population shrank by 8 percent between
1990 and 1998.
60



Changes in the Cattle and Buffalo Population, 1990 to 1998
Source    Indigenous   Crossbred     Total        Total       Total
Cows        Cows        Cattle      Buffalo    Livestock
Population         1990       7,760        1,940       9,700       3,440       13,140
('000 head)
1998 (ICR)       6.515        2,787       9,302        2,782      12,084
19.       Incremental benefits may be over-estimated if the projections of what would
have occurred without the project are underestimated; it is difficult to ascertain what
proportion of increased milk production is attributable to the project. If the estimate of
incremental milk production attributable to the project is conservatively reduced by 50
percent, the ERR remains high at 50 percent.
Forestry Component
20.        SAR: Economic benefits of investments made in degraded forest areas were
based on the value of incremental production of poles and timber, fuelwood, fodder, fruits
and other non-wood forest products. Production estimates were based on projected average
yields per hectare for the different types of forest (eco-restoration, production and interface).
Production was valued at local market prices, adjusted by the Standard Conversion Factor of
0.8. The SAR assumed that investment costs for the components would cover the full
variable costs of production. The area to be treated identified at appraisal was achieved, as
shown below.
Forest Component: Area of Forest Development
(ha)
Zone                                        SAR         Actual
Eco-restoration zone                       8,600         8,631
Production zone                           14,100        14,991
Interface zone                             6,900         7,956
Total to be treated                       29,600        31,578
21.        The SAR assumed that in the without project situation, production of forest
products on the land treated would be roughly double the amount produced under the project
in Years I to 10. Production would fall dramatically to 50 percent of this level in Years 11
to 20, and to 15 percent of this level in Years 21 to 30. This assumption is judged to be
realistic; restricting access to forest areas, despite their degraded nature, does have high costs
for local communities in the early years of the project. However, continued harvesting at
current levels would result in a rapid drop in forest productivity in later years.
22.        ICR: The ICR analysis (Tables 10 and 11) adopts the same assumptions; DOF
confirmed that the yields estimated at appraisal were correct to the present, and that there is
no need to revise projections made in the Years 12-30 following project start. Tables 12 (a)
- (d) present the levels and value of production achieved given the yield assumptions and the
61



actual area treated under the project. This analysis uses 1998 market prices adjusted by the
Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 to estimate the value of incremental production. The
economic analysis is done over a 30-year period so as to include forest harvest benefits. The
rate of return is estimated to be four percent, and the Net Present Value is Rs. -418.67
million (Table 13).
23.       The low rate of return is due to negative benefits for the first 10 years of the
project; access to areas to which local inhabitants had, in the past, free access (leading to
unsustainably high harvesting levels) was restricted to allow for replanting and natural
regeneration. The resulting higher yields in later years (after Year 11) only compensate
partially for the foregone benefits of harvesting on degraded forest land. Moreover, because
the environmental benefits are not quantified, the rate of return to investment in forests is
underestimated. Reports indicate that in many areas groundwater levels have risen by up to
two feet (allowing increased cropping intensity on arable land). The conservation of plant
and animal biodiversity in eco-restoration areas is also a further important benefit which has
not been quantified.
Watershed Management Component
24.       SAR: The SAR estimated benefits from the watershed management activities
based on incremental production of forest products (houseposts and implements, fuelwood,
grasses and legumes, and fruits and oilseeds) on the forest land treated and on incremental
crop production on the arable land treated (millet, pulses, tapioca and groundnut). Per
hectare economic benefits were based on crop budgets. Benefits were assumed to begin in
the first year of the project.
25.       ICR: The productive capacity of forest and arable land on which watershed
management activities was introduced under the project was not monitored. As a result,
there is little information on the impact of project activities under this component, in terms
of incremental production and incomes. Data provided by the DOA suggest that roughly
double the area identified for inclusion in the project was actually treated. However, in light
of the very little data on: (a) incremental production; and (b) the environmental impact (see
section on forestry component), benefits have not been quantified.
Rural Roads Component
26.       SAR: The main objective was to improve the village road network to improve
access to market centers, and to extension and other social services. It was also envisaged
that the project would reduce the cost of transportation of agricultural inputs and produce.
The target was to improve or reconstruct 800 km of roads. Benefits of road improvement and
construction were estimated based on user cost savings and consumer surplus.
27.       ICR: Physical targets for the roads component were met. While 90 percent of
roads were constructed in the proximity of rural market centers (RMCs), the evaluation
completed by DEAR indicates that there was no significant increase in agricultural produce
marketed in RMCs during the life of the project. The study also suggests that there was no
significant change in the range of agricultural produce marketed in RMCs; it was anticipated
62



at appraisal that improved roads would promote a shift from the production of high volume,
low value cereals to higher value-added crops like fruits and vegetables. This analysis does
not attempt to quantify the consumer surplus, due to the insufficiency of the data.
28.       A slight change in the mode of transport to faster moving vehicles is evident.
However, the data available on vehicle operating costs is very limited, and actual savings, if
any, have not been quantified. Nevertheless, it appears that the construction/improvement of
rural roads has had a great impact on rural communities in terms of access to education and
health care. Physical access to schools, and large time savings in getting there, have reduced
the implicit costs of getting children into schools. Numerous studies have shown that the
returns to increased enrolment/investment education are high. Construction of roads had
increased access to medical facilities and emergency medical treatment. Very few villages
have medical facilities, so the ability for doctors to visit villages and for patients to get to
hospitals is a significant improvement.
Results for the Project
29.       The economic cost and benefit flows for the entire project are presented in Table
14. The re-estimated ERR for the project is 28 percent (SAR 15 percent). The NPV at 12
percent opportunity cost of capital is Rs 4,987 million.
30.       The higher ERR can be largely attributed to:  (a) greater than anticipated
benefits from use of certified seed; and (b) a greater than expected increase in milk
production despite a smaller than expected shift from indigenous to crossbred cattle, i.e.
yield increases occurred for all livestock.
63



INDIA Tarnl Nad. Agricultoral Development Project - ICR
Annex 3 E-onomic Re-Evaluation
Table 1: Derivation of Panty Prices of Tradable Crops and Diary Products
PARITY i                                            IFl         DI]                  (E] Dl     CE]                    D[ l]                    plipi ID]
UNITS        WHEAT       RICE       RICE    SORGHUM   COTTON                     (COW)       (COW)        MILK    (BUFFALO) (BUFFALO)                     Urea       DAP    Potassium
SKIM MILK   BUTTER        COW      SKIM MILK   BUTTER                                         Chloride
WORLD MARKET PRICE (YEAR 1998)                                                                                        POWER                    MILK      POWDER                  BUFFALO
51                     o             os          7/                         MILK q/
In 199Sdollars                      USSMT            121       250        250        106       1.500                   1.700       1,600                   1,700       1,600                    130        200        117
QUALITYADJUSTMENT                    %                  80         80        80         90          90                      90         100                      90         100                    100        100        100
WORLD MARKET EQUIVALENT              USSMT             97        200       200         95        1.350                  1,530       1.600                   1,530        1.600                   130        200        117
Intemational shipping               USSMT             50         50       (50)        50        (250)                    100         100                     100         100                     50         50         50
CIF INDIAN PORT(MADRAS)              USS/MT            147        250        150       145        1 100                  1 630       1,700                   1,630       1,700                    180        250        167
EXCHANGE RATE e                      Rs/USS             42         42        42         42          42                      42          42                      42          42                     42         42         42
CIFINDIAN PORT                       Rs/MT           6,166     10.500      6.300     6107       46.200                  68.460      71 400                  68.460      71.400                  7,560      10,500     6.993
Portcharges                         RsIMT             154       263       (158)       153       (1 155)                 4.792       4,998                   4,792       4,998                    189        263        t75
Intemal transport                   Rs1MT             200       200       (200)       200        (200)                    200         200                     200         200                    200        200        200
Intemal handling                    Rs[MT             120        120      (120)       120        (120)                    150         150                     150         150                    120        120        120
PROCESSED VALUE                      Rs/MT           6,640     11.083      5,823     6,579      44,725                  73,602      76 748                  73,602      76.748                  8,069     11,083      7,488
Processing ratlo                    %                  90        65         65         90          35                       9           5                       9           9                     90         90         90
ax.       Processing costs                    Rs/MT            (150)      (150)     (150)      (150)       (500)                   (300)       (300)                   (300)       (300)                  (150)      (150)      (150)
-4>'     Value of cotton seed                 RstMT                                                       2.500
WHOLESALE VALUE                      RsIMT           5,826      7,054      3.635      5,772      17,654                  6,103       3,614       9,718       6.471       6,684    1315547        7,112      9,824     6.5B9
Local marketingltransport           RsIMT            (200)     (200)      (200)      (200)       (300)                                           (350)                             -350 00      (200)      (200)      (200)
FARMGATE PRICE                       RsIMT           5,626      6.854      3.435     5.572      17,354                                           9,368                            12805 47      6,912      9,624      8,389
ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICE              Rs/KG            563        685        3.43       557        1735                                            937                                 1281       691         962       639
FINANCIAL FARMGATE PRICE             Rs/KG                       4 90       4 90                 21 00                                            9 00                                11 00
avg=            514
(1) Parity [-I Import [E) Export
(2) World Bank commodily pnoes for the 1998 (published August 1998)
Dairy prores from FAO Commodity Market Review, 1997-98
(4) Exchange rate for FY1 998 (IFS)
(5) vvholesale value reters to seed cotton
(6) Cow milk containing 4.5% fat and 9% Non Fat Solids (NFS)
(7) Buffalo mdik contains 7.5% fat and 9 5% Non Fat Solids (NFS)
(8) One IRre of cow milk (4 5% fat and 9% NFS) produces 90 9 of SMP and 56 25 g of butter
(9) One lnre of buffalo milk (7.5% fat and 9 5% NFS) produces 95 g ol SMP and 93 75 g of butter



INDIA Tarnil Nadu Agrirultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3- Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 2: Economic and Financial Prices of Non-Traded Crops and Forest Products
Unit     Farmsate   Economic                          Unit     Farmgale   Economic
Paddy           kg              4.9        51             seeds - certired
Millet          kg                                          paddy    kg                9         8.
Pulses          kg               19       171               millet    kg               7         6.3
Groundnut       kg               12        10.8             black gramkg              22         198
Cotton        quintal         2100        1735              groundnut kg              16         144
Sunflower       kg               12       10.8              cotton    kg              35        31 5
sunflower kg               15        1315
N               kg             3.75        69
P               kg               3           5
K               kg             3.85        6 4            seeds - non-cenified
DAP             kg              8.7        9.6              paddy    kg                6          54
Monure         cast             75        67.5              millet    kg                           0
SprayingClua   tank              10          9              black gramkg              20          is
AnimalTract animal/day         250         225              groundn.t kg              15         13.5
TractorHire    hours           200         ISO              cotson    kg              22         19 S
Ln             labour                                                     sunflower kg                           10
Male          day              70         63
Femnle        day              40         36            SCF-            0.9



INDIA Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3. Econotic Re-Evaluation
Table 3A. Prejfet Investment Costs
FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY%        FY97      FY9S        Total
Eaahnae nate                  24 52     26.41     3136        314      33 46       35 0     3716      42 37
" s66..onrs.r AI .O.'
Actual Pr7jert Cos in Cone-t Rupes (.nitRottl) -WC.Aa   e                                                                            Actual Pitnio  Cosn le Coun-se tS Rupees(itlin-) _lCl
Cespenet                    FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY06       FY97      FY50        Total               Conponont                         FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97        FY9t        Toutl
Agonltunttal Planning         " 354      6 5S      3 734     3 771    11 812      5 716    28 478      12 60       96125             Agnialtural PInn.ins                 2 22      10 20          211     4 86       14 17       6 40      10 47      12 6S       109 21
Agnicn11tonEnItnision        37 174    69643     52257    107.3    n966           85.52    53082   262 272        77) 546            Agsicoltnrat Eotoedne               6097      101795      7473       119 I)     11906       95070      5979    262 272        92155
Seed PFdnotion                 703S     6 018    12.639    19565      12622      15574     14(1)4    121 0)6      210 108            Sed Prodation                       11 56      1)157      18017       25 24      15 15      1744       15 12    121 N0        23485
WateI.ed DIetpmene            2732      1752    45447    52476    47877          51 400    42817      I 9S)0      261 265            WatershedDeetoptent                  448       27 16      6499       6769        5745       5767       45 81      0900        126 16
Litnaotk                     13 101    46993    92577    93.211    61254    74214    31 615    82218              497 325           Li-estk                              2162       7284      13219       121)27      7591       81 4       11383     02210        62223
Foee.tr                      19074    42971      48261    1080 01    116721    115 587      6003     20584        519 969            Forese                              31 28      (661       69))1     14)146      14)1)17    11026       71 71     29 584       66090
RuralI RIad                   41)35    12 139    54489   140 137   2993351   126 964   216 I')   169 567         1212 105            Rral Road.                           6 62      1928       7792      191 Io      159 94     56 23      211 57    169 567      1422 20
RurnlWatenSappl               a 0906   17713    73 795    46620    144374    115 11$    42 31    119285           585 172            R.ralWator0d- ppl5                  1474       2746      111 la    I     S II   17 7125    15111       4527    113 215        69216,
Total                        93 586   220 601   182 159   580)521   793 579   6)) 2))   3)19) 460    01032      4192.52             Total                              15340 1     42 116    54649      74007       959 89     8W0 21    59333       01 312    4,996.84
Source. tOTN                                                                                                                        6...x.do9.d6.Mbo69.)                  1 6J       155         141        1 79        12        1 12       107           1
Actual PFeitol Costs in Cone-t  ISS teitlionI o.l.   isas.'.
Conpo-nent                  FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97      FY90         Total               Eonootio PFreot (o7t. in C.n.tant 199Y Ropr. .s .il.io.n
Aglcoltora PI .nening         1)1959    11249     1)103      1)12) )    1)53      I 161     O)7)16    1)777         2.665            CotmI-ndnt                       FY31        FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95       FY0        FY97        FY98        Total
C  Agnietlral Enstea.n        I1516     2637       I 616    31438      2900       2439      1 5)4     6234         22.393            Agti,1-ra Plannicg                 1 999      9.179       7 98s)     4378      12757       5762      27 424      29412        91290)
Seed Pendoation               0288      0259      0.403      0624      0.177      11439     11170      2899          5.662           Agroatn-ratE o-oion              54 869     97 155     67255    125 191    15171W,1    0621)4       53 814    2361145       828 496
Wat.eshed leroptent           0 III     0663       1 449     1 673      1 431     1 450     1 152      11022         7.952           Sed Pedaclintie                   1 4)1       9511       16 266     22715      11632      15699       13 315    109 625      211369
Livetogck                     05t9      1.779     2952       2.973        01)     2091      0851       1.954        15.1129          Wotneeed D-nl,-tmet                4032      24440l    580490       61 925     51 7117    51910     41 233       0.817     293 549
Fneotey                       0778      1 627      1539      3472      1408       2974     1I 54      0703         16.436            Li-entek                          19455      63555    119 147    100 244       68114      74828      30465       71996      5601801
RotRntat do                   0.165     0471       1.738     4724      8.965     9210       5824      4031         35.126            Foets,                            20 153     59945      62 112    126411    126 059    111 432       66.341      26626      602 078
Rued WaItee Spplb             0 366     0.671     2256       1487      4315      3906       1 139     2835         16.875            Rurat Roada                        5956       17355      70 127    171 907    323 949    32925S0    201411      152 610    1.2790976
Total                         3.317     8.356    12.106    18.512    23.807    22.541      13.468    19.451       122.137            Ratal Wte,Sppl)                   13D263     24710       91062      54135    1953924    136199       403747    107357       6233973
Total                            13g 133    307 890    491 039    6739085    861 31)9   R06.60d3    881 951    736 480    4.497 153
Snoe: detived fmm  03OTN Wnee costo Aboro louhag.e Mt.e applied on shoo <eocht'
Adtal coato adjusted to 1990  pona and mutifplied by SCF ol0 9



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 3B. Exchange Rates, Inflation and Inflators for India
Year  Q  Rate    FY avg   WPI          WPI      WPI        Inflator
(1990=100)  annual  (1998=100) (1998=100)
1991  1   18.809               113.67
2   20.526    24.52      116.24   121.89      61.10     1.64
3   25.757               123.51
4   25.878               125.42
1992  1   25.914               122.40
2    25.89    26.41      125.20   129.13      64.72     1.55
3    25.89               129.50
4   25.979               130.80
1993  1   27.887               131.00
2   31.345    31.36      133.30   139.68      70.01     1.43
3   31.371               139.40
4    31.37               142.10
1994  1   31.371               143.90
2    31.37    31.40      149.90   154.98      77.68     1.29
3   31.371               153.40
4   31.383               156.20
1995  1   31.467               160.40
2   31.411    33.46      164.10   166.90      83.66     1.20
3   32.077               167.00
4   34.754               168.10
1996  1   35.607               168.40
2   34.739    35.50       172.3   177.78      89.11     1.12
3   35.647                177.9
4   35.739                 180
1997  1   35.878                180.9
2   35.814    37.16       182.2   186.15      93.31     1.07
3   36.026                184.2
4   37.535                187.9
1998  1   39.258                190.3
2   40.758    42.07       193.8   199.50       100      1.00
3   42.596                200.2
4   42.425                 201
1999  1     42.5                 203
67



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table
3C:
Exchange
Project
Financial  Exchange WPI        Inflator
Year      Rate       (100=1998) (1998=1)
91192           24.52     61.10      1.64
92/93           26.41     64.72      1.55
93194           31.36     70.01      1.43
94195           31.40     77.68      1.29
95196           33.46     83.66      1.20
96197           35.50     89.11      1.12
97198           37.16     93.11      1.07
98/99           42.07       100        1
Standard Conversion Factor           0.9
ratio of 1990 to 1998 constant prices:          2
0.325967
68



INDIA  Tawoil Nado AgriouturaloO DnVelopmeno Project - ICR
Annex 3 Ecoosoki Re-Evaluation
Table 4: Econonmic Crop Budgets - C.rtirmd Seed
Paddy                               Cotton                                Black Grutm                             Groundaut                           Salaner
Q,awtit    Unit Pric    Valt    Q .. OiI       Unit Pficc     VaIuS        Qaantity    Unit PNiso      ValM           Q"aai        Unit PNic    Value   Qnnlih   Unit Plick    VaIC
(A) Grss sa.I. of producti.o
wtput                      kg                  6250          5.1  31.175            21         1735      34.700            I50          171         14.535             150o       1111   16.200      900(         lMg    9.720
bl-pnoduct                 kg
aab-cailtts                                                      31.075                                 34.700)                                    14.535                               16.2(0                            9.720
(hB Psoduction con
Seeds                      kg                    f           8        486           s          31 S         15S            2(         19 8            396              2(0)      14 4     20(          1 5        13.5      2(3
Fn,tilincr
N            Lg                   27(1         69      (S63          192           6.9        ((49             54         69              371              37        69        255        17          69       61I
P            kg                   312            S     156t(         21)             5        1095            312           5            15(6(            212          5      106(0      125            5      625
K            kg                    04          64       531           5g           64          371                        6A4               0              90       614        576       33           (.4      211
DAP          kg                    401         96       304                        96            0             it)         96              96                       906                               9.6         0
mrmusre      ca."                  25         67 5     1618           25          67 5        161S                        675               0                       67 5                             6I (.7 5     (I
Arontsr,nicnls                                                        385                                   7(HR)                                       370                                 210                              360
Spasing chrges             lank                  4(0           9      360          2401           9         21601            65           9             585              4(1         9      36(1       4()           9       360
Aniotfltbtion              dss                    2         225       4501           6          225         135(1             4         225            9h0                5       225       1125         4         225       9003
N                                  IT tnrnrices                houn                  1O         l30      It00                       130            O                        109              II                       1m          0                    1(1         0
Itoistiro                lumpsutm
sat-toal costs                                                      9513                                  14(70                                      42801                                6536                             3259
(C) Netsagin ecl. Iboae(A-B)                                                   22,362                                  l9J30                                     101255                                9.664                            6,461
(D))Labone                sat           d-s                   3S          63      2394           43           63         2709             15          63            945               22        63      1316        18           63      1134
lesao        d.,s                 155           36     5530          176            36        6336             60          36            2160              *3         36     2900         55          36       1910
soblotat     dust                 193                  7,974         219                     9.045             75                       3.105             105                4.374        73                  3.114
(E) Nt osaegio                                                                  14.30                                  10,785                                     715iO                                52903 3,47



INDIA   Tatil Nadu Agricultural Devlopment Project - ICR
Annex 3 Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 5: Economic Crop Budgels - Non-Certified Seed
P.ddi                                  Cotton                                   Black Gram                                  Croundnut                             SunfOl-r
Qunotil'    Unit Prc      Value      Qunotit       Unit Pnce       Value        Qonets        Usit Pmee        Value           Q-atit        Uoit P.ce    Voluc   Qunatir    Unit Price       V.lu.
(A) Great 'nbc of production
ourput                       kg                    500()          51   25.5111             16          1735       27.760              701          17 1         11.970               1250(       ((8    13.5(1         750          (OR      S.100
by-prodoct                   kg
cub-totalr-ensue                                                       25.5(111                                  27.76(0                                       11.970                                  13.5(1)                             R 100
(B) Prodctino cotta
See&d                        kg                      6,:          5 4       324             6           (9 S           119             20           (8              361,:             20         13 5      2700         15            Bl       ISO
FPniliser
N             kg                     270             9      ( 8073        1(2             69          1049              54           69              373                17         69        255         87           1,9       6(00
P             kg                     312             S      156(           2(1              5         (119S            312            5              (1SW              212           5      1(060       1225                    625
K             kg                      04           64        538            50            6 4          371                           64                                 9(         6 4       576         33           6,4       211
DAP           kg                      46          )16        394                          96                            1"0          9(I              96,                          96           0                     9)6          0)
manure        can                     27          67i5      1(68            25           67 5         ](.8s                         67 5               II                         67 5 (7                            67 5          II
Agro-heb icals                                                              81"                                      700"                                           371                                     28(1                               36,11
Spin'og changcs              tnk                     401            9       360           24(1             )         21        6        5 hS         9              585               4al          9        3611        401            9       3601
Asimol ocl-ot                 d'a                     2          225        450             f 6         225          13571              4          225              91111               5        225       1125          4           22S       9(01
Tractor -r ices              hours (.I                            18(g     181(1                         I (18          I                          I1 (                                           1811        II                     I((         II
Imrlion                      laump-um
sub-totalcosls                                                           9776i                                      48931                                         4244                                    6356                               32017
O                        (C) Net mrgin exl labour (A-B)                                                         15,724                                    12,929                                         7,726                                   7,144                              4,894
(D) Labour                   mute          da'o                    37            69      2331            43            63          2719              1(5          (3              945                22         63       1386,        (0            63      1134
female        d-5s                   145            36      5220           151            36          5436              55           36             1980                78          36      288          SIl           36      I1836
subtotal      doa-                   182                   7 551           194                       0 145              70                         2 925               1((I               4J194          69                    2.970
(E) N  margin                                                                          8,173                                     4,784                                         4,8111                                   2.9541                             1.924



INDIA: Taonil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3 Economic Re-Evaluation
Tubk 6: Paramdo rI
h rmtatal       Quantdt  f
I -n          lacrean nam                   Yak.4 V oef  piAti            terasol
Nd lrtuo 1                            am sa .r    1 -1totoalal      r.-attat       f anributlk to   prdan
,,tana .n o4 d cr4d  etdidad and produlion                          prhddn    pajad (R1 I000) .attkiulk 1a                                            SAR Crop       ICR Crop Ykld.
Crp                 Am phaaod to ard rd (h.)               Cr,op yidd. (kgh -aal  (R./h.)                   (R.&.a        (ha)          (taut)          (R18.00)     c                pr-jaC (lC) iVd. (kg/fha)                                             (kga-uta
199          19O           2010     nta-c fkd    n(ifted       n--.rtifrrutifd                                                                                                                                       h-a ntHlflrd  erralfird   hesr4
Pdtl,               2408000       422.00       1.320.3%         5.000        6 25(      0171         14380         6(215        182.(X)0       227.318     1.111.130          371.273            75.075                                            250     S.A00      6.250        1.250
-ill..               87T00           95000      450.000                                                               --         40.1               -            .                -                 .()
pw.. a)                 00         96.u0        1500.0o          70(6          05,0    4.8111        7.150          2 349        15.000          2.251)       35.213           11.628              743                                             1110      700       05(1          10
a*ad. F/              31uO1         I8000       280 u00         1 25(1       I 510      2 950        51231          2.340        15 0X)           3175(1      35.100           11.583             1.218                                            2101    1.250      1.500         230
attll              12.I00         143101(       02.000         I.14X8       2f18K7     4.704        10.785         6AX011       "3.186           5.201)      78.017           23.746             1 716                                                    1.600      2.O01          400
5431000       720AX0    2.482.000
to.l                                                                                                                                                       1(279,482          422,229
a/ black gam
b/ evoumdool
/i oftbi roo.edareundorcat,ifiOdaood ih  a-ta,e.tiaaaauo dtba3 1(p-nI mis 1tb..ablIfl hc pro,.p-
Ihia,w.,.tptiooiaba-edouChC6facrhatooe.lhirdo.f1r  inooat.ddpddoliooo(cfifi6cd knnr.m..o..ed fa.-a
S.4 Catptnt Ea              CataB)orit tar.. (to '8ON aupaca)
Eoatak                                     bcofta1
ltetat aad Cmaadattr d                     (band - cata
Op.rati.g     IC..sau ata prajn (oats) pha-kg aridh
Catot          aprakaaaa p h ..   a.....  h g  0 yea tag)   Nd Betnfit.
108         10,406         (0.406           5%           -   -     10.406
1992         9.511         19.917           WY .                    9.511
1993        16.266         36.183          17%           -   -     16.266
(994        22.715        59.89S           28%           - -    22.715
195        13.632         72.530          14%        20.787        7.15S
096         15.699        S8.229           42%        39.786       24.087
997         13.515       101.743           48%.       72.280       58.763
990        109.625       211.369          100%.      117.655        8.029  p, ((Oi,)       107.b66
1909         6.341                                   144.8S6      138.545 in(10  i            39%
2000         6.341                                   176.245       169.904
200 1        6.341                                   203.242       196.901
2002         6.341                                   422.229      41S.888
2003         6.341                                   422.229      415.88S
2004         6.341                                   422.229      415,888
2005         6.341                                   422.229      415.088
2M06         6.341                                   422.229      415.880
2507         6.341                                   422.229      415.880
2008         6.341                                   422.229      435.808
2009         6.341                                   422.229      415.888 p' (20 yo)       801.503
2010         6.341                                   422.229      415.888 iar(20 y,,)         54%
adiatrd by SCF of 0.9 andin   o l I W8 pnta
*potatig -o,t afer p.*j,ct clotoar nto ciaklatod o 3 pant of total pngje 1C0t.



INDIA Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3 Economic Re-Evaluation
TABLE 7: MILK CATTLE ANNUAL ECONOMIC NET MARGINS
ITEM                                                        UNIT               BUFFALO            LOCAL COWS    CROSS BRED COWS
INCOME
Milk production/year                                       Litres                  814                    624                    1710
(220 days @ 3.7 litres/day) 260 days @ 2.4 litres/day) 300 days t 5.7 litres/day)
Annual Income per Animal
- @ Rs12.15/lit and Rs9/lit for buffalo & cow milk respect  Rs/year            9890.1                  5616                  15390
VARIABLE COSTS
Green Fodder- kg during lactation                         Kg/day                 15.00                  12.00                  12.00
- kg in dry period                           Kg/day                  11.00                  10.00                   9.00
-costs @  RsO.27/kg                          Rs/year               1408.05                1167.00                1237.95
Dry Fodder - kg during lactation                          Kg/day                  5.00                   5.00                   4.00
- kg in dry period                              Kg/day                  5.00                   5.00                   4.00
- costs @ Rsl.35/kg                            Rs/year               2463.75                2463.75                1971.00
Cattle Meal - kg                                         kg/year                500.00                   0 00                 840.00
- costs @ Rs3.38/kg                            Rs/year               1690.00                   0.00                2839.20
Animal Health                                            Rs/year          .    150.00                  150.00                 450.00
Labour - lactation 3 hours/day; dry period 2 hours/day  Hours/year              600.00                 600.00                 750.00
- person days (@ 8 hrs/day)                       P-d/year                75.00                  75.00                  93.75
- cost @ Rs36/day                                 Rs/year               2700.00                2700.00                3375.00
NET MARGIN PER ANIMAL                                     Rs/year               1478.30                -864.75                5516.85
NET MARGIN PER LITRE                                       Rs/litre                1.82                   -1.39                  3.23
NET MARGIN/ANIMAL NET OF LABOUR                           Rs/year               4178.30                1835.25                8891.85
RETURN TO LABOUR                                           Rs/day                 55.71                  24.47                  94.85
CALCULATION OF WEIGHTED MILKING ANIMAL ECONOMIC NET MARGIN USED PER LITRE OF MILK
Weighted milking animal gross margin per litre of milk
procured (Rs/litre) =                                       1.98
DERIVATION OF WEIGHTS
Proportion of        Productio/head             Net margin             Composite      Composite
ilk Animals             litres/day            rs. per litre  production weights    production
weights used
Buffalo       0.40                  3.70                    1.82                   1.48           0.36
Local cows       0.27                   2.40                   -1.39                  0.65           0.16
Cross-bred cows       0.34                   5.70                   3.23                    1.94          0.48
Total       1.01                                                                 4.07           1.00



L
tr1W   11   '      flJUt   IirE; f1  !                X     '
a   B                                
K  '.jR~ I                           E*               0   ' 
-~-                          
I:~~                                                              2
_ - ,      X         _ g 0  
- ~ oS                     R 
S  ~             S S                           a     
aa
a.
ifAo 
_,_l
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
gI
EE
F0g
a.1
U



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 9: Uvestock Component: Economic CostlBentfit Flows (in Rs '000)
Cumulative                Bernfits (based
Economic Investme  and Operating    investment and project (cost) on cost phasing
Costs *                           operfang costs phasing     with five year lag) Net Benefits
1991                            19.455         19,455         3%             -  -    19455
1992                            65,555        85.010         15%             -         65,555
1993                           119,147       204.157         36%             -  -   119,147
1994                           108,244        312.401        56%             -  -   108,244
1995                            68.314       380.715         68%                       68,314
1996                            74,828       455,543         81%          102,386      27,558
1197                            30,465       486.007         87%         447.381      416,916
1998                            73,996       560.003        100%        1.074.409    1,000.412   npvl10yrs)  1,571,105
1999                            16,800                                  1,644,057    1,627,257 irr(10yrs)        58%
2000                            16.800                                  2,003,572    1.986.772
2001                            16.800                                  2,397,366    2,380,565
2002                            16,800                                  2.557.690    2,540,890
2003                            16.800                                  2,947,107    2,930.307
2004                            16.8W                                   2.947,107    2,930,307
2005                            16.800                                  2,947,107    2,930,307
2006                            16,800                                  2,947,107    2,930,307
2007                            16,800                                  2,947.107    2,930,307
2008                            16,80                                   2.947.107    2,930.307
2009                            16.800                                  2,947,107    2,930,307   npv (20 yrs)  6,643,988
2010                            16.800                                  2,947,107    2,930,307 inr (20 yrs)      67%
* adjusted by SCF of 0.9 and in constant 1998 prices
operabng costs = 2% of investment cost



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 10. Forestry Component
Prices (Rs)                 Unit        Financial    Economic
Poles and Timber       m3                     1500         1350
Fuclwood               m3                     1000          900
Fodder                 mt                      150          135
Fruit and Oilseeds     mt                     7000         6300
Forestry Component: Area of Forest Developed (ha)
Zone                        SAR           ICR
Eco-restoration zone           8.600        8.631
Production zone               14,100        14,991
Interface zone                 6,900        7,956
Total to be treated          29.600       31.578



INDIA: Tamii Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 11: Forestry Component: Estimated Average Yields Per HectareNYear, With Project
Other
Poles and    Fuelwood                             Other Products   Products
Zone Year         Area          timber (m3)      (m3)     Fodder (m3) Fruits (m3)    (1990 Rs)       (1998 Rs)
Eco-restoration zone    1-10                8631          0.4           0.4         0.5                           20          40
11 onward            8631            1             2           1                          150          300
Production zone       1-10                14,991          0.5           0.5         1.3                           20          40
11 onward          14,991          2.5           3.5         1.5                          150          300
Interface zone        1-10                  7956          0.5           0.5         1.3         0.4               20           40
11 onward            7956           2              3           2         0.8              150          300
-a



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 12a: Forestry Component: Annual Production With Project
Poles and    Fuelwood                            Other Products
Zone         Year              Area     timber (m3)     (m3)      Fodder (m3) Fruits (m3)  (Rs '000 1998)
Eco-restoration zone   1-10               8,631       3,452         3,452       4,316         -               345
11 onward          8,631        8,631        17,262      8,631         -              2,589
Production zone       1-10               14,991       7,496         7,496      19,488         -               600
11 onward         14,991       37,478       52,469      22,487         -              4,497
Interface zone        1-10                7,956       3,978         3,978      10,343       3,182             318
11 onward          7,956       15,912       23,868      15,912       6,365            2,387
Total production      1-10               31,578      14,926        14,926      34,147       3,182            1,263
11 onward         31,578      62,021        93,599      47,030       6,365            9,473
_                                                                     Table 12b: Annual Production Without Project a/
Poles and    Fuelwood                            Other Products
Zone         Year              Area    timber (m3)      (m3)      Fodder (m3) Fruits (m3)  (Rs'000 1998)
Eco-restoration zone   1-10                           6,905         6,905       8,631         -               690
11-20                           3,452         3,452      4,316         -                345
21-30                           1,036         1,036      1,295         -                104
Production zone       1-10                            14991         14991     38976.6         -              1,199
11-20                           7,496        7,496      19,488         -               600
21-30                           2,249         2,249      5,846         -                180
Interface zone        1-10                             7956          7956     20685.6      6364.8             636
11-20                           3,978        3,978      10,343       3,182             318
21-30                           1,193         1,193      3,103         955               95
Total production      1-10                           29,852        29,852      68,293       6,365           2,526
11-20                          14,926       14,926      34,147       3,182            1,263
21-30                           4,478        4,478      10,244         955              379
a/ Without project situation assumes that production is double that of the WP situations in yrs 1-10,
and 50% the WOP level of yrs 1-11 in years 11-20, and 15% of that amount in yrs 21-30.



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 12c: Incremental Annual Production
Poles and    Fuelwood                            Other Products
Zone         Year              Area    timber (m3)      (m3)      Fodder (m3) Fruits (m3)  (Rs'000 1998)
Eco-re_toration zoe    1-10                     -     3,452 -       3,452 -    4,316          -   -           345
11-20                           5,179        13,810      4,316         -              2,244
21-30                           7,595        16,226      7,336          -             2,486
Production zone       1-10                      -     7,496 -       7,496 -   19,488          -   -           600
11-20                          29,982       44,973       2,998          -             3,898
21-30                          35,229        50,220     16,640          -             4,317
Irderacezone          1-10                      -     3,978 -       3,978 -   10,343 -    3,182 -             318
11-20                          11,934        19,890      5,569       3,182            2,069
21-30                          14,719        22,675     12,809        5,410           2,291
Total production      1-10                      -    14,926 -      14,926 -   34,147 -    3,182 -            1,263
_J                                         11-20                          47,095        78,673      12,883       3,182            8,210
X0                                         21-30                          57,543        89,121      36,786       5,410           9,094
a/ WVfout project situation assumes that production is double that of the WP situations in yrs 1-10,
and 50% the WOP level of yrs 1-11 in years 11-20, and 15% of that amount in yrs 21-30.



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Developmcnt Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 12d: Value of Incremental Production
Total value
of
Poles and                                     Other Products production
Zone         Year            Area       timber     Fuelwood     Fodder      Fruits    (Rs'000 1998)  (Rs'000)
Eco-restoration zone   1-10                  -    4,661 -       3,107 -      583         -  -           345 -      8,696
11-20                         6,991       12,429        583        -             2,244      22,246
21-30                        10,254       14,604        990         -            2,486      28,333
Productionzone       1-10                    -   10,119 -       6,746 -    2,631         -   -          600 -    20,095
11-20                        40,476       40,476        405        -             3,898      85,254
21-30                        47,559       45,198      2,246         -            4,317      99,321
Interface zone       1-10                    -    5,370 -       3,580 -    1,396 -   20,049 -           318 -    30,714
11-20                        16,111       17,901        752      20,049          2,069      56,881
21-30                        19,870       20,407      1,729      34,084          2,291      78,381
1-10                    -   20,150 -      13,433 -    4,610 -   20,049 -         1,263 -    59,505
Total production     11-20                        63,578       70,805       1,739     20,049          8,210      164,382
21-30                        77,683       80,209      4,966      34,084          9,094     206,035



INDIA: Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 13: Forestry Component: Economic Cost/Benefit Flows (in Rs'000)
Economic   Cumulative
Investment  investment
and         and          project
Operating    operating    (cost)
Costs ^ al   costs       phasing    Benefits      Net Benefits
1991      28,153      28,153          5% -      2,782 -   30,936
1992      59,945      88,098         15% -      8,707 -   68,652
1993      62,112     150,210         25% -     14,846 -   76,958
1994     126,411     276,621         46% -     27,339 -  153,750
1995     126,059     402,679         67% -     39,798 -  165,857
1996     106,432     509,111         85% -     50,317 -  156,749
1997      66,341     575,452         96% -     56,874 -  123,215
1998      26,626     602,078        100% -     59,505 -   86,131
1999      30,104                    100% -     59,505 -   89,609
2000      30,104                    100% -      59,505 -   89,609
2001      30,104                      5% -     49,036 -   79,140
2002      30,104                     15% -     26,746 -   56,849
2003      30,104                     25% -       3,649 -   33,753
2004      30,104                     46%        43,358     13,254
2005      30,104                     67%        90,234     60,130
2006      30,104                     85%       129,811     99,707
2007      30,104                     96%       154,481    124,377
2008      30,104                    100%       164,382    134,278
2009      30,104                    100%       164,382    134,278
2010      30,104                    100%       164,382    134,278
2011      30,104                      5%       166,329    136,225
2012      30,104                     15%       170,477    140,373
2013      30,104                     25%       174,774    144,670
2014      30,104                     46%       183,519    153,415
2015      30,104                     67%       192,240    162,136
2016      30,104                     85%       199,604    169,500
2017      30,104                     96%      204,193     174,089
2018      30,104                    100%      206,035     175,931
2019      30,104                    100%      206,035     175,931  npv (30 yrs)      -418,670
2020      30,104                    100%      206,035     175,931 err (30 yrs)            4%
adjusted by SCF of 0.9 and in constant 1998 prices
al as no production (variable) costs are included in the benefit calculation, it is assumed that
5% of total investment cost is required annually to maintain the flow of benefits



INDIZA: Tansil Nadut Agtlcultural Dovolopment Project - ICR
Annex 3: Economic Re-EvaluatIo
Toable 14. Cost and Benefit Flowis and Economic Re-Evalsismis
7 2           4           2           2           0                $       72      7            7      2     2      0      3         0      2        $        7     2     2
72O792                                      72    12 *2          Y     72      0$     70
mea-~~~.s  --   noso  oso.,.  scoot  ossos  mist  3027   2$. 707~~~~~~~~~~~M.
P.- ), S 7                  2.$720SC    222"0"5    200 275



77                                     70                                      79                                       8E -7
I N D I A                                  *1                SANDHRA PRADESH                                                 >
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                         A             PRADESH
TAMIL NADU                                                   .
M ES
O          20          40    .     0                                                . .75
40                   so                                                                                          Z4R Y'AR          ~
KLOMEIFRS                                                                                                     F'~              NAJR
*-  DHAIMAPURI
D  hormour
-12'                 KARNATAKA12
**0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NILGiRIS                                        -/
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
:: .-: -'AMAAARt / X if  fm- R-TOPWCRI                                                                                         A       -     fRAS I
-SEMEN DISTRIREOBUTN CENTERS:
- -=     WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IAKATTABO4MAN//T  \  tj  X   --:   :  -                           l3PlL0TAREA5 -_
ID ~     ~      ~             ,           -           =3FORESTRY
es~~4 / | F 5 / - ' -- - ' - : ~~~~=                               3RURAJ. WA,TER SUPPELY
ABO/   - A' MAN- F   - - -   -    -   :: =: 3RUM ROADS
W- -  TAMiL NADU AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
- , _ >p X S J- - x-t: - - - EXt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XITING:
t _ | / , ;;i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAt HIGHWAY
, *; \ t / t * 2  s. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS-
SECONDARY ROIADS
RAILROADS
N       ANYAXEMARST t                                                                         / = RIVERS
-   AIRPORTS
   STATE CAPITAL
m.anab rr"-, |_uflyOR l                                                                     -CO SELECTED TOWNS
-DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
r7 .                                                                                                                        - .D;= ->*  _ STATE BOUNDARIES
-i    >  X  sl     re   ;.d to -
.o - 77                                                7E'                                                         V'                                      E' 790 o
o ,_   _    o                       1                  _             _       1                                       l               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



