\BOGUME
CREDIT NUMBER 2215 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3300 IN
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated                             , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2215 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3300 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1991, between
INTERNATIONAL    DEVELOPMEN    ASSOCIATION    (the   Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and STATE OF TAMIL NADU (Tamil Nadu).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty four million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 64,100,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the State of Tamil Nadu agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Tamil Nadu agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
WHEREAS Tamil Nadu, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement, and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tamil Nadu declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through its relevant departments and agencies with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Tamil Nadu shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement
and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, at the request of the
Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   Tamil Nadu shall promptly inform the Association and
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit or the Loan, or the performance by Tamil Nadu of its
obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Tamil Nadu shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of Tamil Nadu responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Tamil Nadu shall:
(i)   have  its  records  and  accounts   referred  to
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the
Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its records and accounts for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association and the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof,
as the Association and the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of Tamil Nadu thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with their respective
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement or both of the said Agreements terminate in accordance
with their respective terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both shall
promptly notify Tamil Nadu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the State of Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary
Government of Tamil Nadu
Fort St. George, Madras, PIN 600009
India
Telex:
953 418238
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Tamil Nadu shall
designate in writing, and Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Tamil Nadu and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:


﻿-6-
(a)   the obligations of Tamil Nadu to consult with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)   the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, Tamil Nadu shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)   all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By//
Regional Vice President
Asia
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of equipment in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 and 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Paragraph 2 hereof, contracts for civil
works shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
2.    All watershed and forestry works and civil works related to
on-farm development not exceeding tne equivalent of $2,000,000 may
be carried out through force account.
3.    Except as provided in Paragraph 4 hereof, equipment estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract may be,
and furniture and vehicles shall be, procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank.
4.    Equipment, furniture and vehicles, estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent respectively, may be procured
under quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers


﻿-8-
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
5.    Livestock, seeds, semen and materials may be procured under
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, or under direct
contracting procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank,
provided, however, that procurement under such direct contracting
procedures does not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
Part D:     Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to (i) each contract awarded under Part A
above; (ii) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (iii) each contract for vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association and the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association and the Bank pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association and the
Bank have authorized withdrawals from the Credit and Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Tamil Nadu in carrying out Parts A.1 and
E.l(e) of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Tamil Nadu shall, by September 30, 1991, change the status of
the current agriculture working group within SPC to that of a
standing committee and expand the membership of such committee to
include additional technical staff and representatives of farmers
and agri-businesses, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
2.    Tamil Nadu shall, through PPD, DOA, and DAH, as appropriate,
develop terms of reference for the studies under clauses (a), (b),
(c), and (d) of Part A.2 of the Project and the studies under Parts
B.5, C.3 and E.l(f) of the Project, and by September 30, 1991,
furnish such terms of reference to the Association and the Bank for
review and approval.
3.    Tamil Nadu shall:
(a) by July 31, 1992 complete and furnish to the Association
and the Bank the studies under Parts A.2(a), A.2(b), A.2(c), A.2(d)
of the Project acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(b) by September 30, 1992 complete and furnish to the
Association and the Bank the study under Part B.5 of the Project
acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(c) by June 30, 1992 complete and furnish to the Association
and the Bank the study under Part C.3 of the Project acceptable to
the Association and the Bank;
(d) by December 31, 1991 complete and furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Bank the study and Part E.l(f) of the Project accep-
table to the Association and the Bank;
4.    Tamil Nadu shall, through DOA, develop a detailed training
plan for agriculture extension staff with annual implementation
plans and an assessment of SLT's training needs, and shall, by
September 30, 1991, furnish to the Association and the Bank such
plan and assessment satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
5.    Tamil Nadu shall:
(a)   calculate on an annual basis the production       and
distribution costs of seeds under methodology acceptable to the
Association and the Bank;
(b)   by March 31, 1993, eliminate Tamil Nadu subsidies on
all sales of seeds except the subsidies provided under the Bor-
rower's national programs;
(c)   by March 31, 1993 eliminate DOA's pesticide trading
activities except as may be required to deal with natural calamities
including mass pest infestations; and
(d)   by March 31, 1993, eliminate DOA's direct seed trading
activities except as may be required to implement the Borrower's
national programs.
6.    Tamil Nadu shall:
(a)   calculate on   an annual basis the production     and
distribution costs of livestock semen under methodology acceptable
to the Association and the Bank; and
(b)   by July 31, 1994, fully recover production and distribu-
tion costs of livestock semen.
7.    Tamil Nadu shall ensure that incremental staff hired by DOF
for the catchment areas selected under Part F.1 of the Project,
shall, upon the completion of the Project, be deployed in other
catchment areas in Tamil Nadu.
8.    Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions of
Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, Tamil Nadu shall carry out
maintenance of the roads to be upgraded and improved under the
Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
9.    Not later than March 31, 1992 and not later than March 31 of
each subsequent year during the implementation of the Project, Tamil
Nadu shall formulate annual plans in respect of the works to be
carried out under Parts G.1 and H.7 of the Project during the next
Fiscal Year, including adoption of all necessary measures required
for implementing such plans, satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank.


﻿- 12 -
10.   Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions of the Association, Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions of the Bank and Section 2.04 of this Agreement, Tamil
Nadu shall, by June 30, 1992 and by June 30 of each subsequent year
during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the Association
and the Bank annual reports on the progress of the Project.
11.   In carrying out Part D of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall
establish the following cost sharing arrangements with benefi-
ciaries:
(a)   in respect of privately owned arable and non-arable
lands to be treated under the Project, the individual beneficiary
landholder shall contribute, depending upon the type of treatment,
at least ten to fifteen percent of the cost of labor and planting
materials relating to such treatment in respect of the beneficiary's
land;
(b)   in respect of arable and non-arable community lands,
vested in the Panchayats, to be treated under the Project, the
Panchayats shall contribute not less than ten percent of the cost
of labor relating to such treatment;
(c)   in respect of non-arable State forest land, Tamil Nadu
shall enter into written agreements with beneficiaries or their
representatives for the purpose of sharing: (i) the responsibility
for protecting the forest resources to be developed under the
Project; and (ii) the benefits resulting from such development.
12.   Tamil Nadu shall in consultation with the Borrower, the
Association and the Bank and in accordance with terms of reference
and methodology satisfactory to the Association and the Bank,
undertake and complete:    (a) by December 31, 1991, a base-line
survey of the Project; (b) by September 30, 1994, a mid-term review
of the Project; and (c) a final evaluation of the Project within
three months after the Closing Date.
13.   Tamil Nadu shall, through PCC and the APC, monitor and
coordinate the activities of the relevant government departments
and agencies under the Project for purposes of ensuring effective
interaction among such departments and agencies and prompt and
efficient implementation of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
14.   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, Tamil Nadu shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
15.   Tamil Nadu shall, by June 30, 1991, staff DRD with adequate
personnel satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


