000UENT%
CREDIT NUMBER 2215 IN
k,~C,A-,4      3 :; -' 0/
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project - Tamil Nadu)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2215 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1991, between INDIA,
acting  by   its  President    (the 'Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan
Agreement as herein further defined), the Bank is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made;
(D)   the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil
Nadu with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to such State the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and
the State of Tamil Nadu;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements"
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement,
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Tamil Nadu of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(d)   "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a state of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e)   "SPC" means the State Planning Commission of Tamil Nadu;
(f)   "DOA" means the Directorate of Agriculture of Tamil
Nadu;
(g)   "APC" means the Agriculture Production Commissioner of
Tamil Nadu;
(h)   "PCC" means the Project Coordination Committee es-
tablished by Tamil Nadu for the purpose of coordinating the
activities under the Project;
(i)   "SLTI" means the State Level Training Institute of Tamil
Nadu;
(j)   "TNAU" means Tamil Nadu Agricultural University;
(k)   "WPCC" means the Watershed Planning and Coordination
Cell established within DOA;


﻿- 3 -
(1)  "DAH" means the Directorate of Animal Husbandry of Tamil
Nadu;
(m)   "DOF" means the Department of Forestry of Tamil Nadu;
(n)   "PWD" means the Public Works Department of Tamil Nadu;
(o)   "DRD" means the Department of Rural Development of Tamil
Nadu;
(p)   "DEAR" means the Department of Evaluation and Applied
Research of Tamil Nadu; and
(q)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower
beginning on April 1 and ending on March 31 of the following
calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty four million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 64,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2025. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the


﻿-5-
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Tamil Nadu to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Tamil
Nadu therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) participate in the
carrying out of the mid-term review of the Project referred to in
paragraph 12(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (b)
participate in the final evaluation of the Project referred to in
paragraph 12(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.


﻿- 7-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
tures submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Tamil Nadu
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days


﻿-8-
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b)   that Tamil Nadu shall have deployed key staff, satisfac-
tory to the Association, of the administrative units established
within its relevant departments and agencies for purposes of
implementing the activities under the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu, and is legally
binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the


﻿- 9 -
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Depa::tment of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, PIN 110001, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   1                 WtJ3LDL       L
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of          Amount of
the Credit        the Loan
Allocated          Allocated
(Expressed         (Expressed        % of
in SDR           in Dollar      Expenditures
Category      Equivalent)        Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works    20,900,000        6,500,000     90%
(except under
Parts D.2,
D.4 and F.1
of the
Project)
(2) Watershed and 12,600,000         3,800,000     90%
forestry deve-
lopment works
under Parts
D.2, D.4 and
F.1 of the
Project, in-
cluding related
civil works


﻿- 12 -
Amount of         Amount of
the Credit        the Loan
Allocated         Allocated
(Expressed        (Expressed        % of
in SDR          in Dollar       Expenditures
Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Equipment,      6,300,000       2,000,000     100% of foreign
.materials,                                    expenditures,
vehicles,                                      100% of local
furniture,                                    expenditures
livestock,                                     (ex-factory
seeds and                                     cost), and 80%
semen                                         of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured
locally
(4) Overseas con- 1,900,000           700,000     100%
sultants' ser-
vices under
Parts A.1 and
E.l(e) of the
Project, and
training
(5) Incremental   16,000,000        5,000,000     90% of
operating                                     expenditures
costs                                         incurred until
March 31, 1994,
75% of expend-
itures incurred
thereafter
until March 31,
1996, and 60%
of expenditures
incurred there-
after
(6) Unallocated    6,400,000         2,000,000
TOTAL      SDR 64,100,000       $20,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the  term  "incremental operating costs" means the
incremental costs for salaries and allowances of staff, for the
operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, and for the
maintenance of works incurred by Tamil Nadu afid its relevant
departments and agencies for purposes of implementing the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,100,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after June 30, 1990.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are: (a) to improve Tamil Nadu's
capability to analyze developmental constraints limiting agricul-
tural productivity and growth, establish investment priorities in
the agricultural sector and make better policy choices; (b) to
assist in institutional development for rendering more cost-
effective services to farmers; and (c) to support selected priority
investment programs of Tamil Nadu in agricultural and rural
development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Planning
1.    Strengthening the planning capabilities of SPC through
administrative changes and the provision of additional staff,
training, computers and office equipment, and technical assistance.
2.    Carrying out of the following studies to assist in the
analyses of public policy issues impacting on agricultural develop-
ment for a better management of market forces in Tamil Nadu: (a)
productivity per unit of water under various land use mixes; (b)
marketing practices of paddy and its fiscal and production impact;
(c) the changing structure of demand for agriculture products and
Tamil Nadu's comparative advantages in agriculture; (d) state
livestock policy and its impact on private veterinarians; and (e)
such other studies as may be mutually agreed upon relating to
agricultural policy and development in Tamil Nadu.
Part B:     Agriculture Extension
1.    Strengthening the agricultural extension service in Tamil Nadu
through broad-basing and consolidation of extension services,
enlarging the coverage and improving the quality of such services.
2.    Construction of one DOA office building, about 50 sub-
divisional offices and upgrading of SLTI.


﻿- 15 -
3.    Provision of training for improving the quality of agriculture
extension services and strengthening the training capabilities of
SLTI.
4.    Strengthening  DOA's  management   information  system  for
resource-based decentralized extension planning from the district
level.
5.    Carrying out of a study on DOA's personnel policy.
Part C:     Seed Production
1.    Strengthening the infrastructure facilities for the production
of breeder and foundation seeds in seven existing TNAU seed farms,
one new TNAU seed farm in Kumulur, and about forty five foundation
seed farms operated by DOA, including the provision of vehicles.
2.    Establishment of three seed testing laboratories and six
enforcement units for seed quality.
3.    Promoting the privatization of the seed industry in Tamil Nadu
including the carrying out of a study on Tamil Nadu's seed pricing
policy and its impact on private sector seed industry.
Part D:     Watershed Development
1.    Promotion of watershed activities in Tamil Nadu.
2.    Treatment of the Palar and Vellar watersheds.
3.    Establishment of a multi-disciplinary task force in each of
the Palar and Vellar watersheds for the preparation of watershed
plans.
4.    Introduction of watershed technology, including stabilization
of drainage line structures, in about 12 districts (outside of the
Palar and Vellar watersheds).
5.    Technical assistance to WPCC and the multi-disciplinary task
forces in the Palar and Vellar watersheds for land resource mapping
and nursery development.
6.    Establishment of an operational research program in the Palar
and Vellar watersheds to adapt watershed technology to local
conditions and develop alternate land use practices including the


﻿- 16 -
identification of suitable species for agro-forestry, fodder and
silvipastoral development.
7.    Services of consultants to WPCC for developing appropriate
strategies  for   interactive  and  multi-disciplinary  watershed
development planning, including cost-benefit sharing and management
of common property resources related to watershed development.
8.    Provision of training on watershed technology, equipment and
vehicles.
Part E:     Livestock Development
1.    Strengthening the capacity of DAH to produce, procure and
distribute frozen animal semen from both exotic breeds and stabi-
lized cross-breeds through:
(a)   improvement  of   semen   production  facilities   on
Eachenkottai/Orathanad farm for buffalo, and on Hosur farm for
cattle;
(b)   acquisition of livestock for breeding purposes and of
frozen semen of selected types of pure- and cross-bred animals not
produced in Tamil Nadu;
(c)   establishment of about 10 liquid nitrogen and semen
storage centers, including the provision of training and equipment
and vehicles;
(d)   provision of training and equipment required for the
expansion of the frozen semen artificial insemination service to
existing artificial insemination centers;
(e)   establishment of a Division within DAH responsible for
coordinating semen production and distribution functions, including
provision of equipment and vehicles and services of consultants to
assist in the preparation of implementation plans for the breeding
program and training of staff in animal breeding and genetics;
(f)   carrying out of a study on artificial insemination
operations to identify measures for improving the conception rate;
(g)   strengthening the overall planning capabilities of DAH
by augmenting its planning and statistical units, including
provision of computers and office equipment; and


﻿- 17 -
(h)   establishing an embryo-transfer unit at the Hosur farm.
2.    Developing forage production through:
(a)   acquisition of forage seed for research and promotional
activities;
(b)   establishment of forage    development  teams  at the
district and state levels, including provision of training and
equipment; and
(c)   services of consultants to assist TNAU in the develop-
ment of a forage production computer based monitoring and data
management system.
3.    Improving veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological services
through:
(a)   strengthening the Animal Disease Surveillance Unit at
DAH;
(b)   establishment of four regional veterinary diagnostic
laboratories each with a regional epidemiological unit;
(c)   strengthening eight disease intelligence units in the
monitoring and disease surveillance program;
(d)   provision of training and computers and office equip-
ment; and
(e)   consultancy services.
Part F:     Forestry Development
1.    Carrying out of a forestry plantation establishment program
aiming at rehabilitation of degraded reserve forests in selected
catchment areas focussing on the Western Ghats.
2.    Institutional development of DOF, including:
(a)   at the state level, the establishment of seed supply
and technology transfer units, and strengthening of the Economic
Office and motivation and social/statistical units, and forestry
research; and


﻿- 18 -
(b)   at the district level, the establishment of five forest
divisions serving the catchment areas selected under the Project.
Part G:     Rural Roads
1.    Upgrading and improving rural roads focussing on areas and
villages serving key market centers in selected districts charac-
terized by large proportions of cultivable areas and agriculture
production, and on districts where watershed and forestry activities
are carried out under the Project.
2.    Strengthening the supervision and inspection capabilities of
PWD through the provision of training, equipment and vehicles.
Part H:     Rural Water Supply
1.    Construction of rural water supply installations in selected
districts.
2.    Strengthening the technical capabilities of DRD at the state,
district and block levels, through the establishment of a technical
cell at the state level and a rural water supply division in each
of the selected districts, augmentation of district, division and
block level technical staff, provision of training, equipment and
vehicles, and services of consultants.
3.    Provision of spare parts for India Mark II and Mark III
handpumps for block level stores in the selected districts.
Part I:     Monitoring, Coordination and Evaluation
1.    Strengthening the coordination and monitoring role of the
office of the APC through the establishment of a monitoring and
coordination cell with additional staff, computers and office
equipment, and vehicles.
2.    Services of consultants to DOA for reviewing and developing
a management information system, and provision of training,
computers and office equipment.


﻿- 19 -
3.    Carrying out of a base-line survey, a mid-term review and a
final evaluation of the Project, and provision of computers and
office equipment for DEAR.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replen-
ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(i)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions    of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions
applicable thereto; or
(ii)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for the Project, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02


﻿- 22 -
of the respective General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association
or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant
to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


