               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                                                   87252
                        International Development Association
                          International Finance Corportation
                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                   CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS98-29
                                                                                               January 26, 1998


   Board Meeting of January 27, 1998
   Statement by Olivier Bourges


           HUNGARY - Country Assistance Strategy and Public Structural Adjustment Loan

   I.     Since the discussions on the last CAS for Hungary, a little more than three years ago, the
   situation has improved dramatically. Indeed, Hungary is now poised with a strong
   macroeconomic situation and enhanced competitiveness as a result of three years of disciplined
   fiscal and monetary policy, bolstered by large-scale privatization and financial sector reform. If
   important issues remain to be addressed, such as the financial sustainability of the health sector
   or the remaining infrastructure bottlenecks for instance, much of the transition process has been
   achieved, as acknowledged by the European Commission's conclusions that Hungary presents
   stable democratic institutions, has a functioning market capable of competing in the medium
   term within the EU and will also be capable of fully adopting the acquis communautaire.

   2.     The agenda for Hungary is therefore very clear: to secure the outlook for sustained growth
   and to join the European Union at the dawn of the next century, which prospect acts as a catalyst
   for institutional and economic reforms. The Bank can naturally play a useful supportive role in
   this process. In light of the numerous players involved in delivering assistance and the increasing
   access to international capital markets, it is of the utmost importance to place emphasis on
   cooperation between institutions and selectivity. In this respect, I am very much encouraged by
   ongoing progress toward a "framework of understandings" among the European Commission,
   the EIB, the EBRD and the World Bank. Not only should this help minimize disputes over
   investment opportunities as sometimes experienced in the past but should also, hopefully,
   enhance prospects for synergies and joint financing opportunities. While the areas of focus of the
   Bank program appear fully appropriate, flexibility would be welcome in taking into account an
   enriched cooperation.

    3.     The staff very rightly notes that the competitiveness of the Bank as a creditor is very tight
    in Hungary in light of the country's excellent access to financial markets, even since the financial
    turmoil experienced in Asian countries. Quite candidly, they point to the fact that a possible
    removal of the interest waiver would make the Bank "certainly cease to be competitive as a debt
    instrument for Hungary." Thus, 25 basis points would make the difference ...
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not othetwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                2



       In such a context, and keeping in mind the proficient debt management of Hungary, I
believe that the Bank should be much more prepared for the case of a limited lending activity and
prominence of non-lending services. I highly welcome the fact that the Bank's nonfinancial
benefits are recognized and valued by the Hungarian authorities. It is, however, surprising that
the case for initiating discussions on cost-sharing of nonlending services, should lending levels
be much lower than envisaged, is only alluded to, tentatively, at the end of the staffs document.
We already had the opportunity to discuss this issue as regards the cases of Poland and Slovenia.
I believe that, in the case of Hungary, more immediate consideration should be given, in some
circumstances, to a delinking of analytical work and policy advice from ordinary lending
operations. In such a case, participation of the country and, possibly of other partners in
development, in administrative costs incurred should be envisaged.

4.     The Bank's intention to increasingly concentrate its investment activity at the subnational
level is welcome as it fits the needs of Hungary well. I wonder, however, whether staff could
further elaborate on what is meant by the possibility of "testing new ideas and limiting the need
for sovereign guarantees issued by the Government." In particular, in case of direct lending to
sub-sovereignties, it would be important not to make these entities bear the foreign exchange risk
or at least to ensure they will have the capacities to manage it.

5.    Finally, I will make a few comments on the PSAL. I support this operation in welcoming
the adoption of a reform of the pension system that largely restores long-term financial
sustainability. I wonder, however, if this loan provided in the end, after a very lengthy and
strenuous preparation, represents above all a way for the Bank to be remunerated. Here I
naturally refer to the comments I made earlier.

       As for the reform of the pension system, staff should be commended for having depicted
its main elements very clearly in their paper. Three elements are, in my view, particularly
noteworthy. First, it is important to keep in mind, as underlined by the staff, that the only
measure entailing a partial shift from a pay-as-you-go system to a funded scheme, would not per
se engender a positive impact on national savings, contrary to frequent allegations. In the case of
Hungary, the positive impact on national savings is rather to be expected from adjustment
measures applied to the pay-as-you-go system, such as the increase in the retirement age and the
modification in indexation rules. Second, the phasing out of the most important elements of
redistribution within the pension system renders crucial the good functioning of a social
assistance program. In this regard, the Bank's involvement in municipal development which
would help improve administrative capacity to implement such programs is strongly
recommended. Third, it should be recognized that some important uncertainties remain
concerning the real rate of return of the funded schemes and their administrative costs: in this
regard, I wonder whether staff has tested the sensitivity of the baseline assumptions on their
projections.
