                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                                                   87255
                         International Development Association
                           International Finance Corportation
                       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                    CONFIDENTIAL                                                   EDS98-35
                                                                                             January 26, 1998


 Board Meeting of January 27,1998
 Statement by Enzo Del Bufalo

                          HUNGARY: Country Assistance Strategy and
                              Public Sector Adjustment Loan



 We support the proposed CAS document for the Republic of Hungary and commend the Bank
 staff for the preparation of this important docwnent and, in particular, for their extensive public
 consultations. We are pleased to know that the Hungarian authorities are fully committed to the
 reform program initiated in 1995, which has yielded impressive results, evinced by high GDP
 growth rates, and unprecedented private investment, mainly private foreign direct investment.

 Hungary is certainly a transitional economy with a clear commitment to join the European
 Union. We welcome the Bank's efforts in assisting the country to overcome the hurdles that still
 keep it from meeting the EU environmental and competitive standards. We also endorse the
 other Bank's strategic objectives underlined in the CAS, such as, completing the public sector
 reforms initiated in 1995, and the deepening of its understanding of poverty in Hungary; namely,
 the impact of reforms on the poor, but we would like to management's clarification on the
 following specific issues:

 •   Our first concern relates to the financial stability of the country. We concede that Hungary's
     strong commitment to EU membership and the increasing improvement in establishing a
     modem financial system are positive factors. However, considering the current situation in
     the world financial system, we would like to know if Hungary's reform program might be
     affected by the present volatile situation. Although transitional economies are relatively
     protected. from international markets turmoil by their limited integration to those markets,
     they have very fragile fmancial systems that show some of the symptoms that led to the
     financial crisis in Latin America and now in Southeast Asia.

 •   It is stated in the CAS that Hungary's authorities intend to reduce inflation from the current
     levels of 18 percent to a single digit level by the end of the decade. They hope to achieve this
     result through wage agreements and by further decreases in the rate of the pre-announced
     exchange rate crawl, supported by an adequate fiscal policy. But pre-announced exchange
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                2


    rate crawls tend to fix price expectations as much as wage agreements; therefore, both the
    wage agreements and pre-announced exchange rate crawl need to be determined
    simultaneously. The mechanism for doing this is not clear. We would like some explanation
    from management on this point.

•   Finally, The macroeconomic framework for the medium-term scenario is based on a GDP
    growth rate of 4.5%, sustained by rapid growth of investment and exports. In addition, by
    the year 2,000 it is assumed that the current account deficit will reach between 4-4.5% of
    GDP, financed primarily by FDI inflows, as it was the case of the last three years, allowing
    Hungary's external debt as a percent to GDP ratio to continue declining. However, on
    paragraph 11, page 2, it is argued that in recent years, "the strengthening of the current
    account was accompanied by large foreign inflows resulting, in large part, from the
    privatization of state assets." In addition, paragraph 8 states that the privatization program
    was virtually completed by the end of 1997. Henceforth, which sectors will be sufficiently
    attractive to make possible FDI investment rates to finance the current account deficits?

We also welcome the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan, since it is an important
component ofthe Bank's Group Country Assistance Strategy, contributing to the implementation
of the Hungarian Pension Reform Program.
