Report No. PID5813
Project Name                     Hungary-Public Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       HUPE34083
Borrower                         Republic of Hungary
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Jozsef nador ter 2/4
Budapest 1051 - HUNGARY
Tel:    36-1-138-2633
Fax:    36-1-118-0738
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           November 25, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         October 30, 1997
Projected Board Date             January 27, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Hungary has made remarkable progress during the past two years
in achieving a stable macroeconomic environment and in building an
institutional framework conducive to sustained growth and a
successful integration into the European Union. Following the
successful implementation of a stabilization and reform program in
1995 (see below), there has been a noticeable economic recovery,
with 4% GDP growth expected in 1997 and possibly higher a growth
rate in 1998, following growth rates below 1.5% per year between
1994 and 1996.
2.      Significant structural reforms were undertaken in the last two
years, including an acceleration of privatization. The
privatization program was very comprehensive and included the
privatization of most public utilities and of all state-owned banks
to foreign strategic investors. The privatization program will be
completed by end-1997. There have also been significant
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for the financial
sector. The achievements in the structural area have also included
public sector reforms, most importantly the reform of the pension
system supported by this loan, and major improvements in public
financial management and in the budgetary structure.
3.      The Hungarian pension system, financed on a pay-as-you-go
basis, has experienced increasing difficulties as coverage became
almost universal, the retirement age was kept low (60 for men and 55
for women), and a growing proportion of workers qualified for
benefits. The system dependency ratio (the ratio of pensioners to
contributors in the system) increased rapidly from 35 percent in
1980 to 74 percent in 1995, surpassing the ratio of old to young by
a wide margin. This reflected primarily a massive increase in new



young disability pensioners. Replacement rates fell sharply in the
early 1990s, as a result of ad hoc reductions in benefits. This
drop in benefits offset the increase in dependency ratio and the
weak revenue performance, averting major financial difficulties.
However, it also exposed the structural weaknesses of the system.
Despite the reduction in benefits, payroll taxes to finance pensions
are very high (30% of gross wages) and pension spending has remained
above 10% of GDP.   Long run projections show that, without changes
to the system, demographics would lead to ever increasing
expenditures and very large deficits in 15-20 years, even with the
current high level of taxation.
The Country's Adjustment Program
4.      In early 1995, Hungary faced a severe problem of large budget
and current account deficits and ran the risk of a financial crisis.
The Government implemented a stabilization and reform program in
March 1995, which was pursued in 1996 and 1997. Fiscal adjustment
has been significant, with a reduction in the General Government
deficit (excluding privatization revenues) from 8.4% of GDP in 1994
to 3.1% in 1996 brought about by an impressive decline in public
expenditures from 61% of GDP in 1994 to 50% in 1996.     In 1997, the
budget deficit increased to 4.7% of GDP as a result of a policy
decision to convert a quasi-fiscal deficit (higher interest payments
due to past foreign exchange losses of the National Bank of Hungary)
into an explicit fiscal deficit. This measure which was strongly
supported by the IMF and by the Bank.
5.      During the period of adjustment, there was some success in
reducing inflation--with the CPI declining to around 18 percent in
1997. Real wages declined sharply which, combined with increases in
labor productivity, resulted in sharp gains in external
competitiveness. The external situation improved significantly,
with a current account deficit reduced from 9.5% of GDP in 1994 to
about 3.3% in 1997.   The net external debt declined from 46% of GDP
in 1994 to around 30% in 1997.    The stabilization program dampened
GDP growth (1.5 and 1.3% in 1995 and 1996) but did not result in a
recession. The recovery is now under way and the prospects for
sustainable growth are good.
6.      The medium term program of the Government, based on Hungary's
strategy for joining the European Union, aims at completing the
fiscal consolidation process begun in March 1995 and at implementing
the needed structural reforms in the public sector. The objective
is to reconcile a socially acceptable level of private consumption
with a further decline in inflation and a strong external position.
Economic growth would continue to be sustained by strong investment
growth, linked partly to the EU accession process. The current
account deficit would remain at a level of about 4% of GDP, and
would be primarily financed by FDI inflows, as in the last three
years, thus allowing Hungary's external debt to GDP ratio to
continue declining.
The Proposed Loan
-2-



7.      The proposed loan would provide timely support to Hungary to
implement a comprehensive reform of its pension system. It would
provide fast-disbursing funds for balance-of-payments assistance in
support of the Government's reform program.
Objectives
8.      The Government, in cooperation with the Bank, would aim at
maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework within which essential
structural reforms can be implemented, especially those which would
create a more sustainable pension system.
Description
9.      The main elements of the program are   (i) reforms in the
existing public pay-as-you-go pension system aimed at bringing about
a more financially sustainable and actuarially balanced system,
including a gradual increase in the retirement age, a shift by 2001
from wage indexation to a mixed wage-and-price indexation of
benefits, and a tighter link between contributions and benefits;
(ii) the introduction of a fully-funded and privately managed pillar
in the pension system for those workers who decide to join (and
mandatory for new labor force entrants); (iii) the introduction of a
social assistance program for the poor who do not qualify for a
minimum pension; (iv) reforms in the financing of social security
for cash and in-kind benefits administered by the Pension Fund and
by the Health Insurance Fund; and (v) improvements in the
administration of social security, in expenditure control, financial
management and in budget management of the social insurance funds.
Financing
10.     The proposed Bank loan amounts to US$150 million on standard
amortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed rate US
Dollar single currency loans, to be disbursed in one tranche. The
loan, equivalent to an estimated 0.3 percent of GDP, would cover in
part the shortfall resulting from the introduction of the fully-
funded system.
Implementation
11.     The Bank is supporting the implementation of the pension reform
through this adjustment loan and through the existing Pension
Administration and Health Insurance Project (PAHIP). Agreement has
been reached with the Government and the two Self-Governments for
Pension and Health Insurance to use part of the PAHIP funds to
support the administrative establishment of the Pension Fund
Supervision Agency and the technology investments for the management
information systems for the new pension system (pension records,
databases, registry).
Sustainability
12.     The reform will result in major improvements in the long term
sustainability of public finances --and thereby contribute to a more
- 3-



sustainable growth pattern in the economy-- by introducing a tighter
link between contributions and benefits and bringing revenues and
expenditures of the public pension system in balance over the long term.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
13.     The pension system (as well as the health insurance system) has
been supported for the past four years through the Pension
Administration and Health Insurance Project (PAHIP). The
supervision of this project has shown that, while administrative
aspects of social security (including effective contribution
collection, records management, etc) are important, the foremost
requirement for ensuring old age security is to put in place a
system that is financially sustainable over the long run. Given
demographic, economic and labor market trends, this implies
tightening the link between payroll taxes and benefits in the public
pension scheme and favoring long-term contractual savings for
retirement. It also implies improving the administration of social
insurance funds through effective expenditure control, and financial
and budgetary management.
Environmental Aspects
14.     Neither the use of loan proceeds nor the policy framework
supported by the loan raises environmental issues.
Program Objective Categories
15.     The project would contribute to the development of Hungary
through its potential impact on growth by fostering national
savings. It would also have an important institutional impact by
contributing to the development of capital markets. Finally, it
significantly strengthens the social safety net by introducing a new
social assistance program for the low income old age population.
Project Benefits
16.     The reforms are expected to yield major benefits in the long
term. The improvement in the sustainability of public finances
resulting from the reforms would contribute to higher and more
sustainable growth during the EU Accession period. Long term
effects would take place through four main channels. First, higher
national savings resulting from savings in the public sector and
from a fiscal transition to the new pension system which relies
mainly on tax financing, rather than debt financing, in the early
years; second, the development of capital market institutions and
instruments for long term contractual savings; third, lower payroll
taxes which would increase net household earnings and retained
earnings in enterprises; and fourth, the removal of some labor
market distortions, which would create labor market flexibility.
Project Risks
17.     The main risks are related to the implementation of the reform.
Social and political risks which are inherent in a reform of this
- 4 -



scope have been addressed. Several compromises were approved during
the parliamentary debate. They have reduce the budgetary savings to
be generated by the reform but have created more socially acceptable
arrangements. These compromises include mainly the postponement of
indexation change by two years; a lower contribution rate for the
funded component of the system in the first years; an increase in
survivors pensions; and counting maternity and university education
as service years. Implementation-related risks are caused by the
compressed timeframe for the introduction of the second pension
pillar and of systems for contribution collection, current account
management and pension records. The Government is addressing this
issue through its KATOR project and has requested Bank assistance in
the context of the existing PAHIP loan. Other risks are related to
the fact that the supervision framework for the private pension
funds is at an early stage. The Government has put the necessary
budgetary resources to develop this framework and made plans for
training of regulators and supervisors.
Contact Point:          Jean-Jacques Dethier, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2510
Fax: (202) 477-1440
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 5 -



