               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                             87254
                        International Development Association
                          International Finance Corportation
                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                   CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                  EDS98-34
                                                                                            January 26, 1998


  Board Meeting of January 27, 1998
  Statement by Juan L. Cariaga

           Hungary: Country Assistance Strategy and Public Sector Adjustment Loan



         The proposed CAS for Hungary is concise, to the point, well organized, presents its main
  messages with clarity and appropriately links the Bank's instruments to implementation,
  although there are some concerns which we will note

         Hungary continues its transformation into a democratic, free market society. As this
  process continues the Bank can be proud of the lengthy support and cooperation that has existed.
  While Hungary's situation and the context of its efforts are perhaps somewhat sui generis, this
  does not diminish the satisfaction we feel for the progress that has been made.

          One of the most important ingredients of this has been the broad societal support
  mobilized for reform measures. Over and over again the CAS refers to consultations with
  political parties, NGO's, affected groups and organizations, and civil society in general. This
  transparency and the support it provides to a sometimes difficult reform process seems to us to be
  an important factor.

         The progress made since introduction of the emergency stabilization package has indeed
  been impressive, as the CAS notes. Current account and budget deficits are declining. That the
  country's risk rating is now investment grade confirms our views.

          But, while the economy has been largely privatized, important public sector reforms
  remain to be accomplished. The private sector is reported to account for 70% or more of GDP.
  Hungary leads the rest of Central Europe in privatizing state-owned assets. The country has also
  benefited form foreign direct investment, broad support from government donors and large
  private foundation generosity.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                  2


       We, therefore endorse the overall strategy with, however, some specific comments for
consideration that we hope will improve the proposed strategy as well as the Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PSAL).

        We will refer first to the overall strategy and then specifically to the need for further
tightening the compromises reached in the PSAL. Second, we will discuss some transitional
problems of macroeconomic time consistency related to the proposed reduction of inflation.
Third, we will comment on some omissions in the proposed core reforms of the public sector.
Finally, we will comment on the approach to reducing poverty, especially in a group not
considered adequately in the safety net package, namely middle age males with second
generation health problems.

Exit strategy?

        The CAS clearly states that Hungary is a sophisticated, cost conscious borrower that
already has investment grade ratings in the international financial markets, receiving terms
similar to the Bank. It correctly points out that in this case the Bank's comparative advantage is
in policy design and the implementation experience accompanying its lending.

        We were especially and favorably struck by the observation that for Hungary (and
perhaps others) " ... the attractiveness of Bank operations now depends significantly on the
perception of non-financial benefits." This reflects the World Bank Group's perhaps unique
mixture of comparative advantage; this is an opportunity to show how the knowledge bank can
be put to work.

        We fully agree with this approach and believe that the Bank has correctly focused its
program in advancing pending reforms in the public sector and in particular, the reform of the
social security system, where it has ample cross-country experience; and on environmental issues
where it has recently acquired worldwide expertise and where Hungary has demonstrated keen
interest, especially as this is a requisite for accession to the European Union.

        We, therefore concur with the Bank's country assistance strategy for Hungary. Its
emphasis, helping to complete public sector reforms and support Hungary's eventual accession
to the European Union, is correct.

       Nevertheless, we are concerned with the possible lack of leverage for enforcing the
proposed key reforms. For example, the Pension Sector Adjustment Loan basically implements
the proposed reforms over a number of years. On the other hand, it is a single tranche, front
loaded fast disbursing loan. Moreover, the local government program does not have vehicles for
monitoring and enforcing the implementation of the proposed reforms. This area will require
adequate monitoring.
                                                 3




Time consistency of Macroeconomic projections and the reduction of inflation.

       It also seems to us a little risky to use, as the main instrument to reduce inflation, just
wage and exchange rate restraint, precisely at the beginning of a process of pension reform in
which the fiscal deficit is temporarily increasing due to the additional cost of the second pillar.
This suggests that in order to have a sounder strategy to reduce inflation, more emphasis should
be given to monetary policy in the short run. Of course, this could bring some negative
consequences on investment and growth projections, that should also be considered.

Pending reforms in the Public Sector

         The CAS rightly focuses on pending reforms in the public sector. Most of the reforms in
the private sector are already well advanced. Price and trade liberalization, privatization and
financial sector reforms are almost finished. What is left is basically a top-heavy governmental
apparatus which still needs to be reformed and placed in a market like type of operation. This is
understandable for an economy that is coming out of socialism, but should not be delayed any
further.

        Specifically appropriate is the proposed PSAL 's focus on pension reforms. This has
significant positive effects on medium term fiscal sustainability, on national savings, on creating
instruments for term financing and on reducing distortions in the labor market. However, we are
concerned over the potential difficulties for these positive effects to occur. The demographics of
the exercise appear to make it difficult to produce the proposed increase in savings in the
medium term. The population is shrinking, specifically at the middle age range where the
proposed increase in retifement ages was supposed to generate the significant savings in the
medium term. Could staff comment further on this point?

         Nevertheless, the benefits expected from this proposed loan more than compensate for the
risks if the compromises agreed to permit its full implementation. In the case of the proposed
reform of sub national governments, all standard features of the reform are well explained, but
the problem of lack of economies of scale at the municipality level to permit rational
management and planning is not addressed. Some proposal for aggregation at the regional level
should be put forward for these efforts to become more rounded and successful.

Other Observations:

        Most poverty in Hungary is shallow. Recuperation of economic growth through the
implementation of the proposed reforms together with the lock in on reforms with the proposed
accession to the European Union augurs well for sustained growth in Hungary. This should
contribute to eliminating most poverty. In addition, the proposed minimum pension scheme and
the adjustment and better targeting of the disability pension of the proposed PSAL will address
poverty problems of the poorest. However, we would also note there is still a segment of the
population that clearly needs special and specialized attention, namely middle age males with
                                                4


second generation health problems, like alcoholism, bad diet and so forth which show the highest
death rates in the whole population. The proposed health strategies should address these issues.

       We would have appreciated more information on the role of other partners and their
programs and thus a better understanding of how Bank efforts support and contribute overall to
the developmental program.

        We would also support efforts to strengthen markets and market institutions. In that
regard, and recognizing that the IFC and MIGA are to some extent dependent on others seeking
them out, nevertheless we would urge increased activism in these areas, and perhaps especially in
the use of financial intermediaries.

        To summarize, the over-riding goal of Hungarian Government policy is to become a full
European partner, a goal supported by the Bank as well as other participants, believing this
provides for strong, sustainable development. Let me reiterate that the Bank's program
appropriately uses the Bank's comparative advantages in policy design and implementation in
key areas of specialized Bank expertise, such as the social sectors. It is also commendable that
management is addressing the risks of program reversal and of implementation of complex
reforms. This first type of risk is cushioned by the strong political commitment to obtain access
to the European Union and the implementation risks are dealt with by unbinding and better
pacing of the reforms. We therefore would expect positive results from implementation of this
proposed strategy.

       Finally, we would express our appreciation for the extensive work that has produced
these well prepared documents. We also want to wish the Government of Hungary, success with
the implementation of this CAS.
