Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFKIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8212
°ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1109-PAK)
DECEMBER 11, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department 1
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIAtIONS
ATC      -  Apprenticeship Training Center
ATO      -  Apprentice Training Ordinance
CTA      -  Chief Technical Adviser
EMENA    -  Europe, Middle East, North Africa
EQUIPRO  -   Equipment Procurement Branch (ILO)
GoP      -  Government of Pakistan
GTZ      -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Zussamenarbeit
FVTP     -  First Vocational Training Program
IBRD     -  International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA      -  International Development Association
ILO      -  International Labor Organization
NTB      -  National Training Board
NTDI     -  National Training Development Institute
NSTI     -  National Staff Training Institute
NWFP     -  North West Frontier Province
PC-I     -   Planning Commission Form I
PCR      -  Project Completion Report
PEPAC    -  Pakistan Environmental Planning and
Architectural Consultants ,-.
PIU      -  Project Implementation Unit
PTB      -  Provincial Training Board
RVP      -  Regional Vice-President
SAR      -   Staff Appraisal Report
TTC      -  Technical Training Center
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICUAL UE O4T
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oike at DoteiarCGawal
Opetatiom E[vakutahi
December 11, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIREC1ORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  Pakistan - Vocational Training
Proiect (Credit 1109-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Pakistan - Vocational Training Project
(Credit 1109-PAK)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the peformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETXQ1_RIP9RT
PAKISTAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1109-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .................................................          i
Evaluation Summary .ii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .
Project Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                        2
Project Design and Organization.                           2
Project Implementation.                                    4
Project Results.                                           7
Project Sustainability.                                    7
IDA Performance.                                           8
Borrower's Performance.                                    8
Consulting and Agency Services.                            9
Project Documentation Data.                                9
Lessons Learned.                                           9
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .11
Introduction .11
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information
in Part III .11
Comment on Analysis Contained in Part I                   11
Evaluation of IDA's Performance and
Major Lessons Learned ......................            15
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and
Major Lessons Learned .16
Effectiveness of Relationship between
IDA and the Borrower .17
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)                                        Page No.
III.   PROJECT PROFILE AT TIME OF COMPLETION
Related IDA Credits ........      .......................   19
Project Timetable  ........      ........................   20
Credit Disbursements ..........................             21
Project Implementation .......      .....................   23
Project Financing  ........      ........................   24
Pro;ect Results  .........     .........................    25
Status of Credit Covenants ......      ..................   27
Use of IDA Resources ........      ......................   28
LIST OF ANNEXES
A. Status of Civil Works
B. Facts Relating to Procurement of Equipment
C. Organization Charts
D. Course Statistics
E. Skill Standards
F. Instructor Training
G. Key Social Factors in Pakistan
H. Exchange Rates



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1109-PAK)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Vocational
Training Project in Pakistan, for which IDA Credit 1109-PAK, approved on
March 17, 1981, provided SDR 19.7 million (US$43.06 million) for a project
estimated to cost US$43.06 million equivalent.   The project closed on
December 31, 1987, one year after the original closing date, and disburse-
ments against the Credit continued until July 12, 1988, at which time a
remaining balance of SDR 4.03 million (US$5.11 million) was cancelled.
The PCR, of which there are three parts, is based on a report
written by a team of four UNDP consultants on behalf of the Government of
Pakistan and IDA. The consultants visited Pakistan in February/March 1989,
and enjoyed the full cooperation of local authorities.  Their report was
reviewed and finalized by IDA staff.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department.   The
draft report was sent to the Borrower and its agencies for comment on
October 18, 1989. No comments were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRCJECT
(CREDIT llO9-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Credit Agreement 1109-RPK was approved on March 17, 1981, becoming
effective on October 27, 1981.   The Credit was the first specifically
concerned with vocational training, although it was the fifth in a series
designed to support improved standards of education in Pakistan.   The
estimated cost of the Project was US$43.06 million, of which US$25 million
(SDR 19.7 million) was to be provided by Credit 1109-PAK. The actual cost
of the Project was equivalent to SDR 30.59 million of which SDR 15.67
million was provided by the Credit, and SDR 4.03 million was cancelled.
Objectives and Content
The main purpose of the project was to assist the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) in strengthening and expanding skills training, and to
overcome  skilled manpower shortages.  through:   (i) increasing the
capability of the GOP to plan, manage and evaluate training; (ii) improving
the quality and increase the output from vocational trair.ing institutions
by about 10,000 a year; and (iii) increasing the productivity of employed
workers. The Project included the development of a National Training Be- -d
(NTB) and four   Provincial Training Boards (PTB), a National Training
Development Institute (NTDI), equipping 37 training centers (31 existing
and 6 new), a training program for 640 instructors (coupled with improved
pay scales) and 2,800 in-plant training personnel, with technical
assistance financed by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
(US$2.58 million) aimed at improving curricula and trade standards.   The
involvement of employers in the National Vocational Training System was
seen as a key objective.   A Monitoring and Evaluation system was to be
developed.
Imglementation ExDerience
Implementation was uneven.  There were delays in the Civil Works
program, which produced adverse downstream effects.   Many staff appoint-
ments were behind schedule, and although the instructor training program
was achieved in numerical terms, the quality of instructors was and remains
a critical problem.   The involvement of employers proved more difficult
than anticipated, which jeopardized the introduction of shorter t:aining
programs designed to increase trainee output and reduce costs. More signi-
ficantly, it resulted in the almost total divorce of the training system
from industrial reality.



- iii -
Lack of experienced NTB and PTB staff was another factor which
adversely affected project implementation, which took longer than planned
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).   The original completion date was
extended by a year, which compensated for a slow start, and allowed accele-
rated progress during the last year of project implementation. The period
of implementation coincided with a particularly difficult period for the
GOP, during which a general slackening of the labour market, totally
unforeseen in 1981, prejudiced a more successful outcome.
Results
The Project achieved a number of the original objectives,
including: establishment of an operational NTB, which is developing working
relationships with the PTBs; creation of the NTDI which is progressively
developing its potential in curricula publication, trade testing, and
instructional material; the production of curricula for 32 trades, coupled
with instructional manuals and a trade testing system, all overseen by the
NTB and four associated PTBs; instructor training courses by NSTI, with the
target figure 640 for trained instructors being exceeded by 69; the
fellowship program training of 79 counterpart staff out of a proposed 82;
good progress in the modernization and extension of the TTCs, most of which
had been completed (34 out of 37) with the remainder due for completion in
1989. Trainee output also increased by 6,500 per year. On the other hand,
the in-plant training program was ineffective (with only 374 trained out of
a planned 2,800) and was virtually abandoned; the Apprentice Advisory
Service did not produce the planned increase in output from 4,000 to
10,000, due to serious staff shortages below Assistant Director level,
shortage of transportation for visits to enterprises and the non-compliance
of employers with the Apprentice Training Ordinance (ATO); development of
the monitoring and evaluation system did not succeed because information
and data flows were late and inaccurate.
Sustainability
Sustainability of the project benefits will depend on the GOP's
ability to meet recurrent costs of training materials at the appropriate
level, staff the institutions effectively, and implement an effective
preventive maintenance program both for the TTC buildings and training
equipment. It is recommended that each PTB should appoint a civil engineer
with responsibility to oversee the civil works maintenance program and a
workshop superintendent responsible for equipment installation and main-
tenance.   In a broader context, sustainability ultimately should depend
upon the responsiveness of the vocational training system to the needs of
the labor market. As yet this remains a somewhat elusive goal.
Findings and Recommendations
The full impact of the Project has yet to be achieved, principally
due to delays in the production and distribution of skill standards,
instructor and trainee manuals, testing procedures and their adoption in
the TTCs.  It is recommended that the NTDI should be fully resourced, to
strengthen its role within the system and to improve quality standards.



- iv -
The quality of the vocational training remains weak due to
inadequately trained instructors, poor maintenance standards, non-
innovative teaching methods and very limited participation of employers.
It is recommended that instructor training be accelerated and improved, and
that the cooperation of employers be actively sought to plovide industrial
experience for the instructors.
Meetings of the NTB and PTBs have been irregular and infrequent,
and   induscrial employer and employee participation has been low.   The
result is that they are regarded by industry as low profile bodies, whose
functions are little known or understood and not related to industrial
needs. It is recommended that the Boards should be required to become more
dynamic, publicize their functions more widely and hold regular meetings
with significant policy oriented agendas. In addition, the composition of
the Boards should be reviewed with the objective of increasing employer and
employee membership and thus making them more credible to industry.
There is only limited participation from employers in training,
their knowledge of the training system is scanty and their use of it
negligible.   This lack of employer support is manifested throughout the
whole system from the NTB to training center, and is a serious handicap to
the development of an effcctive vocational training system.  Without this
essential employer support the system will lose relevance and the qualified
trainees produced will be of low value. It is recommended that policies be
developed to encourage employer participation in training activities at
policy, advisory and employment levels.
The NTB has not achieved the autonomous status as proposed at
appraisal and is functioning as a part of National and Provincial
Secretariats with wider concerns then training. The result is that respon-
sibilities for decision making are not always clear (e.g., for site acqui-
sition, construction and mairntenance of training centers) and decisions are
delayed.   Similarly, the NTB has not exercised the coordinating role for
all vocational training as envisaged in the training ordinance    It is
recommended that the NTB should be established as an independent autonomous
policy making body, with the PTBs as its executing agencies.
Low utilization rates of the available training places for some
trades (e.g., plumbing, carpentry and welding) is a problem in some
centers,  although other courses are fully enrolled.   There is a high
trainee drop out rate which is not compensated for by a flexible multiple
entry system designed to make good the losses.   It is recommended that
unpopular programs should be dropped to avoid waste of resources, and that
the system should be more flexible in operation and more responsive to
labor market needs.   The length of courses should be reviewed, so that
course standards are measu..ed more by the skills they impart rather than
the course duration.
The PCR takes the opportunity to note that there are also problems
which have recurred throughout the last three IDA-assisted projects.   A
review of PCRs for the Third and Fourth Educational Projects revealed that
there have been consistent problems regarding:   (1) The risks to Project



. v -
implementation under disturbed country conditions (in Cr. 1109-PAR to civil
works in Sind Province); (ii) Delays in site acquisition and construction,
coupled with poor design; (iii) Management weaknesses arising from poor
identity of Project Management, poor coordination, weak supervision and
ineffective monitoring and evaluation; (iv) Staffing problems, arising from
delayed appointment and poor quality performance; (v) Maintenance of
Project facilities.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1109-PAK)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
1.1           Project Name - First Vocational Training Project
Credit No.   - Cr. 1109-PAK
RVP Unit     - EMENA Region
Country      - ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Sector       - EDUCATION
Sub-Sector   - VOCATIONAL TRAINING
PRO_JECT BACKGROUND
1.2      The Project was the fifth in a series designed to raise educa-
tional and skill standards at all levels, but the first project concerned
uniquely with industrial training.   It was prepared by the Ministry of
Labor and Manpower with ILO assistance.   The Project was appraised in
November 1979 but the final forml/ of the Project was determined by a post-
appraisal mission report in June 1980, recommending a credit of US$25
million (SDR 19.7 million) over five years, to improve and expand indus-
trial training to meet quantified skill shortages. The Project was nego-
tiated in January 1981. The Credit Agreement was signed on April 24, 1981
and became effective October 27,  1981.   The Project supported the
Government's five year Vocational Training Plan for the period 1978-83,
which proposed:   (a) the restructuring of the management system to
establish strong linkages with Provincial Governments and employers; (b)
the reorganizing of the training delivery system with emphasis on increased
use of existing facilities through double shifts and short courses; and (c)
the improvement of the skill level of trainees by upgrading instructors and
providing increased training materials.   In March 1980, the Government
enacted the National Manpower Ordinance, which restructured the management
system to correct past deficiencies.   The Ordinance created a National
Training Board (NTB) and Provincial Training Boards (PTBs), (which included
representatives of Federal and Provincial Government ministries and depart-
ments, industry, labor and private training organizations), to be respon-
sible for planning, financing, setting of standards and implementation of
training programs.   At the time of Appraisal there was an estimated
national skills shortage of about 30,000 per annum, due to industrial
/  Two components--rural training to enhance self employment, and women's
training--were dropped, but subsequently included in the Second
Vocational Training Project (Cr. 1670-PAK).



2-
growth, an increase in self-employment and emigration for work to the Gulf
States. Clo-ing this skills gap was expected to assist the GOP's policy of
import substitution, accelerate downstream developments arising from new
steel making capability, and help to relieve pressure on the country's
foreign exchange requirement.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.3      The Project had three objectives:   (i) to help the Government
plan, manage and evaluate skill training; (ii) to improve the quality and
increase the output from vocatiotial training centers by about 10,000 p.a.
(i.e., to 20,000 p.a.); (iii) to improve the productivity of employed
workers.
1.4      The components within the Project comprised:   Mi) furniture and
equipment for one National and four Provincial Training Board Secretariats;
(ii) the construction, furniture and equipment for the National Training
Development Institute (NTDI), six new vocational training centers, and the
re-equipment of 31 existing centers; (iii) consumable training materials
for NTDI and all training centers; (iv) incremental staff salaries for all
project instructional staff; (v) training for 640 instructors; (vi) estab-
lishment of an In-Plant Training Advisory Service, and Apprentice Advisory
Service; (vii) 2,800 training personnel for in-plant training; (viii) a
technical assistance program, finatnced by UNDP with the International Labor
Organization (ILO) as the executor; (ix) a monitoring and evaluation
system.
1.5      The NTDI was to develop trade standards,  curricula,  and trade
testing as the qualitative measure of output.  Employer participation was
seen as an essential to all training components of the Project, as contrib-
utors to policy making on the NTB and PTBs, as members of advisory commit-
tees, as advisers on standards and curricula, and above all as providers of
structured in-plant training, to align training more closely with the labor
market, and to complement proposed shorter institutional programs with
supervise.' in-plant training. Employers had an important role in reducing
the cost of initial training by the introduction of shorter off-the-job
programs which would increase throughput.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.6      The Project aimed to meet quantified needs for skilled and semi-
skilled labor. It was based on limited Pakistani experience of vocational
training dating from 1961, notably in Punjab.   Upgrading of 31 existing
training centers, and creation of six new ones, was based on this earlier
in- country experience. There was experience of curricular development in
the Punjab Development Cell and of productive instructor training in
Lahore.
1.7      The Labor Market.  The relationship of training provision to labor
market needs was not closely analyzed.   Given the complex nature of the
labor market in Pakistan this is not surprising. The labor market is three
dimensional, offering conventional job prospects, self employment or
emigrant opportunities with variances wide enough to permit only a broad
brush analysis, especially as the position is further complicated by the



- 3 -
widespread use by employers of contract labor in the 'informal' market.
Programs were continued as a matter of routine rather than on the basis of
analyzed labor market opportunities.
1.8      The In-Plant Training component depended on the understanding and
goodwill of employers. Employer participation on the scale required repre-
sented an innovative aspect of the Project, the implications of which were
not recognized either by IDA or the NTB. There was a need to set up mecha-
nisms for employer involvement in the development of in-plant training,
which was not done.
1.9      Ouality control factors such as testing of standards and up-dating
curricula were not new to Pakistan but the system was not functioning well
and there was a clear need for a major well resourced effort to achieve an
improvement in standards and curricula.
1.10     Understanding the Project.   Concepts needed to be shared and
understood and agreed between IDA and the borrower if the Project was to
succeed. Appraisal studies consistently recommended increased efficiencies
and utilization, and made proposals to achieve them; the borrower tended to
follow custom and practice.   Some of the concepts underlying the Project
were never implemented. The use of shorter training programs is the most
prominent example. The imbalance between components resulted in some lack
of coherence within the Project as a whole.
1.11     Scope and Scale.  The Project represented a major advance within
the National Vocational Training System.   The scope and scale of the
Project was to upgrade the existing 31 training centers and to construct
and equip 6 additional centers. The development of the NTB and PTBs as an
institutional training infrastructure was a key objective of the Project.
The Government shared the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) perception that
quality needed to be improved.   To start from what already existed was
sensible and pragmatic. At the time of the Project's inception the magni-
tude of the skills 'gap' was so large that it could not be met by existing
Project assets, training and resources.  That the labor market the struc-
tures were designed to meet changed due to external factors was not fore-
seeable, and in any case it does not invalidate the need for a serviceable
training infrastructure.   It does argue the case for a flexible system
capable of responding to changing needs. The one component which presented
problems of scale and quality was instructor training. This was foreseen
in the SAR and remedial steps were taken (the 'salary structure' component
was implemented), but the position in terms of well experienced and trained
instructors remains critical.   Some instructors are good but most fall
below an adequate standard, and there is a continuing need for in-service
training of this category.
1.12     PreDaration and Timing.   The Project was thoroughly prepared.
Four separate studies progressively refined the program to ensure it was a
manageable entity.   Project planning was comprehensive and included cost
analyses, training center capacities, projected outputs and staff require-
ments. Timeframes were set for the key components but were perhaps overly
optimistic.  In the event, five years was insufficient for completion and
the six years it took to achieve most of the Project objectives was not
unreasonably long. The timing of the Project was a response to GOP needs



- 4 -
and was justified by the industrialization program and labor market charac-
teristics of the previous decade.   In any case a net addition of 10,000
p.a. to the skill stock, particularly related to local demand, temained a
realistic target.   The main thrust of the Project was to modernize the
vocational training infrastructure as a long term economic investment.
1.13     Implementation Responsibilities were clear from the planning
stage, and the agencies concerned (UNDP, ILO) discharged them effectively.
The main effect of discrete roles for the participating agencies was to
address individual Project components rather than a coherent whole.  Some
components (e.g., Technical Assistance) started late. Others (e.g., curri-
cular development) were compressed and hurried, with the result that oppor-
tunities for counterpart staff training were lost.   Delays in staff
appointments adversely affected several components, notably Monitoring and
Evaluation, Apprentice Supervisory work, and the role of the NTDI.
1.14     Success.  The successes of the Project were due to sound planning,
the determination of GOP to demonstrate its commitment to a modernized and
extended vocational training system, and to the choice of agencies with a
proven record as executors of the plan. The major success was the creation
of a National (NTB) and Provincial (PTB) training network supported by
well- equipped training centers with long term potential as a national
asset.
1.15     Shortcomings.   In relation to some components the shortcomings
were serious. Apprentice Training and In-plant Training, depending as they
did on employer support and participation which was not forthcoming, were
notable failures.   Apprentice numbers fell short because the Apprentice
Training Ordinance was not rigorously applied, and reforms to render its
application more effective were postponed. In one major and critical res-
pect the planning design was not realized because the NTB did not achieve
the autonomous status which it should have enjoyed. Its management func-
tions were restricted by unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and lack of
coordination, between the NTB and the Ministry of Labor, Manpower and
Overseas Pakistanis. These procedures caused difficulties in defining
management's functions and resulted in unnecessary delays to progress,
particularly in staff recruitment. The lack of autonomy of the PTBs was
similarly affected, inhibiting the integration of the work of the NTB and
the PTBs.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.16     The Project's implementation was uneven.   The following mixed
results were achieved:  (i) a management system vested in the NTB and its
associated PTBs whose potential will be fully realized as it increases its
capacity, resources and experience; (ii) a training infrastructure in terms
of buildings and equipment potentially capable of reaching Project targets,
(e.g., currently achieved trainee output 6,500 against 10,000 target);
(iii) improved training standards represented by published national curri-
cula, skill standards, and trade testing, coupled with instructional
manuals; however, all need better distribution, use and publicity to reach
full effectiveness; (iv) an instructor training capability which exceeded
the Project target of training 640 instructors; however, many instructors
have not had the benefit of structured training, and their development to



- 5 -
acceptable standards is a major priority; (v) the NTDI, with responsibility
for curricular developu4ent, training standards, instructor competence and
training media development, which will be a national center of excellence
an, the focus of quality standards within the National Vocational Training
System; however, at present it is too understaffed and underresourced to
exercise its authority on the system; (vi) the Fellowship Program trained
79 counterpart staff, although some nominations appear to have been made on
the basis of seniority, rather than the needs of counterpart staff
training; it is essential that fellowships for counterpart training be
allocated according to job training needs and job specification.
1.17     The following objectives were not achieved:  (i) an effective and
systematic monitoring and evaluation system was not applied, in part
because of uncertainty about whose responsibility it was, no significant
resource was allocated to NTDI, and the transfer of responsibility to it
will be nominal unless the unit is strengthened; (ii) a major weakness has
been the failure to interest employers in the training scheme or its
products, employers are under-represented on the Training Boards, do not
exercise much influence on advisory committees, and in the public sector
their response to the Apprentice Training Ordinance (ATO) is legalistic
rather than enthusiastic.  These views on employer attitudes are based on
in-plant interviews.   Only in some private sector companies was training
undertaken as an investment for the future; in-plant tra ning, which if
implemented would reduce trainee costs, and if properly supervised, improve
standards, has not taken off; (iii) the proposal to extend and supervise
apprentice training is dormant.   The Assistant Directors for Apprentice
Training are enthusiastic, but without staff support (except in Punjab)
they cannot develop the progranI.  There are about 5,000 apprentices under
training, primarily in Punjab and Sind, against a projected target of
10,000.  The planned staff appointments have not been made, nor is trans-
port available for the few in post; (iv) the in-plant supervisory training
program based on a modular training system appears to have been aborted
after 340 out of a targeted 2,800 had been trained. There is no evidence
on which to judge the 'multiplier' effect which was anticipated as a
product of the program.
1.18     The major risk that sufficient instructors of adequate quality
would not be available was foreseen and remedial action was taken in deve-
loping a new salary structure to attract and retain instructors.   Either
unforeseen, or undisclosed in the appraisal stage, was the reluctance of
employers to adopt the scheme.   There was a widely held view among
employers that if the Government did not accept responsibility for training
nobody else was likely to.  If this view is allowed to persist vocational
training will become the victim of bureaucratic procedures and less rele-
vant to the needs of the real world. The extension of the closing date to
December 1987 enabled the NTB to achieve many of the Project objectives.
The Project benefited from positive recommendation and action plans pro-
posed by IDA supervision missions. Failure to amend the ATO, the general
lack of publicity for the Project, and the failure to adopt shorter pro-
grams as the SAR proposed, if only on a pilot basis, had a negative effect.
1.19     Civil Works Implementation.  The SAR est.mated full implementation
at 3.5 years from the credit effectiveness date. The implementation sche-
dule (Table 3.4) shows that there were delays of up to 44 months for com-
pletion of civil works.   At Project closing (December 31, 1987), 100



- 6 -
percent of renovation and extension work and 83 percent of construction of
new centers weie completed.  The delays were due to specific inadequacies
in the performance of the organizations involved and included: (i) late
selection and unsuitability of some sites; (ii) changes in structural
design by the Consultant; (iii) unsatisfactory performance, mismanagement
and error in construction by contractors; (iv) termination of some
contracts and delays in the selection of new contractors; (v) a law and
order sitation (in Sind); (vi) bad weather in Baluchistan at the crucial
stage of construction; tvii) lack of proper supervision and monitoring of
progress by the Consultant; and (viii) late and insufficient communication
between NTB, PTBs and the Consultant to resolve emerging problems.
1.20     Delays apart, the Civil Works program suffered from lack of co-
operation between the NTB, the PTBs and the Consultant,  the quality of
those professional services was not good enough to ensure that the program
was satisfactorily implemented.   There should have been greater attention
given to the selection of contractors and the monitoring of their activi-
ties, to the assignment of qualified and experienced supervisory staff, and
to the establishment of a comprehensive program of supervision.
1.21     Designs which were functional and structurally sound suffered from
many deficiencies in architectural details (for example, poor drainage),
and in finishing, e.g., sub-standard fittings.  Contract documents, speci-
fications and bills of quantities were ambiguous and inconsistent with the
drawings.
1.22     Tendering Procedures, evaluation of bids and selection of contrac-
tors was in conformity with conventional practice. Unit prices and overall
costs quoted by contractors were in accordance with prevailing rates.
1.23     Construction and Contractors' Performance.  The overall quality of
construction is generally poor, which is in part attributable to lack of
permanent, qualified and experienced field supervisors on construction
sites. Inexperienced, non-qualified temporary staff were assigned to site
inspection duties. The ertent and scope of their responsibilities were not
properly defined, with the result that the quality of workmanship suffered
badly.
1.24     Maincenance.   There was no provision for maintenance in the
budget, which apart from resulting in some deterioration, led to arguments
about owrership as between NTB and the PTBs.
1.25     Lessons learned show the need for (i) improvement in the quality
of consultant work; (ii) strict adherence to time, labor and material
schedules; (iii) greater attention to the selection of the qualified con-
tractors and monitoring of their activities, and (iv)  the assignment of
qualified and experienced supervisory staff with a comprehensive program of
supervision.
1.26     Equipment.   The Government's decision to entrust the equipment
identification and procurement to EQUIPRO was well judged as was the deci-
sion to have EQUIPRO train Pakistani staff.   Equipment procurement was
efficient, prompt and cost effective.   EQUIPRO were able to obtain dis-
counts that would not have been available to the Government had they



conducted the procurement operation themselves.   The total value of the
equipment to be procured was estimated to be US$11,432,318.   The finally
evaluated and approved figure was US$9,183,797 and a fee of US$741,397
charged by EQIJIPRO for their procurement services. Some centers were com-
pleted late, causing equipment to remain in containers.  In retrospect the
ordering of equipment for centers that were delayed could have been held
back. It would have avoided equipment deterioration in containers, un-
packed and un-checked.   The problem should be addressed in the Second
Project.
PROJECT RESULTS
1.27     The Project largely achieved its physical objectives;  in some
components it reached numerical objectives (see para. 1.16).  In terms of
management effectiveness the NTB does not appear to operate as an autono-
mous body.   It is part of a network in which responsibilities are not
easily identified.   There is need for better planning, more systematic
communication, better allocation and delivery of resources, remedial action
to meet targets, and the exercise of authority when required. NTB's work
would be better known if it improved information flows to, and linkages
between schools, training centers, employment exchanges and employers.
Vocational guidance officers should have a role in the operation of the
proposed Training and Employment Units.
1.28     Changes in Obiectives.  None of the main objectives changed after
the Credit Agreement was signed although there were some serious delays in
implementation.  But these were reactions to particular situations rather
than intentional changes to the program. There were some minor financial
re-allocations which did not affect the main thrust of the Project.
1.29     Impact of Project.  The Project must be judged primarily as a long
term investment, the value of which will be enhanced as the Second Project
proceeds, and weaknesses in the First are remedied.  In the shorter term
the Project testifies to the GOP commitment to accelerate industrializa-
tion, and aims at quality standards designed to improve the competitiveness
of industrial products.   It has established a viable vocational training
network, and the balance of evidence is that most training opportunities
are utilized by trainees. There is a measurable contribution to the skills
stock (currently 16,500, with short term potential of teaching 20,000 p.a.,
which could be higher if short programs are introduced). The evidence from
reports on the employment of TC graduates is conflicting, some reports
indicate an employment of about 65 percent while others show only 25
percent. It is likely that only about 40 percent or less of the graduates
gain employment immediately after leaving the TC.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.30     For the next decade the many results of the Project's objectives
will be continued with the Second Project. In the longer term, if training
costs are to be contained, there will be a need to achieve a better balance
between the front-end loading of institutional training in the centers, and
structured in-plant training.  Maintenance and recurrent costs could also
be a problem. The outcome will depend on the ability of GOP, in pursuing
its planned objective of encouraging the private sector to recognize the



- 8 -
benefit of publicly provided training. The risks will be reduced if some
means can be found of endowing employers with a sense of ownership of the
system, which might well imply the re-consideration of methods to gain
employer compliance with the Apprenticeship training Ordinance. The allo-
cation of well trained staff to in-plant training will be an important
factor.  Realizing the Project's full potential is prejudiced by too many
instructors of low calibre, a high drop out rate in some programs, and
serious underutilization in the so-called unpopular courses.   These are
problems which, if given the right priority, should be remediable within
the life of the Second Project.
IDA PERFORMANCE
1.31     The main strength of IDA's performance was in the preparatory
work, which was a realistic assessment of the Project.   The instructor
supply problem was recognized, remedial steps proposed and taken but,
although quality remained a problem, additional measures were not proposed.
IDA's judgement about the readiness of employers to participate may have
been too optimistic. It was not questioned by the GOP, and it is arguable
that if more managerial resource and legal sanctions had been employed,
the problem might have been less serious.  During the supervision phase,
IDA's analysis of progress was good, and the Project was seen to be moving
forward in relation to most of the components. Where project progress was
slow, notably in the introduction of short pre-entry courses, in not
setting up the Apprentice Advisory Service, and in not developing the In-
Plant Training, components seemed to lag to the point of not being
seriously pursued.   On balance IDA settled for the art of the possible,
which was more constructive than pointless insistence on the apparently
unattainable.  The main lessons learned are:  projects should be assessed
as coherent entities rather than as an assemblage of components; and there
should be a major Project mid-term evaluation to determine whether Credit
components which appeared viable at the planning stage retain their vali-
dity and practicability at the mid-term point of the Project, and Credit
Agreement amendments suggested accordingly.   In Civil Works, IDA's role
during project identification, project preparation and the appraisal pro-
cess was satisfactory.   Technical advice was provided by IDA supervision
staff.    Weaknesses in implementation were discussed with the government,
but did not result in pressure being exerted to insure that recommendations
were carried out by the Consultant and the contractors.  Timing and fre-
quency of supervision missions were satisfactory with missions totaling
56 staff weeks in the period of December 1981, to January 1988. The ser-
vices of a full-time architect/engineer as technical advisor to coordinate
the activities of NTB, PTBs and Consultant was helpful.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.32     GOP sought to strengthen its commitment to increased vocational
training, and set out with a clear view of requirements. The GOP set up a
dedicated management system embracing Federal and Provincial agencies as
the major preparatory action of the Project and enlisted the aid of well
tried agencies. The main weakness of the Borrower's performance was in not
enabling the NTB to operate with the degree of autonomy that the National
Training legislation intended.



1.33     The Borrower's responsibilities for the mechanical installation of
the equipment was satisfactorily executed.   The electrical installation
leaves much to be desired and in many instances is a potential source of
danger where cables are left without armour protection or the armour is not
properly connected. This is highly undesirable in a training environment.
No form of regular maintenance is followed.   This needs correcting.
Operation manuals and spare parts lists are essential and are normally
supplied by manufacturers. Good practice demands that this data is always
available for the use of workshop staff.
CONSULTING AND AGENCY SERVICES
1.34     The Project was supported by a Technical Assistance component of
US$2.58 million provided by the UNDP and executed by the ILO.  This in-
volved the provision of international and national consultants in-country
and a programme of Fellowship training provided by the International Center
for Advanced Technical and Vocational Training, Turin. International con-
sultants were provided as Chief Technical Adviser (CTA) and for expert
assistance to In-Plant Training, Curriculum Development, Learning Media
Design, Trade Standards and Testing, and Monitoring and Evaluation.
Pakistan national consultants were employed to assist developments includ-
ing Apprenticeship Training, In-Plant Training, Equipment Installation, and
Technical Translation. Some inputs contributed greatly to the successes of
the Project, particularly the guidance and coordination provided by the
CTA, the publication of 32 Skill Standards and Training Specifications,
Curricular Development,  Trade Testing,  and Instructor Training and
Development. Seventy nine (of 82 planned) staff of the National Vocational
Training Project were trained under fellowship programmes conducted by the
ILO Center in Turin. These programmes comprised Educational Technology for
Trainers of Instructors, the Management of Provincial Vocational Training
Institutions and the Administration of Vocational Training Systems.   On
their return to Pakistan the trained staff made significant contributions
to the development of the training system, in these particular skills.
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION DATA
1.35     The Project was fully documented both as to purpose and method.
The SAR developed from studies originating as early as 1978, was a well
prepared document, and remained the key reference point for Credit
components throughout the Project. There was ample material available for
tne preparation of the PCR, made available from IDA, GOP Agency
Representatives, and the office of the CTA in Islamabad. A better deve-
loped Monitoring and Evaluation system would have brought together statis-
tical data which exists in fragmented form in the Training Centers, e.g.
enrollments, drop outs, utilization rates and employment prospects for
trainees.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.36     Management and organization of the project suffered from lack of
definition of the responsibilities assigned to the various agencies
involved.   In this project availability of funds, selection of building
sites and award of contracts were all delayed due to some factors outside
the control of the implementing agency (NTB). The lesson learned is that



- 10 -
Government project implementing units need to be free of protracted bureau-
cratic procedures so that project funds can be utilized in a timely
fashion.   To achievc successful and timely project implementation, it is
necessary to determine, early in th- project cycle, the full commitment of
the Government to the scheduled implementation plan.   Another lesson
learned is that monitoring and evaluation units need to be established at
the commencement of a project, so that feedback may be obtained during the
implementation period, in order that appropriate remedial actions may be
taken.
1.37     Attainment of project objectives was delayed due to lack of:  (i)
adequately trained instructors;  (ii) new curricula;  (iii) instructor and
trainee guidance notes; (iv) national standards of skill competencies; and
(v) instructional support material.  The lesson learned is that these sup-
port items, particularly trained instructors, need to be produced at an
early stage of a project implementation cycle. The implication is that an
adequately staffed and equipped unit should be established at or before
project effectiveness in order to accomplish the above objectives.
1.38     A project of this nature relies heavily on industrial employer and
employee support, particularly for In-Plant and Apprenticeship Training.
The lesson learned is that it is essential to establish industrial employer
commitment to the scheme before implementation. This could be achieved by
better publicity for the proposed schemes, greater contact between
Government and employers and assuring that Government officers responsible
for these aspects of training are sufficient in number, suitably trained
and provided with adequate means of transportation for frequent visits to
industrial enterprises. The real involvement of employers (and employees)
in the policy and decision making committees and councils of the Government
department is essential if industry is to contribute to Government training
schemes.
1.39     The civil works component was seriously delayed in this project
due to delays in site acquisition, poor initial designs, poor supervision
and delays in construction. The lesson learned is that it is necessary to
(i) define more clearly by contract and otherwise taie specific responsibi-
lities of involved parties; (ii) ensure the supply of sufficient and
suitably qualified staff for supervision, (iii) supervise more closely
construction work and (iv)  ensure closer collaboration between National
and Provincial (or Regional) Governments.
1.40     The use of an equipment procurement agency for implementation of
the equipment component proved to be very satisfactory not only ensuring
suitable equipment, timely delivery and adequate installation but also
considerable cost savings.   The lesson learned is that, contracting such
agencies greatly increases the effi.iency of equipment procurement. There
is a need for properly managed regular maintenance of equipment, adequate
provision of spare parts and operating manuals to keep equipment service-
able.   A lesson learned is that regular maintenance schedules should be
established when equipment is supplied and that implementing agencies
should carefully review procedures for pre-qualifying suppliers and also
ensure that inspection procedures for equipment are followed.



- 11 -
1.41     Another lesson learned is that a complex training project of this
nature requires a very high degree of supervision, so that potential prob-
lems may be recotaized at an earlier stage and that appropriate remedial
action may be taken.
PAgT II2/
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
2.1      The Project needs to be assessed in relation to the political and
economic background of the decade 1978-1988, which embraces the beginning
and the end of the Project.   The conflict in Afghanistan added to
Pakistan's commitments, and the resulting refugee problem had a direct
impact on sectors of the labor market.   The Iran/Iraq war and falling
demand in the Gulf States reduced the emigrant labor flow.   Industrial
growth slowed,  in part due to political uncertainties.   The country
suffered an adverse trade balance during the period. A general consequence
of these factors was a slackening of the domestic labor market. The expec-
tation that skill shortages would persist in an acute form was not ful-
filled, nor were hopes for sustained industrial growth. In the Northwest
Frontier Province (NWFP) there were industrial closures.  M?k.e closely
related to vocational training was the poor response from employers to the
Apprentice Training Ordinance, which reduced a target of 10,000 apprentices
a year to about 5,000. In 1979 only 279 companies out of a potential 6,000
participated.
ADEOUACY AND ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION IN PART. III
2.2      The Government of Pakistan recognizes that the analysis and tabu-
lations in Part III accurately represent the key factors relating to the
implementation of the Project.
COMMENT ON ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART I
2.3      It should be stressed that the Government did not contest the
validity of the key components built into the Project. Where failure to
meet targets or to comply with Covenants occurred, the reasons arose from
the difficulties inherent in particular problems, rather than from any
unwillingness to accept the validity of the solutions proposed. The lack
of participation by employers, on which much depended, was not foreseen;
nor was the slowdown in industrial growth, and consequent slackness in the
labor market. The Government, despite the benefits of CR-1109, faced the
problem of developing training from an industrial base during recession.
In the circumstances it is hardly surprising that the emphasis remained on
institutional training, which tended to make training an extension of
government services rather than a matter of employers' self interest. The
2/ Part II was prepared by the UNDP team, on behalf of GOP, following
extensive interviews and consultations at Federal and Provincial
levels.



- 12 -
Government's current policy of encouraging private industry may pay divi-
dends in this respect, but given the experience of the Project, tangible
evidence of growing cooperation from employers would be encouraging. Mean-
while, there is a price to be paid in courses which are arguably too long,
some of which are not closely related to market needs and in which costs
are too high and quality too low.
2.4      The Oualitv  Factor.  Improving the quality of training remains the
most pressing problem.   The completion of the physical aspects of the
Project should allow more managerial resources to be devoted to tl:e NTDI
and NSTI whose potential contribution will influence the quality of train-
ing content and methodology and their better delivery through impx'ved
instructor training.  The Project improved steadily and towards the close
showed signs of recovery from a slow start, although it was not possible to
make up for hold ups due to delaying budget expenditure and consequent
delays to authorized staff appointments.
2.5      The NTB was not as free to operate as was intended by the legisla-
tion.  This was due to established central government controls and proce-
dures not readily adjustable to meet the needs of the NTB's project manage-
ment.   The roles and responsibilit'es of the Federal authorities in
relation to the NTB and the PTBs need reviewing to ensure that national
training activities are effectively coordinated and made free from unne-
cessary bureaucratic procedures.   This should contribute to the national
training effort being more relevant and responsive to industry's needs.
2.6      Civil Works.   The Civil Works component of the Project was
generally satisfactory, except for major delays in Sind and Baluchistan.
In Sind a law and order situation was a factor causing two years' delay.
Poor performance by the contractors resulted in re-tendering in two
sectors. Bad weather at critical stages of construction caused some delay
in Baluchistan.   More generally, the late acquisition of sites due to
delayed funding, lack of proper supervision by consultants and mismanage-
ment by the contractors contributed to hold ups in the program, from most
of which recovery was possible.
2.7      Capable and well qualified staff were appointed to the Project
implementation units of the Government and good relations maintained with
IDA staff.   PEPAC were used for design and supervision of the program,
providing the Government with professional  central control.   IDA
Supervision Reports were brought to the attention of the Government units
involved and the Report recommendations carried out. The engagement of a
full time civil engineer as technical adviser and coordinator of IDA and
NTB proved helpful and it is expected that better results will be achieved
in future, particularly in design, supervision, the preparation of building
documentation and drawings and the selection of contractors.
2.8      Eguipment.   The Government's decision to engage the services of
EQUIPRO to identify and procure equipment for the project proved both
satisfactory and cost-effective.  The supply of such a large quantity of
equipment within a relatively short tima scale in compliance with the IDA
Guidelines required expertise that the Government did not possess.   The
choice of EQUIPRO to perform this task can be regarded as one of the suc-
cesses of the project. Additionally EQUIPRO trained Government staff.



- 13 *
2.9      EQUIPRO started operations promptly after signing the agreement
and quickly established the working relationship with both NTB and PTB's
necessary to enable equipment requirements to '.e identified.   It was
decided to assemble consignments at strategic points near the places of
origin for packing into containers and on-forwarding to Karachi for sorting
before being sent on to the various centers. This arrangement worked well,
and was particularly effective when delays arose in the completion of some
centers and the equipment for these centers had to be held up. The equip-
ment was kept together in sealed containers to be sent as soon as the
centers were ready.  Some deterioration may have occurred.  The extent of
this deterioration will only be revealed when the containers are delivered
to their final destinations and reopened.
2.10     Most of the equipment provided under the contract is of acceptable
quality.  Exceptions are the power hacksaws and shaping machines supplied
by a local company. Many of these machines are faulty and generally below
standard.   The matter has been raised with the supplier who promises to
have the faults rectified.  The Government will endeavour to ensure that
the rectification work is carried.  In the meantime, the company has been
barred from participating in further Governmental tenders until the company
can show that the quality of their products has been substantially
improved.   In retrospect, it is disappointing that the pre-qualification
procedures stipulated by the IDA Procurement Guidelines and followed by
EQUIPRO in the screening of potential suppliers did not ensure the elimina-
tion of this company. at the pre-tendering stage. Additionally, the defec-
tive workmanship was not detected by the inspection procedure.
2.11     One weakness in the procurement operation has bee'n the apparent
lack of the supply of spare-parts and consumable items with m,1or equipment
items and a number of machines have been inoperative as a result. A number
of machines were found to have component parts missing. The procedure for
the rectification of short supplies has not been completely satisfactory.
The excessive down time resulting from these factors adversely affects the
quality of training.   The Government expects to avoid these problems in
future Projects.
2.12     Flexibility.  The comments in Part I about lack of flexibility and
experiment arise in part from the institutionalized character of the voca-
tional training system. The introduction of short pre-entry courses with-
out a reasonable expectation that they would be complemented by structured
in-plant training would have been counterproductive. But there are courses
which are too long (welding and plumbing are examples) and these are being
reviewed.   There are signs of some experimentation in the system.   In
Baluchistan a short pilot electrical program aimed at existing standards is
being run.  In Sind, trade testing has been extended to adults.  In NWFP
short intensive programs are offered at the TTC at Peshawar. At Sialkot,
additional labor market related programs have been introduced (sportsgoods
and surgical instrument manufacture). At Mingora TTC, polytechnic students
voluntarily enroll for practical training.  These modest departures from
custom and practice are signs that the system can progressively become
adaptive and escape the prescription of bureaucratic control.
2.13     Reaching of the target of 640 instructors does not mean the prob-
lem is solved. Many instructors are newly qualified polytechnic graduates



- 14 -
who need both practical experience and training in instructional tech-
niques.   The introduction of improved training media will call for in-
service training.   Training capacity is being increased, but the biggest
constraint may prove to be the limited availability of suitably qualified
candidates who see an industrial career as a rewarding prospect.   The
introduction of an incremental salary scale with a promotional career
structure has improved the position but instructor supply remains a risk
factor in the Second Project.
2.14     Outgut.  The target to increase the number of workers trained by
10,000 was not reached despite the introduction of evening shifts and indi-
cates that utilization is significantly below optimum levels.  Apart from
some "unpopular" courses, the problem is not one of recruitment (many
courses are over-subscribed and commonly over-recruited), but of retention.
In Sind the drop out rate is 25 percent whicL. as a national average, would
account for a shortfall of 5,000 in output. rhe outcome figure (16,500 as
against 20,000 target) is better than 25 per:cent, but still unacceptably
high. Courses in welding, plumbing and carpentry remain poorly supported
and result in a waste of training capacity. Consideration is being given
to restructuring the "unpopular" courses to make them more attractive,
although proposals to do this in Sind in 1985 remain as proposals.   One
method of reducing the effect of the drop out rate would be to introduca a
supplementary entry to fill vacated places.   This question has been
discussed but not yet resolved.
2.15     The NTDI.  Much depends on the speedy development of the NTDI with
its responsibilities for occupational analysis and curricular development,
trade testing, training media development, research and validation. It is
currently ur.der-resourced, due in part to a freeze in staff appointments.
Its future role as the development center of the system and a leader in
good practice is critical.
2.16     Partnership with Industry.  We return to the question of employer
support since it pervades the whole system and will determine its future
direction and development.   Employers appear to be suspicious of the
Goverament training system, either because they are uncertain about politi-
cal motives, or because they fear the possibility that involvement will add
to what they see as an already considerable financial burden.  It may be
that they are simply uninformed, as was the Chamber of Commerce in
Peshawar.   Employers are indifferent to the NTB and PTBs rather than
hostile.   Without their support training will be clinical, not product
related, unnecessarily costly and distanced from the realitie: of indus-
trial life.  The NTB would welcome more employer participation but points
out that training legislation and Ordina.nces affect only about 3/4 m.
employees in the formal economy.   The informal economy is large and
inflated by legal adroitness aimed at protecting the interests of employers
as they perceive them.
2.17     The Management System.  The function and management systems of the
NTB and the executive support service are generally well defined and well
founded. There is scope for better coordination and administration between
the federal authorities and the NTB and regular dialogue meetings should
help to eliminate difficulties. The fact that the NTB has not attained the



- 15 -
level of independence intended under the legislation is due to long estab-
lished government procedures and controls which will take time to alter.
2.18     The participation of industry in the national training effort is
expected to increase as the training centers established under the Project
raise their performance and standards and are seen to be of real service to
the local industry and community.
2.19     In retrospect the composition of the membership of the NTB and
PTBs should be reviewed to ensure a more equitable representation of indus-
try and government.   The establishment of an effective information and
public relation service for the NTB needs careful examination to determine
what roles it can be given and what aspects should be retained by the
Government's Information Services.   There is a need to strengthen the
operations of Planning and Development and Mrnitoring and Evaluation.
2.20     Despite difficulties during the reriod of the Project,  the
Government views with satisfaction the estaL.ishment of an infrastructure
for national vocational training which provides the foundation for future
advances in national manpower training and development, within the NTBs
responsibility for vocational training as a whole in Pakistan.
EVALUATION OF IDA'S PERFORMANCE AND MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
2.21     The early studies by the IDA took full account of the Government's
policies expressed in the Vocational Training Plan of 1978, and the
Naticonal Manpower Ordinance of 1980, which inaugurated the "Crash Program"
and provided, in collaboration with UNDP/ILO, for a number of measures
aimed at improving the quality of training. These, with additions, became
the key components of the Project (see Part I).  The SAR was a realistic
assessment of the steps needed to raise the quantity and quality of train-
ing through greatly improved and modernized physical assets coupled with
the development of a more coberent management framework. It was foreseen
during appraisal that the supply, training and retention of instructors
might rot achieve, the expected results at the present level of emoluments
in relation to which the Government accepted the IDA's proposals to intro-
duce an incremental salary structure, which proved helpful. The reluctance
of employers to share ownership of the scheme was not foreseen. The allo-
cation of responsibility for particular components to the various agencies
involved ensured that relevant experience and expertise were applied.
Deficiencies in the execution of Project components were procedural rather
than technical and arose from internal difficulties confronting the Project
management.
2.22     During implementation, Supervision Missions reported regularly and
identified weaknesses and slippages in the administration of the Project
components. Supervisory techniques ranged from encouragement to courteous
reminders about the management's responsibilities within the Project. Some
components drifted off the agenda, the most notable casualties being
Apprentice training and In-plant training. At Project Management level a
satisfactory level of Monitoring and Evaluation was not achieved. Supervi-
sion alone could not have remedied these problems, which were easily iden-
tified, but less readily corrected withi'n a management system subject to
wider constraints. The IDA was most helpful in agreeing to an extension of



- 16 -
12 months to allow completion of, or fuller progress in, the key compo-
nents. Although the Project ended late, it was subject to shorter delay
than previous IDA projects in Pakistan.
2.23     On the basis of the experience of the Project, the IDA might con-
sider, especially as the Second Project is now in train, the need to: (i)
establish an agreed Monitoring and Evaluation system at the earliest stages
of the Project and require the formal consideration of its feedback at
regular and frequent intervals by the Project Management; (ii) route funds
directly to the Project at the appropriate time to avoid its diversion to
other priorities; (iii) avoid delays in staff appointments, bearing in mind
that posts are commonly identified and described at the SAR stage, and
confirmed in the Credit Agreement; (iv) encourage the Project Management
and Supervision Teams to take a coherent view of progress as a whole, as
well as in relation to individual components; (v) develop publicity of
Project objectives, primari'ly as encouragement to the participation of
interested parties as appropriate; (vi) establish a supervising system for
civil works to monitor site activities and ensure compliance with consul-
tants' suggestions and recommendations. This system could be reinforced by
the appointment of an international architect.
EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE AND MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
2.24     The Starting Point.  The SAR of 1981 identified a range of serious
weaknesses:   (i) ad hoc training plans without assessment of labor market
needs; (ii) lack of in-plant training; (iii) failure to involve employers
in vocational training; (iv) low skill level of trainees in the institu-
tion; (v) inadequate supply of consumable training materials; (vi) obsolete
or unserviceable equipment; (vii) lack of qualified instructors; (viii)
lack of supervision in training centers; (ix) low output from existing
institutior.3; and (x) an ineffective Federal Training Board dating from
1976.
2.25     ImRrovement.  The above agenda was tackled in two stages.  Follow-
ing studies in conjunction with ILO and IDA the Government embarked on the
Vocational Training Plan 1978-1983, designed to re-organize and expand the
training system. In 1980 the National Manpower Ordinance introduced a new
management structure with the NTB and four PTBs. Second shift training was
introduced to produce 5,000 additional trainees a year, and steps proposed
to encourage in-plant training.   Also included were the expansion and
upgrading of training, instructor training, curriculum development, trade
standards and testing. The second stage in improvement was the setting up
of the FVTP, to continue the developments above. The major components of
the FVTP are listed in Part I, and there follows here in Part II an assess-
ment of what was achieved and of what remains to be done. Some components
have been retained in the Second Project (1986-1995), including the re-
structuring of apprentice training, the creation of a monitoring and evalu-
ation system and continuing efforts to raise the quality of training.
2.26     Government Performance.  The Project has resulted in major gaiis:
(i) 31 training centers have been extended and/or improved through the
civil buildi.g program and six new training centers have been built; (ii) a
massive and complex re-equipment program has modernized the training cen-
ters and broadened their range of training activity; (iii) the instructor
training program, centered primarily at Gulsberg, but augmented by the NSTI



- 17 -
at Islamabad, and the center at Karachi, has reached its target of 640
trained instructors; (iv) the NTDI is partly operational in Islamabad; (v)
the NSTI is partly operational in Islamahad; (vi) curricula have been
published for 32 trades,Y/ in many cases including instructor manuals,
trainee manuals and trade tests; (vii) output of trainees has risen from
10,000 p.a. to 16,500 p.a.; (viii) 87 staff have benefitted from the pro-
gram of Technical Assistance; and (ix) working relationships have been
established between the NTB and the PTBs and these should improve progres-
sively as probloms associated with responsibility for t:he building program
recede with its completion.
2.27     By contrast there have been shortcomings within the Project:  (i)
the failure to engage the support and involvement of employers beyond a
somewhat perfunctory advisory level, or at best token observance of the
Apprentice Training Ordinance; (ii) the non-implementation of the
Apprentice Advisory Service. The enthusiasm of the Assistant Directors has
not been sufficient, without supporting staff, to ensure that the quality
of apprentice training is maintained through properly structured and super-
vised programs; (iii) lack of progress with the in-plant Supervisory Train-
ing.  The target of 2,800 based on a modular system was barely reached.
Only 374 were trained, with the consequence that the projected "multiplier
effect" was virtually negated; (iv) the monitoring and evaluation system
remains rudimentary, unsystematic, under resourced and largely ineffective.
2.28     Resources.  The Project was an ambitious venture and there proved
to be gaps between what was desirable and what was achievable. From the
outset Its success was going to depend on changing attitudes as much as on
the availability of resources.  The inertia in the system resulting from
the non-participation of employers and the consequential dependence on
institutionalized training tended towards the status quo.   For example,
short courses did not prove practicable, curricular developments were not
readily adopted and the pattern of provision was not reviewed.  The need
for coherence in the system as a whole, innovation on the scale required,
and the managerial resource to achieve the momentum necessary for a more
completely successful outcome, were perhaps beyond the experience and capa-
city of a comparatively young management system, which had at times to
defer to the pressure of higher priorities within Pakistan.  Even so the
Government would claim considerable success in establishing the physical
attributes of a viable training system, which provides a platform from
which the conceptual aspects can be more fully addressed. No doubt if more
resources had been available, or if available resources had been more
readily accessible, more would have been possible.  Attempts to increase
resources, through better application of the Apprentice Training Ordinance,
by the use of financial mechanisms in relation to employers, or by appro-
priation of 1/4 percent of the cess for social welfare, have been either
abandoned or postponed.
EFFECTIVENESS OF RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN IDA AND THE BORROWER
2.29     From the Government's point of view the relationship with the IDA
was constructive and cordial and well adapted to the Government's needs.
/ See Annex E.



- 18 -
From time to time criticisms of the Project's implementation did not seem
to take fully into account the exigencies of resource management in a poor
country, (see Annex 9) but this should not be over emphasized. The criti-
cism by the IDA that the Project Management could have established a mo-e
visible and pro-active management style from the outset has some justifica-
tion, although the need to maintain good relations with associated govern-
ment departments and the desirability of respecting the semi-autonomous
role of the Provinces should be taken into account.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1109-PAK)
PART III
3.1 Related IDA Credits
Credit                        Year of
Title          Purpose        Approval    Status                   Comments
1. 1109-PAK First V.T.P.*         1981        Closed  The Credit Agreement comprised a
(S19.7N) The project includes               1988    basic agreement with the Government
construction and                           of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,
equipping of 37                           supported by agreements with the four
centers (31 existing                       Provinces, Baluchistan, Punjab, Sind
and six new), estab-                       and NWFP, all taking the same Credit
lishment of NTDI,                         Reference 1109-PAK. Disbursements
and National and                           were made to NTB, which passed
Provincial Training                        payments  to PTBs as appropriate.
Boards.
2. 1670-PAK Second V.T.P.*         1986      Ongoing   Completion 1995
Thirty one new
vocational training
centers, to provide
extended vocational
opportunities for
rural areas and
women.
*V.T.P.VOCATIO1AL TRAINING PROJECT



- 20 -
3.2   Project Timetable
Date              Date              Date
Planned           Revised            Actual
Identification     July 1978        
Preparation      November 1978            --                --
Appraisal          April 1979      November 1979        June 1980
Missions        (Pre-appraisal)      (Appraisal)     (Post-appraisal)
Credit
Negotiations           --                 --        January 1981
Board Approval         --                 --        March 17, 1981
Credit
Signature              --                 --        April 24, 1981
Credit
Effectiveness  July 28, 1981              --        October 27 1981
Credit
Closing         December 31 1986  December 31 1987 December 31, 1987
Project
Completion        June 30 1986      June 30 1988   June 30 1988
Comments:
(a) Rural Training for self-employment, and Training for Women
were included at the Pre-appraisal stage, but were dropped
at Appraisal. Both were later included in the Second
VTP (1985).
(b) Instructor availability and training were identified as
risk factors at the Appraisal stage.
(c) The extension greatly facilitated fuller programs towards
project completion, increasing the project period to six-years
rather than five years as planned.



- 21 -
3.3   Credit Disbursements
A. Yearly Estimate and Actual Disbursements
(Millions)
1982     1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988     TOTAL
Appraisal  Estimate (USS)     1.80     5.89      8.78     6.29      2.24       -        -       25.00
Credit Agreement (SDR)        0.64     5.32      3.78     5.96      2.68     1.32       --      19.70
Actual (SDR)                  0.31     0.30      9.72     3.14      1.36     0.80      0.07     15.67
Actual (U # )                 0.34     0.32    10.21      3.11      1.48     0.99     0.10      16.56
Actual as X of Credit
Agreement                      48        6        257      53        51       61        --       80X
Cancellation (SOR)                                                                              4.03
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                    July 12, 1988
Note: The total Appraisal Estimate of the FVTP was originally 543.1N, comprising the IDA credit
of S2SN  a GOP contribution of S16.52M, and S1.58M as UNDP's contribution.
Average SDR ratio to USS for period 1981-88 is 1.06. For details see Annex H.
Time Line of Planned, Revised and Actual Disbursement
Hillion S
S251                                                                   1             1
201
151__                                                               
51                
0 
1982          19S3           1984           1985          1986      t    1987    9      1988
Appraisal    Final
Closing    Clos!ng
Date      Date
Original Estimate at Appraisal (SAR)           ---------
Revised Estimate at Credit Agreement           - - - - -



- 22 -
B. Disbursement by Categories
Appraisal                    Actual (SDR)                        Percentage
Estimate  ---------------------------------------------------of Total
Categories             (SDR)    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988        Total
*(1.09)(1.07)(1.05)(0.99)(1.09)(1.23)(1.34)
1. Site Development,
Gui tding, Furniture,
Professional Services          4.71   --    --   0.89  1.50  C.78  0.55  0.05          3.76     79.8
2.  Equipment                       8.16  0.31  0.30  7.96  0.71  0.21  0.15  0.01         9.65    118.3
3. Learning and Training
Materials                       1.96   --    --   0.32  0.31  0.07  0.02   --          0.72     36.7
4. Staff Salaries and
Allowances                     3.37   --           0.42  0.61  0.30  0.08   --         1.41     41.8
5. Consultants/Future
Project Preparation            0.26   --    --   0.13  0.01   --    --   0.01          0.12       46
6.  Unallocated                     1.24   --        --     --    --    --  -    --       --
TOTAL                          19.70   -    --    --    --    --    --    --         15.67**    79.5
7. UNDP/ILO Technical
Assistance                      1.24
* Ratio of SDR to US#.
**  Figures may not add up to totals because of rounding.



_ 23 _
3.4 Project Implementation
Planred and Actual Completion Dates of Cooponents
Planned              Actual                Months
Project Components        Completion            Completion             of Delay
CIVIL WORKS:
Federal:
NTDI and one new center         12/84            06/86 - 05/88              28
Provincial Programmes:
Punjab: 2 new centres
and 16 existing                 12/84            07/85 - 02/87              11
Sind; 2 new centers
and 3 existing                  12/84           05/88   06/89 (est)         4
NWFP: I new center
and 2 existing                                   07/85 - 10/88              27
Baluchistan: 2 existing
centers                        12/84             11/86 - 10/88              33
EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
Delivery and                    12/83            06/84 - 03/87              22
Installation                   12/84            07/85 - 08/89 (est)        14
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Fellowships                    09/83                 11/85                 26
Expert Services                05/84                 12/85                  19
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                06/84                 12/86                  18
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
In-plant Training              03/83                 12/85                 33
Staff Training                  12/83               Ongoing
Curriculum Development         09/83                Ongoing
Training Media                 09/83                Ongoing
Skills Standards,
Testing & Certification         12/83               Ongoing
COMMENTS:  Where delays In the Civil Programme are shown, an average figure is given.
Actual completion show the earliest and latest dates. Estimated completions
are given for building still in progress (See Annex A, Table 2).
where programs are shown as ongoing, the greater part of the work has been
completed.



- 24 -
3.5 Project Financing
A. Prolect Financina.
Appraisal Estimate             Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
US$(m)                        SDR(m)                       SDR(m)
Item                       GOP       IDA       Total    GOP       IDA       Total   ZIDA    GOP       IDA   Total
1. Civil, furniture
& Professional Fees    9.10       6.05    15.15      7.07      4.71      11.78   40X      6.62    3.76    10.38
2. Equipment                1.84    10.40    12.24       1.73     9.80      11.53   801      4.83    9.65    14.48
3. Learning & Training
Materials               3.12      2.53      5.65      1.80     1.46       3.26   401      1.48    0.72      2.21
4. Staff Salaries &
Allowances               5.24     4.29      9.53     3.48      2.85       6.33   45X      1.99    1.41      3.40
5. Consultant Service        -       0.33      0.33       -       0.26       0.26   100X   -          0.12      0.12
6. Unallocated              1.45     1.40      2.85      0.64     0.62       1.26       -       -         -
Total Project Costs        20.75    25.00    45.75    14.72    19.70        34.42            14.92   15.67   30.59
Less Taxes & Duties         4.27      -        4.27      3.03        -       3.03       -        -        -
Total Project Costs
(Net)                    16.48    25.00    41.48    11.69          -       31.39            14.92   15.67   30.59
Technical Assistance         -       1.58      1.58       -       2.58       2.58       -              2.58    2.58
B. Proiect Financing
(SDR)
Source/
Categories   Credit Agreement         Revised            Final       Comments
Disbusements                 IDA
IDA
1                4,710,000           4,710,000         3,764,347
2                8,160,000           9,800,000          9,653,991
3                1,960,000           1,460,000            719,302
4                3,370,000           2,850,000          1,410,643
5                  260,000             260,000            121,165
Unallocated      1.240.000              620.000                   Cancellation 4.03m
Total     19,700,000           19,700,000        15,669,448  19,700,000
UNDP             1,580,0oe0          2,580,000          2,580,000
Kev to Categories
1.    Civil works, furniture and related professional fees for design and supervision.
2.    Equipment and related procurement fees.
3.    Consumable training and learning materials.
4.    Salaries of additional staff and trainee allowances.
5.    Consultant's services



_ 25 _
3.6 Project Results
A. Dire!t Benefits
Appraisal         Estimated            Estimated at
Indicators               Estimate        at Closing Date       Full Development
Operational Training
Centers                     37                 30                     37
NTDI                          1                  1                      1
Jobs - Training
Management & Admin.        122                104                    142
Jobs - Instructors
(All Grades)            1,336                 884                  1,336
Additional Training
Output                 10,000               6,500                 12,000
B. Economic Inmact
The economic impact is not all directly quantifiable, althougL the
Project outcome has produced tangible results, including:
(i)   Extensive development of the National Vocational Training
System, testifying to Government commitment to industrial
training as a major part of the educational system as a whole.
(ii)  The establishment of skill standards as the basis of product
quality improvement.
(iii) Access to structured and systematic training for 20,000 trainees
per annum.
(iv)  A reduction in unemployment.
(v)   A long-term capital investment, to which additions are in train
through the Second Vocational Training Project.
(vi)  Economic benefits directly related to local labour markets, and
widely distributed throughout the four Provinces.
(vii) The National Training Development Institute at Islamabad.



- 26 -
C. Studies
Study    Dates              Purpose               Status           Impact
1.   1981-1983    To advise on In-plant       Completed    Marginal
Training
2.   1981-1984    To advise on Curriculum    Completed    Most work completed
Development                              1984-85
3.   1982-1984    To establish Monitoring    Completed    Minimal
& Evaluation
4.   1982-1987    To advise on Trade          Completed    Most work completed
Standards & Testing                      1984/85



- 27 -
3.7 STATUS OF CREDIT COVENATS
COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANT
SECTION                      COVENANT                             STATUS OF CONP lANCE
. ............... ,. ............................... ..........................  ..........................................._
3.01        Borrower to carry out the Project.             Project ext nd d by 12 montha.
Not in full cotliwnce at closing
date Deceeier 319 1987.
3.02        (a) Credit allocation to PTB's.                Futl.
(b) Employment of consultants.                 Full.
3.03        (a) Insurance.                                 In compliance except for uncompleted
work, and uninstalled equipment.
(b) Exclusive use.                             Full.
3.04        Preparation of reports by borrower.            Full.
3.05        Acquisition of land.                           Full, but delays occurred.
3.06        (a), (b) Estabtish onitoring and               Subject to revised compliance
Evaluation System by Dec. 31. 1981.            dates (1985 and 1987).
(c) Arnnal Report to IDA.                     Partial coampliance.
3.07        (a) Short job entry courses.                   Near compliance.  Covenant revised
in agreement with IDA.
Cb) Second shift operation.                    Full.
3.08        (a) Plan and schedule implementation           Full.
timetables.
(b) Implement plan.                            Instructor training-Full.
In-plant training-Marginal.
Apprentice training-Marginal.
Curriculum Development-Near
compltance.
Training Centres-Near compliance
(30 of 37 operational).
NTDI-Partial coapliance.
3.09        Staffing requirements:
Training centres.                              Partial.
NTB, PTBs and NTDI.                            Full compliance subject to delay.
3.10        (a) Preparation and submission of              Full compliance subject to delay.
designs and estimates for buildings
tb) Furniture and equipment.                   Full.
3.11        Advisory Committees to be estab!ished.         Partial compliance.
3.12        Establish skill standards testing              Substantial compliance after
and certification.                            delays.
4.01        Financial documentation.                       Full.



- 28 -
3.8 USE OF IDA RESCRCES
A. Staff Irputs
(Weeks)
Pluned                Final
Stage of Project tycle     Ho        Field       Ho       Field      Totat             Caoment
Through Appriatl           --          --        M          24         110      Only timited
infornation available.
Appraisal through
Effectiveness          --          --        --         11          11
Supervision                --                    64         56         120



- 29 -
B. NISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
,............................ ..... ... .....
..... ....... ... ............. ......................... ............... ................................ ... ...... ........ .............. ...............   ..... .
Performance
Month/                                     Days           Staff           Status by             Type of
Mission                  Year              Persons a/            in Field         Weeks          Activity b/            Report c/
......   ....... ........................ . ...... ......... .. .._. ..... ......... .... ...... _................................ ....
Identification              7/78        E                                4            1
Pre-Appraisal               4/79         A, C, E, T                     26           15
Appraisal                   11/79        A, C. E, T                     19           11
Post-Appraisal              6/80         A, C, T                        18            a
TOTAL                                                                          35
CO CM F N PR
Superv. 1                  12/81         A  E, P                        12            5        1     1  1  2  1         FS
Superv. II                  9/82         A, E. P   T                    20           12        2     2  1  2  1         FS
Superv. III                 6/83         C  E, P                         8            4        1    21  2  1            FS
Superv. IV                   1/84        A, P                            8            2                                 LS
Superv. V                   5/84         A, E  C   P                    10            6        1    2  1  1  1          FS
Superv. VI                 10/84         A  P                            3             1       2     2  1  2  1         FS
Superv. VII                10/85         A C T                          12            5        2     2  1  2  1         FS
Superv. VIII                5/86         A E P                          11            5        2     2  1  1  1         FS
Superv. IX                  12/86        A T P                          23           10        2     2  1  1  1         FS
Superv. X                    7/87        A T P                          12            5        2    2  1  1  1          FS
Superv. XI                   1/88        T P                             4             1                                LS
TOTAL                                                                          56
PCR*                         2/89        A C T P                        24           14
a/ A=Architect; EmEconomist; CzEducationat Speciatist; P=Project Adviser from RMP; TzTechnical Educator.
b/ CO=Consultant; CW=Civil Works; F=Financial; McNanagement; PR=Procurement.
c/ FS=Full Supervision; LS=Limited Supervision.
* The PCR team was funded by UNDP.
I



- 31 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
TABLE I
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COWPLETION REPORT
.......................
CIVIL WORKS SECTORS AND CONTRACTS
_._... "........ .....    ....
Contract                           Total No.
No.         Contractor**         of Sites    N    E    R    E&R
.....  ........ _....... .. . .. ...
Sector-O1*            1 & 3              A                    7       2    2    -      3
Sector-02             4                  B                    4        1    1    1     1
Sector-02A            5                  C                    I        I    -    -     -
Sector-03             2                  D                   11        -    1    1     9
Sector-04             6                  E                    4       2    -    -      2
Sector-05             7                  F                    2        -    I    -     1
_. ... .... ... .. . _..
TOTAL                      29       6    5    2    16
NOTE:
- **Total of 7 contracts. Names removed to protect anonymity of contractors.
- *6 sectors as defined inthe PCI were choas   based on geographical locations.
- Punjab centers are included in sectors 01. 03 and 04
- Sind centers are in Sector 02
- NUFP centers are part of Sector 04
- Butuchistan centers are in Sector 05
N * New Construction;   E = Extension;   R a Renovation



- 32 -
TABLE 2                                     ANNEX A
. ... ..... ... .                           Page 2 of 3
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COMPLETION REPORT
...........................
STATUS OF CIVIL WORKS PROGRAY
..........................
As of Februar$ '989
Start               Actual
Construction         CompletIon          X of Work          Delay
Province/Institution                   Date                 Date             Completed          Months
,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,..,,,,.................... .... . .. .............. . . --------------..  .... ......  ----------......
Federal
NTDI (N)                          may 1984             Jun 1986                 1001              17
ATC Islamabod (N)                 May 1984             May 1988+                100X              40
Punjab
ATC Lahore (N)                   rVv 1983              Jul 1985                 100%               6
ATC Ferozemala (N8E)              Nov 1983             Jul 1985                 100t               6
GVI Shelkhupura CR&E)             Nov 1983             Jul 1985                 100X               6
ATC Sialkat CM)                   Nov 1983             Jun 1987                 1001              29
ATC Cujraniala (E)                Nov 1983             Oct 1986                 1001              21
GVI Gujranwala CR8E)              Nov 1983             May 1986                 1001              16
CVI Gujrat (R8E)                  Nov 1983             Nov 1986                 1001              22
ATC Faisalabad tE)                Feb 1985             Jul 1985                 100X               6
GVI Faisalabad (R)                Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
CVI Sargoiha (R8E)                Feb 19Sf             Jul 1985                 100X               6
GVI Jauharabad CR8E)              Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
GVI Jhang CR8E)                   Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
CVI Sahiwal CR8f)                 Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
GVI Nultan CR8E)                  Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
GVI Khanmaml CR8E)                Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
GVI Bahewalpur CR81)              Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 100X               6
GVI D.G. Khan CR8E)               Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
CVI Jhelcun CR81)                 May 1984             Feb 1987                 1001              25
Sind
ATC Korangi (N)                   Mar 1984             Apr 1989P                 90X              51
TTC Abdullah Maroon (R)           Mar 1984             Jun 1987"*               1001              29
TIC Kotri CE)                     Mar 1984             Apr 1989*                 701              51
TTC Sukkur CR8E)                  Mar 1984             Mar 1989P                 951              50
ATC Myderabad (N)                 Apr 1984             May 1988**               1001              40
NUFP
TTC D.I. Khan CR8E)               Feb 1984             Jul 1985                 1001               6
ATC Mardan (N)                    May 1984             Oct 1988                 1001              45
TTC Khalabat MR8E)                May 1984             Jun 1987                 1001              29
Baluchistan
TIC Quetta CE)                    Jun 1983             Oct 1988"                1001              45
TIC Khuzdar CR&E)                 Jun 1983             Nov 1986+                1001              22
Overrall Percentage of Coqpletion = 981
* In progress - Estimated date
*Not handed over
+ Partially handed over
Appraisal Estfmate of Completion Date - December 1984



- 33 -
TABLE 3                                         ANNEX A
,,--------------------.                             Page 3 of 3
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COMPLETION REPORT
.... .................
COST OF PROJECT COMPONENT
Total Cost of Civil Works per Sector Group
Appreisal vs. Tender vs. Actual Cost
in Pakistan Rupees
Appraisal-Cost
PC-I Provision            Tender-Cost             Actual Cost
Sector-01*                    22,096.465              24,775,205               29,307.813
Sector-02                     16,089,364              23,464,145               22,791,816
Sector-02A                     9,449,626              10,808,211               12,266,353
Sector-03                     20.269,117              30,751,017               36,540,490
Sector-04                     23,357.565              30,762,363               35,680,027
Sector-05                      4,786,575               9.552,119               10,369,919
....;~.-                 ------- ..............
TOTAL              96,048,712             130,113,060              146,956,418
Percentage increase:
Tender-cost over appraisal-cost.                                                     35.5X
Actual-cost over appr isal-cost.                                                     53.0X
Actual-cost over tender-cost.                                                        13.0X
The increase in tender-cost is due to delays in start of construction, price increase due to inflation, and
carrying out certain additional work.
13X increase in actual-cost over tender-cost is reasonable for scope of the work.
* Sectors as defined in footnote to Table 1.



- 34 -
Page I of S
PAKISTAN-LOAN CR: 1109-PAZ
FACTS RELATING TO THE PROCUREKEUT QF EQUIPMENT
BY  LOiOUPRO
1. THE PROJKCT
1.1   Lending Agency                               International Development Association (IDA)
1.2  Credit                                        PAK-1109
1.3   Borrower                                     Government of the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, Ministry of Labour, Manpower and
averseas Pakistanis.
1.4   Project Title                                First Vocational Training Project
1.5  International Competitive Bidding             $9.86 Million
(ICB) equipment component
1.6  Number of trades/occupations                  24
1.7   Project duration                             5 years
2. RluPONgmrLMMU 1F01 ROUZKE PROCURMENT
2.1   Responslibllty of the Project               Under the terms of the Credit Agreemnt the
Implementation Unit (PIU)                   PIU, established within the National
TrainLng Bureau was ultimately responsible
for the procurement of all equipment
2.2  Responsibllity of the Procurement            Under the terms of a special procurement
contract ILO/EQUIPRO was responsible (in
close co-operation with the NTB) for actual
procurement of all equipment under the ICB
component as described in the following
Paragraphs.
2.3   Provision of Services to procure             05 May 1982
Equlpent agreemsat between Borrower
and EQUIPRO signed
2.4   Cut-off date of activities according         31 December 1984
to signed Agreement between Borrower        Subsequently extended to 31 Dec. 1985
and EQUIPRO
2.5   Fee due by Borrower to EQUIPRO under         $741,397
the Service Agreement



- 35 -
3. PRE nTIOM OF       "ENhIKT LISTS
3.1   Equipment list preparation in               01 August to Oecemb*r 1981
Pakistan
3.2   Clearance of equipment lists with           01 January to 30 July 1982
Federal and Prvvincial Government(s)
3.3   Input at EQUIPRO of data from               01 August to 10 September 1982
equipuent lists
3.4  Number of equipment specialists from         3 from EQUIPRO + 2 UNDP project experts
and through EQUIPRO involved in
equipment list preparation
3.5  Number of equipment specialists from          1 cfficial (full-time) from the National
Borrower involved in equipment list         Training Bureau, plus various officials
preparation                                 (part-time) from 4 provinces.
3.6  Number of line items for all centres         30.000
and all trales
3.7  Number of line item, following               1800
grouping by computer of identical
items (items with equal description)
3.8  Computer aided estimation of value of
equipment and other charges:
a. ex-works value including packing         $10.376,671
b. CIF value at port of
disembarkation                           $11,300,194
c. Inspection charges                       $   132,124
d. provision for inland transport,
handling, exasination of goods,
reporting. ete., but excluding
installation and commissioning           $   330,653
3.9  Total estimated value of equipment
and other charges (b + c of 3.8
above)                                      $11,432,318



- 36 -
Patte 3 ofS
4. ADVERTSINIG Oa PROCURKENT NOTICES
AND PBEOUALIPICATION OF SUPPtIERS
4.1   General Procurement Notice (GPN)           30 September 1982
published in press, etc.
4.2  Specific Procurement Notice (SPN)           30 November 1982
published in press, etc.
4.3   Closing date of SPN                        22 December 1982
4.4 Number of supplying firma:
- screened                                 447
- prequalified                             248
following publication of GPN and SPN
S. PREPAJATION. CONTROL. DESPATCH AND RECZIPT OF BID DOCUMENTS
5.1  Preparation of bid documents                01 October 1982
commenced
5.2   Number of bid documents despatched to      248 by 16 February 1983
suppliers following approval by
Borrower and IDA
5.3  Bid closing time and date                   9:00 am on 04 Nay 1983
5.4  Number of bids received                     122
6. PUnLIC BiD OPENIN
6.1  Location                                    ILO Headquarters
6.2  Time, Date                                  10:00 am on 04 May 1983
6.3  Number of officials from ILO involved       7 ILO/EQUIPR0 Staff members
in public bid opening
6.4  Number of government officials              4
present at public bid opening
6.5  Number of representatives from              32
suppliers present at public bid
opening
6.6  Number of bids (with bid bonds)             107
accepted



- 37 -
PaYs 4 of 5
7. EVALUAION OF BIDS
7.1  Evaluation of bids comenced                  10 May 1983
7.2  Evaluation of bids completed                 10 Jun. 1983
7.3  Number of contracts proposed for             61
award
7.4  Borrower's approval of evaluation            17 June 1983
report
7.5  IDA's approval of evaluation report          24 June 1983
7.6  Number of contracts approved by              55
Borrower and IDA for award.
7.7  Total ex-works value of equipment            $9,183,797 (See 3.8 for comparison)
finally evaluated and approved for
procurement
B.      RATION OF CONTRACTS (                  AN AWARDS
8.1  Submission of final contracts to IDA         15 August 1983
for approval
8.2  Contracts awarded to suppliers by            31 August 1983
EQUIPRO on behalf of Borrower
9. DELIYERY PERIOD FOR EOUIPIYKT
9.1  Delivery of first batch of equipment         70S of equipmoent accepted by  forwarder by
set for period 1 Jan. 1984 to 29 Feb.       29 February 1984
1984
9.2  Delivery of second batch of equipment        90S of equipment accepted by forwarder by
set for period 1 June 1984 to 30 June       30 Jun. 1984
1984
9.3  No. of shipments to Karachi ie. port         25 shipments
of entry for Pakistan
9.4  No. of containers used for                   1st phase delivery      114
consolidation and shipment                  2nd phase delivery       46
Total                   160



- 38 -
AM=nz B
Page 5 of 5
9.5  No. of packages/boxes in containers         lst phase delivery    3039
2nd phase delivery      936
Total                  3975
9.6  No. of boxes damaged in shipment and        22 i.. 0.7X of total
transit within Pakistan
9.7  No. of surveys of equipment requl;ed        10 io. 0.3X of total
9.8  Last shipment arrived in Karachi            March 1987
10. FINAL OVERAL COST
10.1 International CompotLtive Bidding
Contracts
- Amount actually paid                     $8,416;841
a. Under $50.000 and/or Urgent Supply
Contracts                               $   121,186
b. Inspection Contracts                    $    89,182
c. Forwarding Contracts                    $   924,776
d. Supplementary Contracts                 $    88,650
e. Supplementary Requests                  S   455 806
10.2  - TOTAL (Equi ant, Inspection,             $10,096,441
Insurance atd Transportation)
10.3  EQUIPRO Services Fee                       $   741,397 - 7.34X of Total
- GRAND TOTAL                              $10,837,838
- TRANSPORT COSTS AS PERCENTAGE OF
EQUIPKENT COST                          10.19X
- INSURANCE CLAIMS paid to ILO and
expenditure against same                $    25,595



- 39 -
ANNEX C
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COMPLETION REPORT
0th; :'
z
z
2111~~~~~~~~~~~~r



- 40 -
ANNEX C
Page 2 of 2
ORGANIZATION OF NTDI
P.T. 0.1.
,ePs  1.           ,a                 ,f 1g~i  i                                    U      I                 _     Ik,mua
touutaft U                 Cftu Tull _.                Staff Tralntag             TrawM  ngor1es               I&.toa  Treto
CAwrlalw                                                                           WIa C     me-
ewcus                                                                  .~ms                      _~       ~     e~os
is Soln "  at si.         of a    stmp* for           sta     n Wtag.                                         stoommea"g  of
* C_t jZ _lbn             *antft~ 1         t                                     * 1 _  O  sIni fhtt   mtmawls. -..Saso   ttotag .6
mwev d wttl               Assist to                    tila                     * 01*        talg alnmnsti. sweIratt  104ft
selenesf                    Z-{                                          .tln1wtr1   1ao                    1    s1t 
cam""ts atdi ti ea                       s                    top." tfw Z1ws.@ *
UUSIOgIGI                SU~VEs.            e        ,,                         Tart cl to o f at tr  sg  .        *S tu"ta lg.  i
walets zwgyI               P _gg    UstiS_t11t1 skll       uial u                 t "c    s  u.sles. e                 msWis
i'itatasi tnIuzltt.       IU'iO gissao          t       o. C-ndut gtaff mtalag  * aerv uu"e,,uui               A,,gt to ta o
* lisaify taUa1a     ;     _6_01_1 ossaalg   tills    us   hSmta              _     I  t_WSI                    40f&13 .Uf6.
~~oofttOg SInUgISI.             *iot %III            "Sa1   oumM . to kuse                               deeometoo
ltron swamp".              cuts.                                    tott@_U       O-      e*         n 
reawlenst amasSon                   cm~ *hmas     effsttwauss
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~o "lidn_  _o  w1j f larmitl
of amu"   sut s       t                                ag s  a" So 66     -
ta  ota,.



- 41 -
ANNEX D
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN   CR. 1109-PAK
.......................
COMPLETION REPORT
TRAINING CENTERS: TRADE ENROLMENT AS OF 1988
ENROLMENT                X UTILIZED
TRADE                      CAPACITY             N        E      TOTAL         N        E
Machinist                       342             263      238      501          77       70
Bench Fitter                    768             381       76      457          50        10
Ietding                         593             327      ;16      443          55       20
sheet Netal                      84              53       20       73          63       24
Auto Mechanic                   393             501      317      818         127       81
PLumbing & Pipe Fitting         306             199       83      282          65       27
Carpenter                       379             103       34      137          27        9
ELectrical Installation         838             903      622     1525         108       74
Radio & T.V.                    388             489      357      846         126       92
Carpenter, Sport Goods           --              72        8       80          --       -
MasonsBricktayer                 82              33        -       33          40        --
RAC Mechanic                    156             209      102      311         134       65
Tractor Mechanic                126              --       --        --         --
Auto Electric                    46              27       31       58          59       67
Auto Body Repair                 16              --       -         --         -
Turner                          426             373      108      481          88       25
Textile Fitter                  122              --        6        6          -         5
Instrument Mechanics              8              17       --       17         213       --
Armature Winder                  48              64       77       141        133      160
Electoplating                     8              --       --        --                  -.
Draughtsman; Mech.              260             611      287      898         235      110
Draughtsman; Civil              212             366      315      681         173       149
Painter                          48              44       --       44          92       --
Tailoring                        70              50       --       50          71       --
Leather work                     24              --        7        7          -        29
Surgical Equipment               44              --       10        10         --       23
,......        -----    ......   ......... ......   ---
TOTAL                         5,787          5,085    2,814    7,899           88       49
Source: NTB.
N = Morning Shift;    E   Evening Shift.



- 42 -
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 5
TRAINING CENTRES: UTILIZATION FACTORS
#  ENROLMENT                            X UTILIZED
PROVINCE                   CAPACITY             N        E      TOTAL         N        E
PUNJAB                        3,474          3,192    2,148    5,340           92       62
SIND                          1,099             750      212      962          68       19
NUWFP                           682             563      279      842          83       41
BALUCHISTAN                     312             501      175      676         161       56
FEDERAL*                        220             79        --       79          36        -
TOTAL                         5,787          5,085    2,814    7,899           88       49
M = Morning Shift.   E = Evening Shift.       C = Capacity.
# Actual attendence by trainees is usually considerably less than the official enrolment
figures, since drop out without replacement has an ongoing adverse effect.
* Low enrolment due to delay in cowpletion of TTCs.



COURSES: PROVISION AND CAPACITY
*                       :  ~~~~~~~~~~achinist   9erch Fittwr bedn    9e.t "*.Iat    Auo t                   ;.:Plwxn   n  Carpenter  :E lwetrical
:           ,.a~~:Pe2L-FIr1ng;:Intllt
* .3- ~~~~~~~          :01~o                02            0304 .:                       05                           0 ?:           Go
:V.dwral    TTC Islamabad12                          48:           :16:5:         t16:    :       16  12:    :                 16k            32:
:Sub~ Total Islamabad                  12    5 :   : 48 :          : 16 : 5  :   16               16  12                       £,6           :3
---------------  --------------            -    ----.              -------------------1--- - 
:Punja&h   TTC gulberj. Lai'wr       :20 :31 :20: 64:5: 16:36 :17 :  7:                     :.        :                       : 24:          : 4063:49
TTC Muxha1pwa,Lah~or*       :24 :22 :13: 60:49:    :42 :17 :20:                         64 : 53: 39:4  :27 : 14:  :                : 64 :56:47
ITC muItan                 :12 :12 :7 :32:42 :13:32 :23 :5:                             32 : 4: 27: 24 :15:    : 40:               : 487241:
TTC RahijmYar8iean         :12 :13:11: 64:29 :    :30:    : 12            :                 : 55: 6 :.32:?2:18:
TIC G4jar IKhan                           . :50:39 :    :10:18a:    :16:13:             lb :29: 27:16 :21:IS  32:    :              24
RTC Kot Ldalt,Lavora       : 6:27  23:48:10 :    :12:    :                              12 :  1: 27: 12:    ::                     :24:33 :26:
RTC Sialkot                : 6: 1:29           :3:    :10:    :13:    :                                                             16:  5 :28:
-RTC Faisalabad             :6        :14:50:        :     12:       ae       :         16       :14.24:    : 30
RTC r.raz.ual                 6:        7:3:        :112:             a 3              :12:    :?                                  :16:    :1It
RTC Gujra.Ast               :6:      :13:36:        :      12:    :               :     1:       :20.24:    : 2:
GVI dAawa1pm.r             :6:11:13:16:             :      12 :9   4:                                  162        61:7:             3:9:9
GVI 0.8. Khm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.14 :2:5                            : :     12   12:10: 16:                          -      16:12:15:
SDI Faisa3abad             :6:14:18:    :                  10 :14:                :     ::        , : :.          21 24  4   2
GJI Gujrwwale              :6 :14:          16:    :       12:   :           :                            :                          16 :24:9:
WJlGujrat           :~~~~~6 :16:16:16:      :      12 :14.       ......                                                     26 : 0:35
0JZ JauhwabaLd              :               12:          : 12 :4:2:               :1232                    5:       :121    *      :24 :22:12
GviJihan                    :       :       2     :      :312 :  2:  3       : : :12:16:  8:                      1~: 2:5S:' : 16 : 28: 12
GM, Jhelum                   6 10    7:32:          : : : :             : :                 . . . :::                         :    : 24 :32  14
GJI l3hauu,ia              : :l           : 12:           :1226                  :     :    ::         1219:    :12:               :16: 36:16
0J1tHiltam                   6:1It   3 :24          .::       :      :                      : : : :   : ::                         : 24 :29:9
SV1 Sahiual..: 2:19:                                                                                                               - 16   : 32   4
GVI S od.12:  4                                                                                              4:If.19:to
UVI shoakh.pua              ::16                     :      : 6:  4:    :                              16'10:  2:    :               16:32:14
..---------- --    ------------------------
,Sub Total Punjab                    :134 :1182 :194 :596 :227 :30 :33  :169 :76 :16  la3     :186 :220 :214 :172 :193 :37 :144 :12 :    56:6S7 :512
:Sind    TTC rotk-j            *       48 :16:15:    :3            :6l      6:1 :          :   :32:1:    6 :20    I           :20:3:          20 :42:2
TTC Mazimagbad. K.Kwsct     :60:601It          :15:    : 15 :24:3:    :   * .M : 70: is:                  :         :39            :20 :55:30
RTC Kor.ii. V.racti        :12 :    :       40           : 403     : :16:              :30:  :       : 16:     :      30:    :       16 :
TTC Sukkur                                                1: t   : a                                 : :10:12       :10:2:           16 :19
RTTC 2tjderaibad           :                16:          : 16:    : :16:                                               
RTC F*dullsh Htro(.Cl Karchi:  : ::                     : 16 :   :                      16.                          16:    :      32:
:Sub Total SuxJ                      :120  76   26  SS.6 la8     :113 : 48    4   32:           :103 : 90 : 24 : 46 : 3 :    :111: 5         :104 :116  32
 ------------- -----                                          ----------- - --- --  ----------- --- - - - - - --- --------- 
:HWEP    TTC Posb.ar                 :16:    ::          : 35:    :    .        .       ..   :16:44:16:20:16:   2:-20:  16:    :3048:17
RTC Mard.e                  :12 :    :      16: 23:10 :16:  t:  1            :I.             17:12:    :              16:8:
RTC Kal*abt                  132    ::         : 29:5 :16 :19 :1:                      :20:33  2  16  -.26   l :             la  . :b:87
TTC 0.1. Khan              :20 :    :       16:  5:  2: if, :    :10:    :              16:  6:  5:    :            :20        6:16:  9:i1
TTC "ingora               t: 4:                :           l::: b:   4 : 4            :1:116:6:16:1:   8:16:    :6:16:14:21
-         -    --------    -       -             -------------------~                  -----C
---  -------------------                                               -     -------------------------.---- --- -- -k-- - -- .- -
I~Toa 1 uO41P                  :0    0                             402   2049962:q405:~   202 : : 48121: 28: 20 4323 : 20 40  22s3:U :5
C*j13ji*g.                :16:    :   :0                                                       :   : : :2.16:20:    :16:20:        I :16:0:
~~~~~----------   -               ---------------
'SubTat-at Ba1ud:tstan                                                                                   --16-
Grand 0tots            :342 :263 :238 :768 :381L  76 :t£j3 :32  :316   9 4   53: 20 :393 :501 :317   :10 :99 : 93 :379 :103   34 :8)3 :903 ;.62
-------76---- ---- -.- -



COURSES: PROVISION AND CAPACITY (Cont'd.)
* Bada.I TV  :CWPuntafr   19asanAlkrick   WC rachmem.:   Trw.tar      92*to      MiaSdm          ir    2  Uxile   : insrutn nt :  Praktre
*Seevtcig   :Sport Gao         Lamjr    :                Ihedtaa   2Electrician        Baca:y      7u        :  Fitt4w     :  Mftahnic   :Mind.-
09           to       2      25     2     1       :     5              14           t iS    :      6            I?5          to5     :       9
:  2  2  2  :  :                                               * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3    :2 
.86:64:-64:      : : 8: 25               :32  56:41:    :                   :    T               24:39: 23: I                          
*   2   2   :   2   2   :   :                             :50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o:   a      48:40: 28.                           1
1 32 :6640        :17:                                                          It           : : : : :1  ::  :24:5?   4 :  a.: : :
1613:1?:    :2?:    :2033:                           t  :32:    :    16:22:    2   :            :2:26:.0:a    50
:12:    1  2  2   2   2   :12:1:    :   :   2   :   2   :   :  g:   :   :1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24: 16                     20  24 t
12                    2 2               21                 2Is::                             12:                           .
1   S   2                                             2   2  ':   :    :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 12:    2   1   2   :6
. 1 6 : 2 5 : 5 9   t   :   2   :   :   :   *   *               .   .    :   :  ~~~~s   6: 1 2 : 9 :     :              2::
: 1   :   2 1 : 1 9                       22          22                 2        2    :   :     : 1 2 : 5 3   :9:     :    :    :                   
: 12   : 6               :    2    2   2    120                                  2   '          1 2  : 21 3 9 : 1 2:       :   :           2  : 2 :
: 1  2:5014                                                                                 I         2 :252     12  2 I   7  2   2   2   2   :       1
2  :   :  t        .   .   .   2          *   :   :~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~120:9:19:    :  2 2 2       2   21 3 
s.12:s2to:2 :       3                                                .2 .         2         2 :12 :52                        *2 I
1                                  a                 5 2           2            .          :20:3::  9  I:
12V216595           3                    :2:45:4                :                                 12:5:t9     :                             
:56:20:21    :   :   :   :54:29:    :   2~~~~~ ~~~~ 2    220 : :: :                        2 I                  9    1      2 2 
156:20:26                      .14               2      29            2      : 2'2 2             125:.
2G 23  21                                                                                      12It.
:201.6 :01    2 6   0t.     3*2:1               2   20        .   .         24 2?2S2   21 .2375           4                 1         9.4
:216:73:25:                                1  2 2 :6 :60:28: t                   s          2   2   :36:10:                             
:26:    a                                  1:6 :    2   2                                          12        6 2 t   32 :          
s26 Is            : :         U      2 :16:    :         1622 2 2 2:                        2             . .2 2
2   2   :   a   2   :   2   2   1   2 ~~~~~~16  1    6 :                  1    6t::      12           3 3 2       2 3 2
.16:                                                                          2   :      2:       16 : :::           .          :
:64:73:25:       : :        10:6:05:2                                    2 2 :6.           :   :451 50:64:                             
234:208:                                  20 :39:24:            :                                                   .
2   2                    : : : :                      16:          2                 : 2 2 2 : :6:                                
:16:    :                               .        * :i                 126:                                           
-----------  -- - ------ --- -- - -                     
.30235:24:    2             32:   2       20 239:24:16:                                          26:    :      16:    2                    
*   2   :   :   2   2   :~~~~20:    :                                                     20 :40:          :    2 2                . . . 2
.12 t202              3                                        2                                    : 20:                                       
1242 20t   2                20 :.2   2   2                                                      :0 : 60:    2                              
L-L! -489t    :72:  62i82 :33:    :156 t209:102 I2t:    a   t46  2?  31 216'::t24            46  :3n.106 :522:  ~ 6         1:7:    :48t64:7?:
-   -       - - - -- -     -



t lacti':    OrI    a' tew   :Tramq             :   Painter    :Tailmring   :L.a0uer NUr.- :Swgical  :                              ~:a.3.
plaUnrg    : s~n~1 s Cvl.£ms :Eupet:                                                                                                  Naf of the I-ttiim            :oeP.
20     :    21        :      22      :     23       2     24      :     25             26             2?         -
*    16.:16:       16  16:  :                                          .                :               . : : : : :     :F.dm.al  TTC Ieam.dad
is6:16:        16:16:    :                                                                                     :   :Sub totaIa.1minb&4
*      24:54:2?:    :        26:                    :312:                                                               :Punjab     T fCGu1berg. Liar
*      40 53:3?             :41:    :          :2 :    :                              :::TIC 3t.oalpw~a, La'u
:24:49  26:    :         26:                                                                                                  "             : I:: : :fC   Atan
*    .   .   :~36:5:     :     20:                                                                                                  ITC Rgiht*Ywl h
*   .   .   :~~22   :20      :                    24:32:    :60:U 4:                                                                IIC 6ujwK hu
.                              :   :   :           A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TC Kat,Lakp.t, L.iatr
6:    :                                       * : :                                   24:    : ?24:            10:    :         :TC Sialkot
:11:    :   :   :   :  *.                                           :   :   :           SI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC Faiamvald
*   :   :    :   :13:I                                                                                                             RT         *S : : :SC gujr~Ia
*      12:29:32 36:t2?:19:                B:4                 :      .       .      .: : : :J  ANOt.pur
:      12's250:SO 12  4  4:M           :                       : *      :    * : :                                                    I  aa1
*      :6:IIs   22:              2                                                    :*WI Gujratuala
:6205 1:    : : : : : : I : S : :                                    : : : : :                                             sIDJinAi
s *26       *3z12:9:                s :2               : :       :    : : : :                                               WI *Jh 1 
:2:9 tI:6:06:0.                                                                          : : :* :SnS                       Ioil   rkuo
a0  :20:t   I                                                                                                          WI : : . ..:        : : S        Cw~lkd
26  : 16   W 2 31             32                                                                                pit20      : 1I :        fTHsaral
16  : 16    S :                                                                                   2:                mc SduWgO      a.K*W
-.    1S :4n 7:2  :1011:1-16:M0               :        :   I   1   :20:               24 :   :. . . . . .: zSubTot.Punja
:2042:  6:0 :   :26:                                                                                               :Sind      flCP.dtm.
2046 192                    :                  : I : :                           : : : :                           :   :           M Knia*at      Aadi 
:16:4:          s 2:20: 36:T9 .a*ov :   :   : 
:   :   :   :40.20:    :   :   :   :   : ~~~20RTC j1trab: d
-----.  - -     - .------------   ~~~~~~~---- ---------.--                         --
6:    :   :2640:611:W2560:316335          I :    4 44             :.20 5:        :4          ?d:         :0                 -.u  uTTot1Sind
20  41  M             14                                                 ;M4FP      ITC Pedwow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
OML    ad.



- 46 -
ANNEX E
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COMPLETION REPORT
SKILL STANDARDS
NATIONAL TRAINING DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE
Under the project, a National Training Development
Institute has been established in Islamnbad. In this
Institution, National Occupational Skill Standards,
Trade Test Methodologies and Curriculum in the following
trade areas have been prepared:-
Trade
1.       Carpenter
2.       Bricklayer/Mason
3.       Electrical Wireman/Electrician
4.       Machinist
5.       Turner
6.       Ref.& Airconditioning Mechanic
7.       Motor Vehicle/Auto Mech. - Light
8.       Motor Vehicle Mechanic - Heavy
9.       Automotive Electrician
10       Welder (Arc & Gas)
iI.      Bench Fitter (Mechanical)
12.      Tractor Mechanic
13.      Armature Winder
14,      Radio/T.V. Mechanic
15.      .Draughtsman (Mechanical)
16.      Plumber/Sanitary Installer
17.      Sheet Metal Worker
18.      Draughtsman (Civil)
19.      Auto Body Denter
20.      Textile Fitter (Spinning)
21.      Carpenter (Sports Goods)
22.      Instrument Mechanic
23.      Tailoring
24.      Surgical Equipment Mechanic with
Forging, H. Treatment & Electro plating
25.      Leather Work (Sports Goods)
26.      Painter (Building)
27.      Shuttering
28.      Steel Fixer
29.      Auto Body-6pray Painter
30.      Construction Machinery Operator
31.      Construction Machinery Mechanic (Engine)
32.      Construction Machinery Mechanic (Chassis)



- 47 -
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK                     ANNEX F
COMPLETION REPORT                         ..-----
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING
... ........ ............
TABLE 1.  Six Months Instructor Training Programm
.... ............ ...... .......... ...................._
PUNJAB         SIND           NNFP        BALUCHISTAN         TOTAL
------.. ....             ---         .. ..........   .   . -----...
1982/3                  94             32             21                14           161
1983/4                  89             23             30                7            149
1984/5                    8            14              8                 4            34
1985/6                   41            25             32                17           115
Referred                 10             8              5                 6            29
~~~~~~~~....  ..                      -----...  .....
242           102             96               48            488
TABLE 2. One Year Instructor Training Programs
i. ............................................................. ..
Instructors Trained
1982                                                  30
1983                                                  30
1984                                                  33
1985                                                  28
1986                                                  47
1987                                                  51
219
Note: An additionaL 65 instructors were trained In the years 1979, 1980. 1981. giving
a total of 284. of uhom 213 were from PunJab, 33 from Baluchistan, 30 from NWP
wd 3 from NTB.



- 48 -
ANNEX G
PAKISTAN - CR. 1109-PAK
COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: KEY SOCSAL IDICATU
Pakistan                   Low Inco.      Niddle Inaoo
.._..................................     Asia mi         Asic m-d
1960        m190           1965       Pcif ic          Paefic
Per Capita GOP (dollttr)                                  70.0         140.0         380.0          276.7           1,02J.6
Populatian (millions)                                     45.9          60.4          90.5
Urban Fnulatian (M)                                    22.1          24.9          28.7           21.5              32.9
Pqoplation omnity (sq.iu)                              57.0          75.2         102.1          161.7             260.7
Arnnul Growth Rate  S)                                  2.3           2.6           3.0            1.9              2.3
Auvual Urban Growth Rate CS)                            4.6           4.0           4.3            4.0              3.9
Cruds Prith Rate (per thousand)                        51.3          47.4          4S.5           29.3             31.3
Crude ooth Mte (par thmmund)                           24.3          19.9          15.8           10.9              9.6
Lif Exp etrcN att OIrth (yoar )                           43.3          46.6          50.2           59.6             60.2
AcOss Safe toter (1papuistion)                                       21.0          29.0           32.9             37.1
Aeons Exeret Disposal (Xpopulatian)                                   3.0           6.S           16.1             41.4
Population poe Physician                            5.400.0       4.300.0       3,480.0        3.506.0           7, M  .9
Adutt Literacy Rate (Sapsstetian)                         15.4          20.7          24.0           53.5              72.9
Total Labour Force (th _OW )                          14,448.0      17.364.0      23.375.0
falm  CS)                                               8.6           9.3          10.3           33.3             33.6
AgrIculture (X)                                        61.0          59.0          5T.0           69.0             50.9
Industry (5)                                           18.0          19.0          20.0           15.8             19.2
Absolute Fvwrty Income Level (dlttars per capita)
Urban                                                                68.0         176.0          133.9             194.5
Rural                                                                47.0         122.0          111.6             155.0
Population Belae Abaeulute Poewrtr y ncm Level (Z)
Urban                                                                42.0          32.0           43.8             24.4
Rural                                                                43.0          29.0           51.7             41.1
Soerce:  Inttrnatioa  M    far Reconstruction and Devwlepnt



- 49 -
ANNEX H
PAKiSTAN - CR. 11i9-PAK
CONPLETION REPORT
...........................
EXCHANGE RATES
FOR US# 1.00
YEAR                   PAKISTAN RUPEES                SOR
.........               ..................           .........
1981-82                     10.50                         1.09
1982-83                    12.50                          1.07
1983-84                     13.35                         1.05
1984-85                     14.50                         0.99
1985-86                     16.00                         1.09
1986-87                     17.25                         1.23
1987-88                    18.10                          1.34
..                 .........................................................................
llote: Conversion rate at the time of Appraisat a 1.27



