Documentof                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2960-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION (VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
February 18, 1981
-Th de t hs a resrkted disributin ad muy be tusd by rcpients ony In th perfrmnce of
tler tokdl dud. ts ontents my n  otherwis be disclosd without word Dank *uMho=ulo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 - Rs 9.90
Rs 1 - US$0.lol
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
March to February
GLOSSARY
CDWP     -     Central Development Working Party
ECNEC    -     Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FTB      -     Federal Training Board
GOP      -     Government of Pakistan
GVI      -     Government Vocational Institute
ILO      -     International Labour Organisation
NTB      -     National Training Board
NTDI     -     National Training Development Institute
PC-1     -     Planning Commission Form 1
PTB      -     Provincial Training Board
TTC      -     Technical Training Center
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTH EDUCATION (VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                SDR 19.7 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project's objectives are:  (a) to help increase the
Government's capability to plan, manage and evaluate skill
training; (b) accelerate the output and improve the
quality of skill training institutions; and (c) improve
the productivity of employed workers. It would consist
of: (a) construction, furniture and equipment for the
National Training Development Institute, and for 6 new
training centers; (b) rehabilitating and re-equipping of
31 existing centers; (c) furniture and equipment for the
Secretariats of the National Training Board and the
Provincial Training Boards; (d) incremental staff
salaries and preparation of future projects; (e) staff
training; and (f) technical assistance, to be financed
by the UNDP.
The risks faced by the project would consist mainly of
difficulties in recruitment and retention of qualified
instructors and constraints in the provision of adequate
government funds. To minimize these risks, the Government
would implement an enhanced compensation scale and would,
if necessary, hire instructors on a contract basis. In
addition, the Government will, by March 1 of each fiscal
year, furnish the Association with an estimate of proj-
ect funds required for the next fiscal year.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Estimated Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million-------
National Training Board (NTB)         0.13     0.03       0.16
National Training Development
Institute (NTDI)                   0.96      0.48       1.44
Provincial Training Boards            0.10     0.09       0.19
Technical and Vocational
Training Centers                  16.52    11.41       27.93
In-plant Training                     0.89     0.19       1.08
Preparation of Follow-up
Project                            0.02      0.20       0.22
UNDP/ILO Technical
Assistance                         0.37      1.21       1.58
Total Base Costs                     18.99    13.62      32.61
Contingencies:  Physical              2.05     1.30       3.35
Price               7.24      4.13      11.37
9.29     5.43      14.72
Total Project Costs                  28.28    19.05      47.33
less duties and taxes              4.27       -         4.27
Total Project Cost
net of duties and taxes           24.01    19.05       43.06
Financing Plan:                                           Local   Foreign    Total
------US$ million-------
Government                           20.7       -         20.7
IDA                                   7.1     17.9        25.0
UNDP                                  0.4       1.2        1.6
Total                          28.2      19.1        47.3
Estimated Disbursements:                      FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
----------US$ million-----------
Annual                    1.8    5.9    8.7    6.3    2.3
Cumulative                1.8    7.7   16.4   22.7   25.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   No. 3105a-PAK, dated February 10, 1981
Map:                 IBRD 15274



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION (VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 19.7 million (US$25
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Fifth Education
(Vocational Training) Project. The UNDP is expected to provide about US$1.6
million to help finance technical assistance under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 2860-PAK, dated April 15, 1980) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 21, 1980.
3.        Although budgetary and balance of payments problems have persisted,
the past three years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth has been accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial
production well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11%
in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 23% during FY80. Value added in agriculture rose by
6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and in
industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79. This
performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of the early and
mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1%
p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising
rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy
changes introduced by the Government have also contributed to the recovery.
5.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time inputs, particularly fertilizer, have been heavily subsidized
(the Government has recently taken steps to reverse this policy, which is
now creating budgetary problems), and efforts have been made to improve the
fertilizer distribution system by expanding the marketing network and by ensur-
ing adequate supplies and timely delivery of fertilizer imports. A better
balance between nutrients has also been attained. In addition, the Government
has begun to address the deep-seated problems affecting productivity at the



- 2 -
(the Government has recently taken steps to reverse this policy, which is
now creating budgetary problems), and efforts have been made to improve the
fertilizer distribution system by expanding the marketing network and by ensur-
ing adequate supplies and timely delivery of fertilizer imports. A better
balance between nutrients has also been attained. In addition, the Government
has begun to address the deep-seated problems affecting productivity at the
farm level. A start has been made in improving extension services through
the adoption of the so-called training and visit system. Preliminary reforms
have been initiated to the agricultural research system in line with the find-
ings of a recent USAID/World Bank study. The Government has also accepted
and has begun to act on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP
study on irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the
efficiency of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distri-
butaries and better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand
the role of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesti-
cides, seeds, agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
6.        Major changes have been made during the past three years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural proces-
sing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional safe-
guards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
Government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary
credit and income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted
to encourage private investment and exports. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement
in private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for rela-
tively smaller-scale private investment projects, though industrialists are
still hesitant to commit themselves to large-scale investments involving long
pay-back periods.
7.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the man-
agement and organization of the public sector, and the performance of individ-
ual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies, the
Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of sector
holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors have been esta-
blished at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. In addition
to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is
being considered on a case-by-case basis. A mutual fund has been formed for
the sale of equity holdings in public sector enterprises to private investors.
8.        The higher level of economic activity during the past three years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes



- 3 -
rebates, and the political and social constraints to making substantial price
adjustments on a number of items of mass consumption, have inflated subsidies.
Rising debt service, following the expiration at the end of FY78 of the four-
year debt relief arrangement with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium,
and increased defense spending have contributed to the growth in non-develop-
ment expenditures. In addition, commitments under the ongoing public invest-
ment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in
development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues,
budget deficits remained around 3-4% of GNP.
9.        An improvement in the situation occurred during FY80.  The FY80
budget presentation in June 1979 included major new revenue measures which
yielded about Rs 4.7 billion. In addition, substantial increases were
announced in domestic prices of petroleum products, railway fares and ferti-
lizer prices during the year. The Government has also been making a deter-
mined effort to restrain both development and non-development expenditures,
and supplementary allocations have generally been small. While post-budget
increases in import prices and other exogenous factors (including expenditure
on Afghan refugees) added to budget outlays, improved revenues and additional
external assistance from the IMF's Trust Fund and from Saudi Arabia limited
the domestically financed budget deficit to about Rs 6.3 billion in FY80,
less than 3% of GNP. A further slight improvement in the budget situation is
expected in FY81.
10.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years, although its share of world exports still remains below the level of
the early 1970s. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from
US$578 million in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly
assisted the external position. These increases have, however, been offset by
a rapid increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil
and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,120 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits has become more difficult
since program-type assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in
the mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources have declined.
This situation is now expected to change as a result of Pakistan's recently
concluded agreement with the IMF for US$1.7 billion of EFF resources over
the next three years, signs that the aid community is becoming more ready to
increase aid commitments, and the further debt rescheduling agreement con-
cluded with members of the Pakistan Consortium in January 1981 (see below).
11.       The balance of payments presents the Pakistan Government with its
most intractable problem. With imports roughly double the level of exports,
exports must rise at a substantially faster rate than imports simply to pre-
vent a worsening in the sizable foreign trade deficit--a task made even more
difficult by the sharp increase in the petroleum import bill. Secondly, fol-
lowing the termination of the 1974-78 rescheduling agreement, debt service
payments have increased sharply though this will be alleviated by the recent
agreement of Consortium countries to reschedule debt service falling due on
concessional official credits over the 18-month period from mid-January
1981 to mid-July 1982. In these circumstances, Pakistan has been fortunate
that substantial workers' remittances have helped to reduce the pressure on



- 4 -
the external account. However, foreign exchange reserves remain low and fur-
ther major efforts will be required by the Government to increase savings and
encourage production and exports.
12.       Thus, notwithstanding recent improvements in output and exports and
in the overall management of the economy, financial difficulties persist. To
a considerable extent these difficulties reflect continuing pressures on
resources, despite rapid output growth and the Government's efforts to res-
train public investment. These pressures have led to substantial imbalances
between savings and investments and between exports and imports, which have
been reflected in sizable budgetary and balance of payments deficits. Further
measures appear essential if these and other basic issues limiting economic
growth in the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the
structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying
behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social
service expenditures: the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises;
and the problems of public resource mobilization.
13.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughlv a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite the
recent recovery in output, a number of fundamental factors continue to limit
agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by the
resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth has
not been commensurate with the substantial increases in inputs, especially
water and fertilizer. WThile considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to give
greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which would
have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of increas-
ing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government and a
beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless, support for
programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and other pro-
grams in the agriculture and water sectors needs to be intensified, while
fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjust-
ments in output and consumer prices.
14.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of
value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency,
excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manu-
facturing growth generally has been affected by the unsatisfactory performance
of public sector enterprises. While there has recently been a sharp increase
in private investment sanctions, it remains to be seen whether these will lead
to a substantial improvement in actual capital expenditures. To maintain the
increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among other things,
an adequate supply of local and foreign financing both for investments and
current inputs.  At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a



- 5 -
comparative advantage; more analysis is needed to determine levels of effec-
tive protection for formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy
for the 1980s. The recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by
improvements in labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabi-
litate the textile industry, to improve the performance of the public sector
and to increase exports.
15.       The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources. At the same time,
activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through
joint ventures with foreign private companies. Domestic programs for explora-
tion and development of mineral fuels, as well as other energy sources, hold
out the hope of a considerable improvement in Pakistan's balance of payments
outlook in the late 1980s. However, a number of issues relating to such mat-
ters as energy planning, pricing and organization will need to be addressed
if this potential is to be realized.
16.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility.  Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs therefore to be given not only to increased allocations
for family planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection
to serve the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the
substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years
has to some extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population
growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situa-
tion in the long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of
this problem; a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial
stages of implementation.
17.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between



investment and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private
investment should attract resources from less productive uses. At the same
time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining private con-
sumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on
non-essential imports. While the Government has made several price increases
in the past 12 months or so, further adjustments will directly reduce the
budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development spending
and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax adminis-
tration and tax and rate increases, for example, property taxes, domestic
water rates and irrigation water charges, are also needed.
18.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer would
help to moderate import growth considerably.
19.       Total external public debt outstanding at the end of FY80 amounted
to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5.0 billion was due to bilateral members
of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.1 billion to OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multi-
lateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders.
Contractual debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from
US$313 million in FY73 to US$397 million in FY78, although the burden of these
payments was eased to US$200 and US$261 million, respectively, as a result of
debt relief arrangements. Following the termination of these arrangements,
debt service payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79. Contrac-
tual payments in FY80 were about US$650 million and are projected to be consi-
derably more in subsequent years, although there will be some alleviation in
FY81 and FY82 as a result of the debt rescheduling agreed recently by Consor-
tium countries. As a proportion of exports, non-factor service payments and
workers' remittances, service on all external debt remained at about 15% in
FY80. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of
its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in total debt
service is now about 10%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
20.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.0 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for



industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
21.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
22.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
23.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has comprised three large fertilizer plants. Projects
are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well as
for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enterprises
for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by way of loans
and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II).
About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC
include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one
each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood processing
and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
24.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
25.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and- begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. A dialogue on key energy policy
issues has been initiated. These efforts are assisting in the efficient



- 8 -
development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources. In the
field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked with the municipal
authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major cities, and following UNDP
and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts a project is now under prepara-
tion for Lahore. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently under
implementation. Four IDA credits for education, totalling US$37.5 million,
have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and
agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricul-
tural extension agents.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of December 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced delays due to government budgetary constraints and to slow-
ness in appointment of consultants. The Government has recently increased the
rates charged by some public utilities to improve their financial position.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to
the Middle East, has been a problem in the case of some projects.
27.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural research, small industries, oil and gas development, water manage-
ment and irrigation and flood rehabilitation. Pakistan continues to have
domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist
the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
in specific cases, as in the one now proposed, is justified.
28.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - MANPOWER DEMAND AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN PAKISTAN
29.       Of the approximately 22 million persons estimated to be in employ-
ment in Pakistan in 1978, about 12.4 million or 57% were engaged in agriculture,
while industrial sector employment (manufacturing, construction, utilities
and transport) accounted for about 5 million or 23%, and trade and services
accounted for about 4.6 million or 20%.
30.       At present, there is a shortage of skilled and semiskilled labor in
manufacturing, construction, transportation and utilities, largely because
opportunities for training and upgrading are severely limited. The present
annual domestic demand for Pakistani skilled and semiskilled industrial wor-
kers 1/ is estimated at around 84,000; another 17,000 is required to meet the
1/   The phrase "industrial workers" is used in this report to cover workers
in construction, transportation and utilities, as well as manufacturing
industry.



- 9 -
foreign demand (see below). By contrast, Government vocational training
institutions and programs have an output of about 10,000 p.a., and numerous
private establishments, which have opened in response to this demand, have an
estimated annual output of about 20,000. Taking into account other informal
training, it is estimated that about 50,000 skilled/semiskilled workers enter
the workforce annually. Thus, there is an estimated annual shortage of about
50,000 skilled/semiskilled workers. Moreover, the quality of training at many
establishments is low.
31.       The scarcity of local skills is aggravated by the emigration of wor-
kers, mainly to the Middle East. During the period 1974-1979, the registered
number of skilled workers who left Pakistan for employment abroad rose from
about 12,000 in 1974 to 54,000 in 1979. These amounted to about 70% and 46%,
respectively, of total emigration in those years. These numbers may include
persons who have returned and emigrated again. Despite shortages of skilled
manpower, the Government has so far not attempted to limit emigration, mainly
because of the immediate financial benefits from emigration. Remittances at
present constitute the largest source of Pakistan's foreign exchange earnings.
In FY80, they reached US$1,700 million and have alleviated Pakistan's substan-
tial balance of payments deficit. While the short-term benefits of emigration
are obvious and relatively easy to quantify in financial terms, the short and
longer-term costs to the economy of reducing the country's severely limited
stock of skilled and semiskilled manpower are more difficult to assess. The
Government and IDA are currently undertaking a study of labor migration from
Pakistan with a view to quantifying its costs and benefits and providing a
basis for manpower export and development policies.
32.       While the abovementioned supply and demand figures are indicative
only of orders of magnitude, it is clear that the large shortage of skilled
-nd s-mi9killed workors is a significant impediment to Pakistan's development.
In the industrial sector, the shortage will continue to hinder the achievement
of production targets and improvements in productivity. While the current
foreign demand for skilled and semiskilled workers may not be sustained owing
to changes in development priorities and in employment opportunities in the
Middle East, Pakistan's own development will necessitate a much greater supply
of skilled manpower than the present capacity of its training institutions.
There is, therefore, a need to create an effective infrastructure of institu-
tions and programs that would meet short and medium-term skilled manpower
requirements.
Vocational Training
33.       Responsibility for vocational training in Pakistan is divided between
the Provinces and the Federal Government. At the provincial level, the Labor
Departments operate (a) 10 Technical Training Centers (TTCs) offering two-year
full-time courses in 22 trades and (b) 15 Government Vocational Training Insti-
tutes (GVIs) offering two-year full-time courses in 16 trades. They also super-
vise about 300 industrial establishments which operate apprenticeship programs
in 62 trades. In addition, the Provincial Education Departments, in conjunc-
tion with the Boards of Technical Education, operate nine GVIs and six Polytech-
nics. The Polytechnics offer vocational courses in 16 trades during a second
shift. The Boards of Technical Education also regulate, through accreditation,



- 10 -
the large number of private training schools which constitute a significant
part of the manpower training system. At the federal level, the Ministry of
Labor, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis operates two programs through its
agencies. The National Training Bureau runs a "crash program" of short courses
in 30 centers, while the Overseas Workers Foundation runs short courses for
potential emigrants in 21 centers. The TTCs and GVIs differ mainly in the
target populations which they serve. The TTCs aim at recruiting adults and
drop-outs from the education system aged 16-25 years, while the GVIs consider
their clientele to be school-based. In 1979, total output of the abovemen-
tioned training establishments, excluding private schools, was just over
10,000. Of these, 1,300 were trained at the TTCs; 400 by the GVI's; 2,000
by the Overseas Workers Foundation: 1,250 under apprenticeship schemes; and
over 5,000 under the Crash Training Program.
Financing
34.       Compared to other developing countries, Pakistan spends a small
share of its resources on education and training. In FY78, total expenditure
on education amounted to Rs 3,280 million or 7.5% of total public expenditures,
compared with a range of 10-21% in seven other Asian countries. In the same
year, budgeted provincial and federal recurrent expenditure on education and
training amounted to Rs 2,506 million, or 9% of the Governments' budgeted cur-
rent expenditures and 1.7% of GDP. Development expenditures totalled Rs 772
million.  Vocational training accounts for less than 6% of all educational
expenditures. Trainee costs at training centers range from about US$0.15 to
US$0.27 equivalent per hour, compared with US$0.50-US$1.00 equivalent typically
for developing countries, mainly due to low expenditures in Pakistan on wages
of trainers and training materials.
35.       Since 1967, the Government has received assistance from multilateral
and bilateral sources for vocational training. The Swedish Government has
assisted in the development of the Swedish-Pakistan Institute of Technology
at Karachi, which operates evening programs for vocational training; the
Netherlands Government has provided funds for the Pak-Netherlands Training
Centre at Multan; and Germany has provided equipment for TTCs at Lahore and
Moghulpura, as well as assistance in the establishment of an Apprenticeship
Training Wing and a Development Cell in the Directorate of Manpower and Train-
ing in the Punjab Labor Department. The UNDP/ILO have also provided assistance
in the preparation of a Vocational Training Plan and have financed experts,
spares and equipment under the Federal Program for Skill Development.
Issues
36.       The main issues in vocational training are its relevance to the needs
of the economy, the poor quality and low quantity of output from existing insti-
tutions, and the lack of coordination among the ministries and agencies involved
in skill training. With regard to relevance, the main emphasis has been placed
on pre-employment training at the established training centers and the appren-
ticeship system; little attention has been given to in-plant upgrading as a
means of increasing workers' skills, productivity and earnings potential. The
courses provided at the training centers are generally two-year programs which



- 11 -
are overly theoretical and could be reduced to six months while still impart-
ing a higher level of practical job entry skills to trainees. Training plans
have been made without prior assessment of the labor market. This has resulted
in an imbalance between the supply and demand for the numbers and types of
workers trained. Also, the involvement of employers in training is limited to
the largest employers. Out of some 6,000 enterprises each employing more than
10 persons, only about 300 participate in the apprenticeship system. With
regard to quality, the low skill levels of graduates of training institutions
are attributable mainly to insufficient training materials, insufficient or
defective equipment, inadequate testing standards, poorly motivated and
unskilled instructors and lack of supervision. The small output of existing
training institutions is the result of under-utilization of facilities (single
shift operation) and excessively long courses. A major contributing factor to
these deficiencies is the lack of recurrent funds for vocational training,
which is a reflection of the overall shortage of domestic resources.
37.       With regard to inter-ministerial coordination, the present industrial
training system is an aggregation of several parallel and overlapping systems
of institutions and programs. The Federal Training Board, which was established
in 1976 to coordinate programs with provincial authorities and employers, has
proved to be ineffective, largely because it has had no legal framework and no
control over the financing of vocational training.
Government Programs and Policies
38.       In early 1978 the Government, with the assistance of ILO and IDA,
embarked on a study of the vocational training system, which resulted in a
Vocational Training Plan for the period 1978-1983. This Training Plan pro-
posed: (a) the restructuring of the management system to establish strong
linkages with Provincial Governments and employers, encompass rural and
women's training and provide channels for larger funds; (b) the reorganizing
of the training delivery system with emphasis on increased use of existing
facilities through double shifts and short courses; and (c) the improvement of
the skill level of trainees by upgrading instructors and providing increased
training materials. In March 1980, the Government enacted the National
Manpower Ordinance, which restructured the management system to correct past
deficiencies. The Ordinance created a National Training Board (NTB) and
Provincial Training Boards (PTBs), which include representatives of Federal
and Provincial Government ministries and departments, industry, labor and
private training organizations and are to be responsible for planning, finan-
cing, setting of standards and implementation of training programs. The NTB
will be served by a Secretariat and a National Training Development Institute
(NTDI). A National Training Board Fund, administered by the NTB, was created
for the financing of vocational training.
Bank Group Participation
39.       Four IDA credits totalling US$37.5 million have been made to the
education sector in Pakistan. The first two projects (Cr. 50-PAK, 1964
and Cr. 206-PAK, 1970) provided US$8.5 million and US$4 million respectively,
to improve and expand post-secondary education (at agricultural degree,



- 12 -
industrial technician and engineering degree levels). The Third Education
Project (Cr. 678-PAK, 1977) is providing US$15 million to assist middle and
higher-level agricultural education and general teacher training, particularly
in rural areas and among females. The Fourth Education Project (Cr. 892-PAK,
1979) is providing US$10 million for a first-phase experimental project in
primary education. The implementation of the first two projects was marked by
considerable delays. Shortages of local funds and problems with civil works
contractors, as well as extraneous events such as wars and floods, contributed
to the delays. Implementation of the third and fourth projects (Cr. 678-PAK
and Cr. 892-PAK) has been generally satisfactory. The implementation arrange-
ments for the proposed project have taken into account the experience gained
under the earlier projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Labor and
Manpower with ILO assistance and appraised in November/December 1979. A
follow-up appraisal mission visited Pakistan in June 1980 and negotiations
took place in Washington in January 1981. The Pakistan delegation was
led by Mr. Rahatullah Khan, Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs Division.
41.       Attached as Annex III is a Supplementary Project Data Sheet.  The
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Vocational Training Project"
(No. 3105a-PAK dated February 10, 1981) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
42.       The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
its strategy to strengthen and expand skills training to meet manpower require-
ments for the industrial sector and to overcome shortages caused by the
emigration of skilled workers. The project would have three main objectives:
(a) to help increase the capability of the Government to plan,
manage and evaluate skill training;
(b) to increase the annual output of skill training insti-
tutions by about 10,000, as well as improve the skill
levels of trainees; and
(c) to improve the productivity of employed workers.
The project would consist of:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i) the National Training Development Institute (NTDI);
and



- 13 -
(ii) 6 new vocational training centers located at Karachi,
Hyderabad, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Sialkot and Mardan;
(b) rehabilitating and re-equipping of 31 existing training
centers;
(c) furniture and equipment for the National Training Board
and the four Provincial Training Board Secretariats;
(d) consumable training materials for all 37 vocational train-
ing centers (6 new and 31 existing) and the NTDI;
(e) incremental staff salaries for all project institutions
(NTB, 4 PTBs, NTDI and 37 training centers);
(f) staff training for:
(i) 640 instructor staff for the training centers; and
(ii) 2,800 training personnel for in-plant training;
(g) the preparation of follow-up projects; and
(h) technical assistance, consisting of expatriate and local
technical experts, local administrative staff, inter-
national and regional fellowships and national workshops,
financed by UNDP with ILO as executing agency.
Industrial Training
43.       Training Centers.  Industrial training capacity would be increased
by about 10,000 p.a. by reducing the length of job entry courses from two years
to six months in institutes and operating training centers on two shifts where
this is not already being done. Starting with the next admission of trainees
after July 31, 1981, these short courses and double shift operations would be
introduced at all existing project institutions (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, six new centers would be con-
structed. Skill levels would be upgraded by the provision of equipment,
increased training materials and training of teaching staff. The proposed
Credit would finance (a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of six
new training centers at Karachi, Hyderabad, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Sialkot and
Mardan; (b) re-equipping and rehabilitating 31 existing centers located in
Punjab, Sind, NWFP and Baluchistan; and (c) salaries for incremental staff and
training materials for five years. To ensure that all training courses would
be relevant, the Government has completed a training needs assessment with ILO
assistance in the catchment areas of the centers. Advisory councils would be
established, with industry participation, within six months after the opening
of each new center, and by December 31, 1981, for all existing project centers
(Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Minimum admission
requirements would generally be that applicants were 16 years of age and had
completed grade 8, except in certain trades where a secondary school certifi-
cate would be required. The Government would formulate and introduce nation-
ally recognized skill standards for mechanical, electrical and construction



- 14 -
trades by December 31, 1981, and for all additional trades for which training
is offered by June 30, 1982, and would test and certify trainee achievement
under such standards, commencing with the first group of trainees under the
project (Section 3.12 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       The training centers would require about 640 additional instructors
and some 12 senior technical staff. Instructors would be recruited from among
skilled workers and foremen in industrial occupations. Present pay scales of
instructors are not competitive with wages of skilled workers. Since the
recruitment and retention of skilled instructors are crucial, the Government
will put into effect an enhanced remuneration scale, which would raise the
average pay of instructors by about 45% to a competitive level with private
industry. Training programs would be arranged at a number of TTCs for
instructors. A draft training plan, staffing schedule and timetable would be
submitted to the Association by July 31, 1981 (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Housing for essential staff (about 15% of
total staff) and boarding accommodation for about 17% of the students would be
constructed under the project.
45.       In-Plant Training.  Although institutional training is the central
feature of the Government's Vocational Training Plan, training within enter-
prises is an integral part of the strategy. Employers would be involved more
intimately with training through advisory committees in the operation of the
training institutions and through in-plant training. The project would assist
in the establishment of an In-Plant Training Advisory Service which would be
located in the Provincial Labor Departments. The Advisory Service would
provide a comprehensive range of services to public and private industry:
diagnosis of training needs, preparation and organization of programs and
measurement of effectiveness. About 2,800 in-plant trainers would be trained
over the project period. The proposed Credit would provide finance for the
salaries, vehicles, training materials and training of in-plant trainers.
National Vocational Training Management System
46.       The proposed project would assist the new national training manage-
ment system, comprising the NTB, four PTBs and the NTDI, which was established
by the Manpower Ordinance of March 1980 (see paragraph 38). The Credit would
provide finance for the construction, furnishing and equipping of the NTDI,
equipment and furniture for the NTB Secretariat and the PTBs, and the cost of
additional staff for five years. The NTB, chaired by the Federal Minister of
Labor and Manpower, has representation from federal ministries including
Education, Finance and Economic Affairs, Industries, Petroleum and Natural
Resources, and Water and Power, as well as from the four Provinces and from
employers' and workers' organizations. The NTB is responsible for preparing
regulations and legislation pertaining to training, formulation of national
policies, approval of training plans and recommending allocations of resources.
It is also responsible for evaluating curricula and performance, approving new
curricula, national skill standards and tests, and for curtailing ineffective
programs. The existing National Training Bureau, a department of the Manpower
Division of the Ministry of Labor and Manpower, will be strengthened and serve
as the Secretariat of the NTB.



- 15 -
47.       The PTBs are constituted in a similar manner as the NTB, but with
the Provincial Secretaries of Labor acting as Chairmen. The PTBs are respon-
sible for approving training schemes and recommending them to the NTB for
financing. The Provincial Labor Departments will serve as Secretariat to the
PTBs and be responsible for implementing approved programs, inspection and
supervision of vocational training, trade testing, in-plant advisory services,
and preparing provincial plans. The NTB and PTBs will also be assisted by the
NTDI, which will carry out job analysis, curriculum development, training
material design and production, skill standard setting, evaluation of training
methodology and systems, and organize training of instructors and senior
staff. About 122 professional and higher support staff will be required to
establish the Training Boards and the NTDI, of which about 68 will be drawn
from existing staff of the National Training Bureau and the Provincial Labor
Departments.
48.       Evaluation.  A system for evaluating the external and internal
effectiveness of the training activities would be developed with the assis-
tance of ILO under the project. External evaluation would focus on the effect
of training on both the enterprise and the trainee. Data would be gathered
from representative enterprises in each industrial sector, and a career
follow-up scheme would be devised to record the progress of trainees. Inter-
nal evaluation would focus on the comparative advantages of different delivery
systems with a view to identifying cost-effective systems. The Government
would submit to the Association a draft evaluation plan by July 31, 1981, and
would establish and operate by December 31, 1981, a monitoring and evaluation
system satisfactory to the Association. Annual evaluation reports of the
system would be made available to the Association for review and comment
(Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Future Education Projects.  The proposed Credit would finance the
preparation of a possible follow-up project. Preparation of the next project
would commence during the implementation period of the project.
50.       Technical Assistance.  The UNDP would finance about 370 manmonths
(185 manmonths expatriate; 185 manmonths local) of expert services for staff
training, evaluation, curriculum development and national skill standard set-
ting and testing. In addition, the program includes about 40 man-months of
international and regional fellowships and 450 manmonths for national work-
shops. The Government has signed a Technical Assistance agreement with the
UNDP, for which the ILO would act as Executing Agency.
51.       Cost and Financing.  Total project costs are estimated at US$47.3
million equivalent, including import duties and taxes of US$4.3 million. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$19.1 million. Technical assis-
tance to be financed by the UNDP is estimated to cost US$1.6 million. A
summary of the costs is shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Base cost
estimates have been calculated with reference to June 1980 prices. Contin-
gency allowances have been estimated at 10% of base cost for physical
contingencies and price contingencies at rates varying from 15% for local con-
struction costs to 6% for local consultant services and salaries. Price
contingencies for foreign exchange costs of civil works, equipment, training
materials and consultants' services were estimated at 9% for FY81, 8% for FY82
and 7% for FY83-85.  Consultants' costs have been estimated at US$75,000 per



- 16 -
man-year for expatriates and US$7,200 per man-year for local consultants. The
proposed Credit of US$25 million would finance the foreign costs (excluding
the UNDP-financed technical assistance) and about US$7.1 million of local
costs, or about 58% of total costs net of duties and taxes.
52.       Implementation.  The project would be implemented by the National
Training Bureau, the Provincial Labor Departments, and the NTDI. Implementa-
tion is expected to take about five years. The NTB would act as overall
coordinator and monitoring agency; it would also organize international
procurement of equipment; administer technical assistance and fellowship
programs; maintain project accounts; prepare withdrawal applications; and
maintain liaison with the Association. Preliminary designs and detailed cost
estimates for the NTDI and the six new training centers would be submitted to
the Association by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.10 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
53.       The Provincial Labor Departments would be responsible for the
educational and training aspects of the project in its initial phase. Once
the NTDI has been staffed and strengthened, it will take over these responsi-
bilities, including: (a) developing curricula; (b) setting skill standards;
(c) evaluating training methodology and delivery systems; (d) carrying out job
analysis; and (e) organizing courses for senior staff and in-plant training
staff. At the provincial level, principal responsibility for project imple-
mentation and supervision would rest with the Provincial Labor Departments.
They would brief architects; prepare master lists of equipment and furniture;
prepare reports, plans and specifications; carry out local procurement of
civil works, equipment, furniture and training materials; supervise construc-
tion, installation of equipment and furniture; and submit supporting documen-
tation for withdrawal applications to the NTB.
54.       Past education projects have suffered delays because of late provi-
sion of local funds. To minimize this possibility, the Government would fur-
nish to the Association by March 1 of each year of project implementation, an
estimate of project funds required for the following fiscal year (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). These estimates would
provide the basis for budgetary allocations for the project.
55.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Because the value of contracts for
civil works would be relatively small (less than US$500,000), contracts would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. Foreign contractors
would be allowed to participate. These procedures would be applicable also
for: the procurement of equipment that cannot be grouped into contracts of
at least US$50,000, up to an aggregate value of US$2.6 million; furniture;
and learning and consumable training materials. Contracts exceeding US$50,000
for equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Local manufacturers partici-
pating in international bidding would be accorded a preference in bid evalua-
tion of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower. Off-the-shelf
items of equipment, furniture, learning and training materials of less than
US$20,000 per contract and up to an aggregate value of US$2 million may be
purchased on the basis of at least three competitive price quotations. The
award of contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000, and for equipment



- 17 -
and all other items exceeding US$50,000, would require the prior approval of
the Association.
56.       Disbursements from the Credit would be made for:  (a) 100% of the
foreign cost of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment; (c) 100% of expenditures
for consultant services; (d) 80% of the cost of equipment procured locally;
(e) 40% of expenditures for civil works, related professional fees for design
and supervision, and furniture; and (f) 45% of expenditures for learning and
consumable training materials; incremental staff salaries; and trainee per
diem allowances. Withdrawal applications would be supported by full document-
ation, except for expenditures on salaries and consumable materials which
would be reimbursed against signed statements of expenditures. Project accounts
and financial statements would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to
the Association. Certified copies of accounts, together with auditors' reports,
would be submitted to the Association within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       Benefits and Risks.  The proposed project would form an integral
part of the Government's strategy to expand vocational training and produce
the skilled manpower needed for industrial development and the replacement of
emigrating workers. It would help increase the annual output of skilled and
semi-skilled workers in 18 different occupations in the construction, elec-
trical and mechanical fields by about 10,000. Industry would also benefit
from the upgrading of workers through in-plant training. In addition, the
country would be able to reap increased benefits of overseas employment oppor-
tunities with less disruption to domestic production, project implementation
and productivity. Remittances of workers employed abroad have grown rapidly
and have become Pakistan's largest source of foreign exchange earnings (about
US$1,700 million or 35% of foreign exchange earnings in FY80), alleviating the
country's substantial balance of payments deficit. These remittances also
enable the migrants' families, who generally remain in Pakistan and are mostly
in the lower-income groups, to enjoy a substantial increase in incomes. The
majority of migrants are employed in the Middle East and usually return to
Pakistan after several years, so that the loss of skills is generally temporary.
Institutionally, the proposed project would assist the Government in the
establishment of a coordinated nationwide system of vocational training which
would help ensure the efficient use of resources. Through improved training
standards and increased training materials to foster practical training, and
skilled instructors, graduates entering the job market would be provided with
better quality training.
58.       Problems are possible in the recruitment and retention of qualified
instructors. Although the enhanced remuneration package should attract suit-
ably qualified personnel from industry, the attraction of alternative employ-
ment abroad exists. The appointment of staff would receive close attention
and remedial action recommended should shortages develop. A further risk is
that the Provincial Governments, because of general budgetary constraints,
might not provide sufficient funds for training materials after the project
is completed. Recent Government action to strengthen the budgetary position
and further measures agreed with the IMF should help to avoid this eventuality.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, draft Project Agreements between the Assoc-
iation and the Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab and
Sind, respectively, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The appointment of architectural
consultants would be an additional condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 18, 1981



- 19-                                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AZRJACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KP.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)M
TOTAL            803.9                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     253.0              1960 1b    1970 1k ESTIMATE ft      ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       130.0    270.0              212.4              1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     61.011      98.0-1    172.0             166.0               842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    45.9        60.4      77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9     27.4               20.8                39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    139.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      332.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2150
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       57.0       75.0      96.0              193.2               376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0       249.0    305.0              409.6              2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8       46.3      46.5               42.0                40.4
15-64 YRS.                        51.8        50.5      50.6               55.0                56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.4         3. ?      2.9                3.0                 3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3        2.8       3.1                2.2                 2.4
URBAN                              5.0         4.0       4.4               3.9                 4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0        47.0      45.0               37.4                28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0        18.0      15.0               14.6                 7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.7      3.3                2.6                 1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..     1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       6.0               15.6                39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       102.0      99.0              101.4               116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0        97. 0     99.0               92.4               108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         55.0        60.0      63.0               49.8                60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0       20.0      20.0               12.0                18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.0       21.0      17.0               17.9                 5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0        49.0      52.0               50.8                63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         135.0/c        .         ..                 ..                52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0      29.0               30.2                42.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      60.0               66.0                62.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       17.0              20.0                29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          3.0      6.0               17.7                52.8
URBAN                              ..         12.0     21.0               71.3                71.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d   4310.O/e  3780.0/e           6322.7              4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      8440. O/e 10040. 0/e         9459.0              2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0      1870.0   2020.0             1758.4               819.4
URBAN                            370.0      500.0    570.0
RURAL                          22850.0    12390.0   12360.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                 ..                28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.3
URBAN                             5.6         5.5
RURAL                             5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8/f      .
URBAN                             3. 1        2.7        ..
RURAL                             3.1         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         17.9/f     ..
URBAN                              ..        54.4        ..
RURAL                              *.         4. 9



ANNEX I
- 20 -
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKTSTAN              ~~~REFERENCE GROUPS (EIGHTED AVLGE
PAKISTAN                            -  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)A
MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCCHE
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0        44.0      51.0                80.9                98.6
MALE                 46.0        62.0      69.0                94.3                99.2
FEMALE               13.0        24.0      32.0                66.7                97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0        14.0       17.0               26.6                55.5
MALE                 18.0        22.0      25.0                34.8                60.7
FEMALE                3.0         6.0       8. 0               18.2                49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   1.0          1.5       1.5                9.9                13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        41.0      42.0                41.1                34.6
SECONDARY                         24.0        20.0       19.0               20.5                28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15. OA      20.0      21.0                40.9                85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         3.0       2.8                 1.8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6. 0       18.0      16.0                25.8               118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1. 6      4.8                 2.4                39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.0          ..       5. 0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 8        3. O *h.                      .                  4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6     17364.1  21270.0
FEHALE (PERCENT)                   8. 7        9.3      10. 0               29.4                36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             60.8        58.9      58.0                70.5                51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.9        18.7      19.0                11.6                21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5        28.7      27.9                37.9                39. 1
MALE                                55.2        50.4      48.6                51.3                48.5
FEMALE                               5.7         5.5       5.7                23.7                29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1. 7       1.8                1.2                 1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i      17.8      17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3Li      41.8      41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/1       8.0       8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5Li      20.2      20.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        68.0      176.0              107.8
RURAL                               ..        47.0     122.0                86.5               192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        34.0      88. 0
RURAL                               ..        22.0      58.0                  *-               182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..        42.0      32.0                46.2
RURAL                               ..        43.0      29.0                51.7                33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 snd 1978.
Ic  1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh; Le Registered, not all practicing in the country; Lf 1973;
/g 1960-62; /h 1972; Li 1963-64.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-21-                                                          ~~~~~ANNEX I
D2PUINITIOIS OF SOCiAl  MDIUCATOSO
Noe:Although trh..d         ro rm  ore  geerll  judgedthe   et auhoiatveadreliable, it should ala. be noted tha  they  ay tot be late-
naionlycoprbe  easeo  h  hu   feadrisdfrto                              ad cncPt .. usdbydiffrent cuuriae to colleting the d.t.  The dam. ace,ooo
thle.  usful1t  destihe order- ofegntu d,i-dotetoende, end  -hrtaistretin eajor diffe.e..e-  bet.een  -ouotrit.
The reference- Stoope are (1) the  e   cot ry rop of tbe eabjeot coutr  aad (2) a totry grour eith so..-h.n highe  aegetr i-rethan the country group
o.f the eableoc uo'atcy (eucept f or 'CPital SurPlus Oil Fupornere" stroop olter  'Mdl  nen   et    fiaedMdl   -test  te chet vne  fsrne
eoi-utrlffinitiee).  It the reference geuy data the  rree   -r  p.pl.lnidgrihe    remei   eu   o   th  nict   n   lte   nyeto
ingt half of the c.ou,rtea. Lc a group hacdte f to the  iodiot-r  tioot  the nonrege of tounrie  aon  the indiostore dnp-vd  on the  -uilbitlity of
data and I  tot unifo.e. ce.ttioo sue  ho eu iced in relating eveage  of one iodic-ac  toanuther.  Thes...           rge  ore only useful I competin  the veI
of on  indicator atale ti    eong the c-r  and referenc  g..uPe..
LAND AORbA (thouaad eqies.)                                                               Oonultioa o  Phtica L-  Popultnion givideg by ntta  ot pra-ctito   php-
tota  - Tr-Ia  surftoe area coprisig laud eve  end inland rateve.                         stte    eiidfo  a sdic                 .hol ehnat onierity level.
Meiclturl - etomto  f agicutural arsue   eprrtyt   etnnl                         Poeulento  revMug  Pa,eon - Popola.ion divided by i,br of pr-tIcIe
for coupe, resore, eaxs  end  itchon gardee or to ie Ifellow; 19-77 tda,te,            sleaif-l  grd_te nuree,pgrt   nurses, en  esiat-tett-
Ponialmee  gentl  ad-tona. fb-n and rurl     Peati-e (Mons
uNP PER CAPITA (10S9) -  OP pro cnion estusate  ancret  ea rhet price ...a.l-               ura, d-cone))divide  bthir trPtote-                  tr  fhai   bade
oul,ted by e9-  covrtomtho  .e World Uco  Atlas (1977-79 bais); l96t,                     -viiehl.e in phlio endpr'int  g-..rI end erainliee   hoepinel            ro-
1970, aud  0979date.                                                                      habtitninncnes                     ..pia    r  netblish.te  P= tnenly staffed
Hu  DNSCMPItfION Ptk APITA1   - Aonual c...eumPtiou of uoerctl enery (teal              bya  least iomebyecda.   tenehlitatmoeprrde  princld  hipall  onotdial
adligoit,  peroem,         -rua  gas sod hydro,-.nuleer an  geothermal ae-              reters non pommnl  ete ffed by . pbylpice   (but by a eadlil  -nient-n.
tricicy) in bilogrem   of coal equl-lou  per uapina; 1960, 1970, ad178                    asree,  idefe. etc.)t which off.e ia-patient  e daiw               Proid  a
done,                                                                                     lidits r-ge of meical faniltini.  Nr statistical Popanos   nbA- heapS-
POPOLATIOM Alit 01751 S7AtIiTICS                                     tale include Wma prietipl Mence  end epeialted  oepirala, -d  -.a
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS    __                                                       hopinela local or rura  bopita  en  medical mad -tgraiy  -wners
Total Pomuletioi. Mid-Y.eorg(ilLiote) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1978              Admieeioe-oH ..uotne  Medh  T.tina  ncbe  of admigLeng to or dischargs.
Udata.                                                                                   fiba)djit.il  dlifd.d by the sibar tf beds.
UrbanPoltu  (ource..t of rtot1) - Utaio of urban tc tona  popoletinel
difflerei  dainitione of u-ha   rese say effect c-myrghlity of dete                    gysgM
-oug cuutise; 1960 , 1971, ed1979 data                                                rA-a Oie. of Oenebold Poeson  ou-P,r houaho1d) -  tota, urban. ga ru.al-
Pinulaton ProectiDn                                                                 b ..tpplt.   --.:1    hou..ebold ceniste of   ru-p of individualsb  shore livtng Ianrtnrs
Porulatio  in year 505 - Curent popultion projctions er  badon1948      ned thei  -ir eale.  A bourder or lod0o say or may out he included in
total population by  gS. aed .-o an  their  -etlityte   triityrne,                   the ho..eahold f or  toatiectoal porycees
Protiun  Ir=ter 1:fur  ctta'ity rates o~leof titan laaeasa1otrn-e  of onroeorostoa.uPn   ndrrl-dtaget
togt  lie-P:ctacyu  bit       .tree.        th  onr'aprvpg           tact-a,her c ofP...oe. pe .ros                    -b al   ure,ed rural occupied cneto
lersi  an  femal  life eupeteoy etbilitis et 77.5 yeare.Tepae                        d.slligs.. reepsctvry1.   _osling        oero-e.naterce  and
enters for fc illity rate alec hove ahoe   evl   deee  d_lisn                          aocpiad perta.
fertility  -ccuding to i-cm   leve  anw atf wily pia-Ingprfrane                    Moses no gle-taioty (osroent at dnelliigs) - total, urban  .an  rura  -
Macth uneatry is thenasige  on  of these nine cwhianoi.. ofrcalt                       onniyna  denIligs. oith electricity in litig quatero -  percentage
sad frtiliy  treds fo  prujot.e    aret.of rtota,  rben, and raoa1 deellicgete-pecti-ey.
ctatiopel-    "nrultio- I.aeteiio     ry  populaton, there La no grri en
the bitrh oats is eqon1    the death rele, and alsn tee s.tructure re-           EDCTO
nin   ctatent    i.ThIn t-hievd only oftte  feotility cata  decline to.            Adlustd focolinnun etio
itsh apanntlee  of unit net raproduttn  rgta, eba  tech g_eretio                     Pr.aysho     ca    aendtni   loose totl, sale id ft-ale
oftsafelae   lIi nuty   Tesotoar   ootto   es                                nerlletofalagsa  tepimr  lvlaspren...o   eptnr
eefmtd  nthebais of te r)etad  bher--eienice of the po9ultiou                          ptaysho-g  pupaltno   oell   nldscilrnae   -
i tOhs year 2000, and tbe trat  of dac1ine of fertility rete to r-pIeca-                yirto d)ee   o    iffretlngh  of, primary eiducation;6for
Searetetio-tyorlatnis reached - The yge   ht scatineay p.oplation                         anc   w   papils era hewl  or ..awa th  off- -ki        .d school age.
sine hoe best resobed.                                       asceadney sc~~hoolt - .oa. main an  ft-la-   Copuitod u  above; seonar
fpuolation D-aity                                                                         S.-ancio  ronra*  latfo  yncrs' of epprovad prmr  ianruc-ln;
Par 5q. he. -Xid-ysar population per equnr  kilcmter (100 heontrn) of                     yretideboarl otetite. or                 ofte   prp.a  Insructyions  orptloo
Pe a. he gericultuo1 land -Comptod eo ibov  feyagiulool  ed                            esolufd2ed        17y.               .     P--                        -1
only.                                                                                 Unneioni  erolmnt("rcet of e...d..m -. Vcticeal Inatatatie
Poroletion bAn Otrturo-    orcnl Ch1Idre  (0-14 pe-r), ouhn-g                15-            Inld   ohicl  nutiu,o   te  progren  u:Lrh  prnetdepe-
6O yaae) , and enired (6  anead  ovr   apostg of sid-onur pope-                           dently oresdepetr-ets of e.n.aduryitoio .
Poruetio Groth gte lurceal -tate  - annua  scrt  rates of tuta  mid-              prmayan   scer   evl  dividd by e,mhsrs of teacher  In the
pes  populatio    for 195-S 0  19 oP.ed 1970-PM.                                          torraspe-dte  levl.
Penulating Groub  at  (nront -uhn- dAgu1 gri range of urban p.op-                         Adllieayrt(srnl-  irtedos(betordadnn)
'letiene f or 195D-60, 1960-70, aad 1970-78..                                              asaPytr.entga.c  to,ta adlit popuidci         t egbed 15  yersad  =ner
.ond  Mirth ante fouraund  - Annul Live births per thousad of red-yeart1do                                                       ...ro     d15y          .
populotiec; 1960. 197, and 1978 data.                                              CeMSUKTtOrfi
Code  _tent  tat  (os t housad) - Anuldesthe per thou..ad of eid-yeer                   Pseioic   00teet  ouait       aeno   asc-re   ue
poultion; 19t5  1970. an  0978 data                                                   oasann-     gle  tho  sigh peresco; uniues         -boas.  he tneeen
iroee Ooraducten  tan-byAr... u.dehar of dauhterse  .nmt  il  hour in                 iterreblhcle...
"her nm rProdutive parte  it  h.e aprieoua  presen.t....-.p.cf it                      Radittiv.  va        -hoed pcouleti-) - All types of rac..iLere for radi
tilitycete;  -eusiy five       ~- ec avrse:  ndiog in 19t0, 1970, ord 1977.             bruaoeset   esa   oio  e   hnedc   oolcoleru                           nt
Penny plaia- Acco"ters. Antaa  (fhon-de) - Aaoal1 i,.hr of accep tors                     ceed  ecivar  to  ontianod iu yee-s ofe prpeatenio,    ofa reiee
of b  irboeuldeotte  under eupo of eational family plnoolos progr.                      Ls in effect; data for recan  years anYcot he  -op-veli siacmee
Pem~Iy Pln_o - t_ reU      orc.     of mariedrmn.        Pratg   fmrriad                  cut-ries  bholieb    li.c inag.
ne _ofchl-heaing a.ge(.15-44 ys...s)h.b -a  bi-htl-ootrul devce  to            Vvccieefe  huaderlto)-7  race.lv-re too brundues  tc
al mried rmniet-eag  group.                                                           gorlpbiprthuadpopu.laton  enluenlic-ned US.. oti-ar
tug0 ANDt YM0fITION                                                                         in c-etics an  in y-ao  eo  oih          pto  of  c esce re  in effect.
ttnnarr  iculnic  Wor tho-sed-v..uleti2e)   h-thu  the avrage  trcu.1-
Uaden of fund Punduction perp(atna  1969-71-100) - loden of per c.pite .-Ion              ti-on  f -dail   gnral interes- osae' deu   s  fruiclpb
pondutiotof all food r        itise.  Production  uclodn  see..d sad feed -dA           licsoiun devoted primarily tc recording genere  om.it i  cusdee
La oncaeder ynev basis.  -adittee  covr poimary gonde (na8. sajarin                     to ha "daily' If it apsr.       tlatfu   teeok
icted  f eger) rhih are edible aid contet  nutrient  (eg.cff-  end               Cinem   anoua Atedtuc   r           ...enn   rf Sa-ata-d onth.k   mero
tea are noded)   Aggregate productIon of eahcntyishsdo                                   ioessl   urn   h   sr  talutatamisin    dcrio-in citai
anticoLa average                      -i - proucr pic  neights; 1961-65. 1970,an198dot,  and nubile unite.
enrgy equivalent of ne  food spln  arotlble in  ot-toy per tapta                     Dr prat
_per  ts. Avilble suppliesompiedeotcpduin,morsls                                   tta tub rtPoc  (th-o...od.) - tcoaicelly ic  repr- oe  including
-pre.ad chege  in stu. Oa -upp It            tud  aIma  fua,                      . rsd forose mud un-ploped hut  .orludiog bo-et-s  etdnurs  ntc.
_uniisusdi  odprcebg d                lsseidstbuon                qto-              sfintoio      var-iou-co -tries are cotoopu.roble; 1960, 1970 and
mentrr  seltl-t.  by PAO besad on phyniologloal otad  f or enrna acti-                1979 data.
viyan   auc  cnidering  niomna  t                bprton ody o1Ntet   age   Pnoi)p -tnt  - Penal  labor force  -e porcatage nf total laorfoce
andysn  diatributi-on  f population. and allowin  10 peronut far  -ase  t          fllAgyprei      ao   oc   nfrig                        siy   otin  and
hangebod level  lOal-i, 1970  and 197 d~ta                                 fishing as pa.rcetga of tti1 labor for-e;19 60. 1970 eud 1978 data.
Percare ntoi ofor L. (eras  per day) - Protein content of P-ocpt                nuty(ecn)-lao   ot   nstn,cotu lottmg-f-t-rtng
ne   upoo   oot   e  ba . Nt -ipply of fodi   eie   saoe    a                       ndoerricirotp,         .   f natty anded  aa t     .,c.tItoftoa  Osbcr force; 1990,
qiw tsf oralIyanote. established by ITiDA  -rrIde fc,gu                         1970 end 1979 da-ta
elaneof 60 grw   of tutw  protein per day end 20 Sreas of animl-A             Patotnintt  (rere.              - totl. sale, and female - Pertiulpatict or
poles pr-oten  of ebtol 10 are  should bnaia.         poet   Th..a stan-              aciiy       -e  are co,tad  ns total, male, eud femal  labor f-cca-
arde er  lowr the  those of75 Srea of total P.nei Lsod 20 aren  ofo   ..,-.odf 1                                                           ft_y
animal potein asno evaras I or te roold.proposd by yAO in the Third       1eruencag0s ofttl  sl   n  f975le popu.to   folse   epciey
Pol   u   ot-ep  191-5  170 nod 1977 dte.                                       190o90,ad17  dtts. Thes  are tIOw'   atcpto rtsrfetn
Per caitn ootein5001  cov animal end cula -Proteui  supply of food ds-            ag-ensrutr  ofItepplcc,edlnges   rn.Afnt
rOve  fro  etiale  nd plneein ane pr da; 161-65, 1970 and 1977 dana.   fcc-cDcoduvOti      at   f                     pplttnodsr 15  ud 65 end over
Chld(ae 1-A)  ortaIt Ratetou  thousad) - Aanul deaths per thousan  in                 to the rtat1 labo  fcrrn,
ag   ru   -   er. tc childoe  in, this a.ge roup; fcr  eet dovrlvptag co__
trias date d.irivd ivy lifr tables; 1960, 1970 aud 1977 data.                       INCOMa OItThIo0TU09
a5ALThPecnaeo    retbu                                                                                                   (both to rashb en   in)-r     ecveVyrihs
Life'eocnoa  Sur E veersi -tAverage tohr of year  of itfe reminiog                        Spe-hald.rtbel    eue,orelyetn,npostloc
at birhth  lb,  1970, sod 1978 dAta                                                     ofhuehl
iafai K-roaity Oats (our thousand) - Aennal dtathe of ijeteot  oudr one yea    rver inTA EToGro
of  ge per thousand live birthe.                                                     EsiaedAaon   oeryIcmelvlt.0ca ah) -rban and rural1
Attes toSfegtr crcn   f coarc)- ooRrbnbn -ual-9IAsluepoetSicm   level- to th1 meUS  lee-                                                         eowutct    iia
.ce  of peopl  (coa,ut        u,ad  ua)nbroonshs'ncseto enfo                            =utirionell  adaqun   dint plus neatilto-food reqtuieats Is ou
racr supply (ieolodee trgatd surface ooern or --`etd  o  utiotminetad                  afodbe
rater eah  s het fru   rcaI-ted hrb e  syringe, end gntr  bel)  .eatm                                ....etv   oeryicseL'e .l`I    y our cpt)-ubnadma
foutain or etaodpcst Ioeted not ma ye  ha  200 -tern  from    bsama  he                 pRMuaittom   of  ythe  outc.  Ira  lee S        e A1rrie fft:    te,rra
ccidsr..daa. baoe sithir reasonble. ..c.a. of thor hos.-        i   _rura  area         leve-l   Lot - dutetfo           rcs of lhcvutaUr-   -     in .i. fr.ac thee -1
reasonable access -old imply chot the hons-if. or sebere of the house.hold            tat.mathd P    =ultl   t Oso- Ahalutr.. P aty f      iccm   -be-onue      ra
dc  o  hv  ic spend ederoococ              et of the dsp In fetching the                sad rura  - Per.    io   ousit(re   n   oe)rooe'bousp
fasilys. nec- u-ed..                                                                                                             t                   'i
rural - Nualtar of pruple (total,  av-hsof ad rore-l)tsnowed-by ancrana
dtRne-l aspernrMe   f their repcttv  Populations  ftotret  die-                                                       tonmcad S-cin  coca Otvteioo
Po-e  say includ  alt 5 c   -lettc   ed diposal, stab or uilhonttr-aeee                                          Oconoic Aclssad Projacie.            arT   mn
of hue  encrec  ad otnets ne  by ratgr-bcrs sysew   or the en  of                                                                    Octber 1990
pit Privits tod simlar iealto



- 22 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                   ANNUAL RATE OP GROWTH (M, constant prices)-
US$ billion          =.                                  1976/77        1977/78         1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                            19.61           100.0                                    2.5             7.0            5.9
Gross Domestic Investment                        3.45             17.6
Gross National Saving                            2.24            11.4
Current Account Balance                         -1.21            -6.2
Resource Balance                                -2.50           -12.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORGE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/797'
Value Added             Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US$ million   %.          Million      .          US$ million    %
Agriculture              5,694         32           12.4      54              459         59
Industry                 4,210        23             4.2      18           1,002        129
Services                 8,042        45             6.4      28           1,257         161
Toat./Average         17,946       100            23.0    100              780        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                  Central Government
(Rs billion)                % of CDP                                (Rs billion)              'A of GDP
1978/79         1978/79       1976/77-1978/79                       1978/79        1978/79      1976/77-1978/79
Current Receipts                   31.7             17.8               17.2                             24.6          13.8               13.2
Current Expenditures               33.8             19.0               18.0                             25.3          14.2               13.0
Current Surplus/Deficit            -2.1             -1.2               -0.8                             -0.7          -0.4                0.2
Capital Expenditures               21.2             11.9               11.3                             18.0          10.1                9.5
External Assistance (net)          10.8              6.1                5.4                             10.8           6.1                5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976/77       1977/78      1978/79/C       1979         198
(billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                               52.8          64.7          77.7           73.1          88.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                  28.6          33.4          42.3           40.9          46.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)               30.1          35.7          40.1           39.8          49.9
Money and Quasi Money as % of SDP                   38.9          41.3          43.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)              255.3         271.4         289.7          293.0        310.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
Waolesale Price Index                               11.3            6.3          6.7              .           5.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                  29.4           16.8         26.6              .          13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)               30.3           18.6         12.3              .          25.4
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serious underenuneration may exist, especially of women.
/b GDP at factor cost.
/ c Provisional.
.  Not applicable.                                                                                                               April 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1978/79)
1976/77       1977178      1978/79      1979/80oa                      US$ million        X
(US5 million)
Exports of Goods, NFS                               1,449         1,746        2,302        3,405         Raw Cotton           69             5
Imports of Goods, NFS                               3,339         3,804        5,198        6,208         Rice               278             20
Resource Balance                                   -1,890        -2,058       -2,896       -2,803         Cotton Yarn         141            10
Cotton Cloth       185            14
Interest Payments on External Debt                   -183          -261         -303         -331         Carpets             129             9
Workers' Remittances                                  578         1,166        1,395        1,575         Other Goods         585            42
Other Factor Payments (net)                           443           552          694          551           Total          1,387            100
Net Transfers                                         ...           ...
Balance on Current Account                         -1,052          -601       -1,110       -1,008         EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1979/f
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                                       799           797          888          895                                                      US$
Repayments                                        -175           -122         -235         -349                                                    million
Net Disbursements                                     624           675          653          546         Outstanding and Disbursed                    7,767.9
Undisbursed                                 2,536.3
Transactions with IMFPb                                41            41          -14           54         Outstanding Including Undisbursed          10,304.2
Short-Term Borrowing                                  -79           126          151           40
Other Items                                           162            44            3          548-c       DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1978179L&                23.47.
Changes in Reserves (minus sign = increase)           211          -312          294         -180
Errors and Omissions                                   93            27           23           -          IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31, 1979 (US$ million)
Gross Reserves (year end)/d                           372           694          386          566                                       IBRD          IDA
Net Reserves (year end)Le                            -146           150          -92          252
Official Gold (year end; million ozs.)                1.6           1.7          1.7          1.8         Outstanding and Disbursed   343.8           717.6
Undisbursed                    88.0         353.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                Outstanding Including
Undisbursed                 431.8       1,071.1
Imports                                               400           485          611        1,203
of which:  Petroleum                                274           341          308          737
Exports                                                27            63           65          120
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11, 1972       May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973         Since February 15, 1973
US$  =  Rs 4.7619                U08   =  11.00                       US$  =  9.90
Rs   =  US$0.2100                 Rs   =   0.0909                     Rs   =  0.1010
/a  Government estimate.
lb  Including Trust Fund.
/c  Includes extraordinary inflows from Saudi Arabia of $420 million and an SDR allocation of $39 million.
Id  Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e  Excluding use of IMF resources.
/f  External public debt only, private debt is negligible.
7E Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
=  Included elsewhere.                                                                                                                     April 1980



- 24 -                    ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                              IJndis-
Number   Year  Borrower          Purpose                       Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a            611.2         581.3
422       1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                     --            18.0   0.3
492       1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                      --            16.0   1.7
1107      1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                     53.0           --    2.0
546       1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --                 30.0   1.7
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                    --   35.0      --    5.5
620       1976  Pakistan  Seed                                 --            23.0   9.2
1326      1976  PICIC      Industrial Development              25.0           --    1.3
630       1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                      --            26.6  10.1
648       1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage              --            14.0   8.0
1366      1977  Pakistan  Livestock                            --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                             35.0           25.0  25.3
678       1977  Pakistan  Education                            --            15.0  11.2
751       1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                         --             3.0   2.0
754       1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                            --             70.0  69.3
755       1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                     --              1.7   1.6
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                           --             35.0   2.2
813       1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                     --            12.5  10.4
846       1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                     --            55.0  24.1
867       1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development           --            30.0  19.6
877       1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                 60.0  59.5
892       1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                    --            10.0   9.2
922       1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension /b  --                 (9.0) (9.0)
957       1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                 30.0  27.3
968       1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                    --            45.0  42.1
974       1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                        --            50.0  49.8
1019      1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --                 40.0  40.0
1066      1981  Pakistan  Fertilizer Imports (SDR 38.2 M) --                 50.0  50.0
Total                                                         724.2 45.0 1,241.1
of which has been repaid                                   397.3  --       23.7
Total now outstanding                                         326.9 45.0 1,217.4
Amount sold                                          23.9
of which has been repaid                          22.3        1.6  --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                             325.3 45.0 1,217.4
Total undisbursed                                              27.0 15.3   450.9 493.2
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit number 922-PAK is not yet effective.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -                 ANNEX II
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (December 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                             Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor            Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel        0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles             0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement              5.25      0.42      5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development          -        0.52      0.52
1969-                           Financing
1]975
1965     Crescent Jute         Textiles             1.84      0.11      1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.            Paper                5.38      2.02      7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules       Fertilizers          1.00      2.92      3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper      Pulp and Paper       5.60      0.63      6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited      Food & Food           2.40      0.40      2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                             29.00      1.62     30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation     Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78        -       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited        Particle Board        2.70        -       2.70
Total Gross Commitments                   60.76      9.48     70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales               33.25     1.01      34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC         27.51      8.47     35.98
UJndisbursed (including participants)     21.23      0.37     21.60



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily.  Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
will be completed in 1980. Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool
will be completed in 1981/82. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the
dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units began
in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical aspects of the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Pipri Marshalling Yard has been completed and was opened on March 18, 1980.
Kotri Bridge has been completed and was opened to traffic on February 14,
1980. Four shunters for Pipri Yard have been received. Spare parts for
diesel locomotives have been fully ordered; 55% have been received already.
Work on the telecommunications and signalling system has started. Proposals
for increasing freight traffic are under discussion with the Government.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Work on the Juna Bunder Berths is nearing completion. Quay piling
and shed construction have been completed and auxilliary works are in progress.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until early 1981 - about 3
years behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construction
of the oil berth has been completed and it has been operational since November
1978. More than 70% of the channel dredging works has also been completed. A
study report commissioned by KPT for rationalizing the port tariff structure
is under review by KPT. An interim tariff increase averaging 100% was approved
by the Government last year, and has already contributed to lessening the port
congestion. Virtually all the funds under the Credits have been committed.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan has been fully committed and at December 31, 1980, disburse-
ments amounted to US$23.7 million. The Closing Date, originally December 31,
1980, has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow time to complete three
subprojects.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.3 million had been
disbursed as of December 31, 1980. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 and postponed to November 30, 1980 has been further postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow time to complete one subproject.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are generally on schedule. Savings amounting
to US$3.7 million are being used for the construction of a pipeline from
Meyal and for partial replacement of the Faisalabad-Shahdara transmission
line. An additional amount of US$7 million in savings has been cancelled.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most
important delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed
processing plants which are now estimated to commence operations two years
later than anticipated.



- 28 -                   ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retendering. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule, and the
Closing Date, originally December 31, 1980, has been postponed to December 31,
1982. Because of this delay and general inflation, project costs are esti-
mated to be about 40% over the original estimates. The engineering consulting
service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended to cover the
prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA (UK) for
engineering and financial management, leak detection and training has been
reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial results of
Lahore WASA have deteriorated; an interim tariff increase was effected
October 1, 1980.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been progressing well. The project will be substantially complete by
December 1980, about one year behind schedule. Due to lower-than-expected
prices, there will be estimated savings of $18 million, $15 million of which
has already been cancelled. The Closing Date has been extended mainly to
accommodate the disbursement of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project:  US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 23 months behind schedule. However,
with the recent completion by WAPDA and their consultants of the project plan
report and construction of ancillary works and facilities, WAPDA should be able
to maintain consistent and seasonable progress in the critical task of drain
pipe installations after delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which took
place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for: (a) primary teacher training,
an experiment on adult functional literacy and related studies; and (b) agri-
cultural education to assist in developing higher and middle level agricul-
tural manpower, farmer training and related studies. Project implementation
remains about five months behind schedule; civil works are about 80% complete.
The specialized technical services program is in progress after an initial



- 29 -                  ANNEX II
delay of 18 months. Disbursements remain low because of earlier implementa-
tion delays and slow submission of documentation by Provincial Governments.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
In July 1979, GOP, GOPunjab and IDA agreed that the project would be
reduced in scope and that PLB would concentrate its efforts on Village Live-
stock Association (VLA) development activities and milk processing. Since
then steps have been taken to improve the viability of the existing milk plant
and VLA formation has increased almost three-fold. Based on the consultants'
report, the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) would be expanded for the production of
65,000 liters per day (lpd) of ultra-high temperature (UHT) milk in tetrapak
plus 15,000 lpd of pasteurized milk in bulk. Agreement has been reached in
principle that LMP would be established as a cooperative entity and for the
appointment of a General Manager acceptable to the Bank and the recruitment of
three expatriate executive manaRers (processing and engineering, procurement
and marketing, and finance) who would assist the General Manager in operating
the plant.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. Pilot programs
for food crop trials, vegetables, apples, forestry and livestock are operating
close to schedule. There has been some delay in commencing preparation of the
proposed follow-up project.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about two years behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment of consultants, who are assisting with detailed project design
and implementation, and GOP financial constraints. GOP and IDA staff have
agreed on revisions to the project's scope.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural work. The
silviculturalist will be recruited by FAO, as executing agency of a UNDP-
financed project. The first phase of the feasibility study is expected to
commence in early 1982.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is delayed about 18 months. Lately, there
has been progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition and
construction. IDA and GOP have recently agreed on proposals to expedite
implementation.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eight months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, drilling perfor-
mance has started to improve. The drilling management contractor, who started
work in April 1980, is now managing three OGDC rigs at Toot field. With the
completion of one new well and working over another, Toot oil production has
reached approximately 2,000 b/d, an increase of 50% since mid-1980. Measures
to remedy institutional problems at OGDC have been agreed and are in the
initial stages of implementation.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is one year behind schedule, due to GOP financial con-
straints. GOP and IDA staff have agreed on revisions to the project's scope.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project pursues four objectives in primary education: greater
access, fewer dropouts, increased learning achievements and reduced unit recur-
rent costs. Special attention is given to the education of girls. The project
is experimental, covering about 8% of the nation's schools. After some initial
problems, the project is now progressing satisfactorily. Civil works, equip-
ment and furniture procurement and staff training are about three months behind
schedule.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
ADBP's lending has increased rapidly, reaching Rs 712 million in
FY80 from Rs 417 million in FY79, a 75% increase. Tractor lending still
predominates with the minor irrigation component progressing slowly due to
delays in the importation of high speed diesel engines. Import of the latter
has just been authorized.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45.0 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts have been
signed for some principal items and tenders for several other major equipment
orders have been received.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA and GOP have recently agreed
on proposals to expedite implementation.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Delays in credit effectiveness and contractors' inability to plan
their work effectively have delayed construction and will call for a revision
of contract timing to bring required outputs into line with the contractors'
abilities.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980 and US$1.5 million
has been committed.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  US$50 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980. Procurement of
180,000 tons of fertilizer is underway. A joint review to evaluate the
effect of fertilizer price increases on agricultural output will take place
early-1981.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FIFTH EDUCATION (VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two years.
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
Ministry of Labor, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis,
with assistance of ILO.-
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and first IDA mission
to consider the project:
April 1978 and July 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 15, 1979.
A follow-up mission visited Pakistan in June 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
January 22, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
June 1981.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



- 33 -                     ANNEX III
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Government shall, starting with the next admission of
trainees after July 31, 1981, introduce at the training
centers short job entry courses of about six months dura-
tion and two-shift operation, in accordance with a program
to be agreed by the Government and the Association (para-
graph 43).
(b) The Government shall, within six months of the opening of
each new training center and by December 31, 1981 for all
existing project centers, establish Advisory Councils with
industry participation (paragraph 43).
(c) The Government shall formulate and introduce nationally
recognized skill standards for mechanical, electrical and
construction trades by December 31, 1981, and by June 30,
1982 for all additional trades for which training is
offered, and will test and certify trainee achievement
under such standards (paragraph 43).
(d) For instructors, a draft training plan, staffing schedule
and timetable would be submitted to the Association by
July 31, 1981 (paragraph 44).
(e) The Government shall submit to the Association, by July 31,
1981, a draft evaluation plan and shall establish and
operate, by December 31, 1981, a monitoring and evaluation
system satisfactory to the Association. Annual evaluation
reports of the system would be made available to the
Association for review and comment (paragraph 48).
(f) Preliminary designs for the NTDI and the six new training
centers shall be submitted to the Association by December 31,
1981 (paragraph 52).
(g) The Government shall furnish to the Association by March 1
of each year of project implementation an estimate of funds
required for the following fiscal year (paragraph 54).
(h) The appointment of consultant architects would be an
additional condition of effectiveness (paragraph 59).






I      T.-l- -TERD (--I   I-R.-E0 --                                                                           (               
PAKISTAN                                               / T                      TTW.- T
FIFTH EDUCATION (VOCATIONAL TRAINING) PROJECT <   CITA  /<     
PROPOSER SNATlOSNL T:A SING DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE                       ?        J                     
*  -PROPDSTRRIN NG CENTERS -OKLAM                                                                       T      J I,SA TAO
EXISTING TRAINING CENTERS CERS GU.uIROVEMENTsI                          /  J        Jo.CL
I EISSTINGTTR-INING CENATElS ITRETOT ORGLGSSISTANCEANLY                       N, OI.
*    NETINAL TRAINING ROARD                                                       0    (AJ 
ZA   ESOVINCIAL TRAINING 50ARDSO=                                                       / 
O    TOWNS ASDET TIES                                                   j                
3    PROVINCIALNUEADOUARTERSTG                                                             3        f/                  . 4OMMFH
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AFGHANISTAN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1RAT                                                                                                                         GANANGA
I 'NhX   _  A D       I  A
</B  )             ~~~~~~~u CH  t  >                     A  IV   RAN-                         g/
X   X  /        L A       R    H    RI                 j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 1 . A2  .RAlD )                             3 MINDA .ATCX I
;4 JV t                                S    /    P                                                                         -D SHI-NUU (IGII
9) SELA    0  \       b~~~~AIKA  f                                                                      rGe MIES                        IN.I  I-
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ULTA I\ :j?                                                                      T_Tj
Y   ;  F  A  W  ADI  \ eM  H~~~~~~~~~~~< [S 1 X i > f rD~~~SDWD
L  t   Sv  T            ;           -          -.fQ                     j            7t                  j        W:        1 3-XA           k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-U   R TD



