OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1109 PAK
DOCUMENTS
Baluchistan Project Agreement
(Fifth Education (Vocational Training) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
Dated                  Q, 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1109 PAK
BALUCHISTAN PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENY ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN (hereinafter called
Baluchistan).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,700,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Baluchistan agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Baluchistan, in consideration of the Association
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Baluchistan shall carry out and shall cause
to be carried out that part of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement for which Baluchistan or any
of its agencies shall be responsible with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, educational and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which
Baluchistan is financially responsible, Baluchistan shall make
adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of
such part and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
and equipment provided under the Project.
Section 2.02. Baluchistan shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the Project, and shall furnish to the Association
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Baluchistan undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by Baluchistan to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Balu-
chistan shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. With respect to that part of the Project for
which Baluchistan or any of its agencies shall be responsible:
(a) Baluchistan shall furnish to the Association through the
Borrower, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿- 3 -
(b) Baluchistan: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association through the Borrower at regular intervals all such
information as the Association through the Borrower shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of
such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Baluchistan shall with respect to the Project enable
the Association's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of Balu-
chistan and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) Baluchistan shall at the request of the
Association after consultation with the Borrower, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Baluchistan shall promptly inform the Association
through the Borrower of any condition which interferes or threa-
tens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by Baluchistan of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Baluchistan shall maintain, or cause its
agencies to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of activities
related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Baluchistan shall at all times operate, main-
tain, renew and repair, or cause to be operated, maintained,


﻿-4-
renewed and repaired, in accordance with appropriate educational
and management practices, the facilities and equipment provided
under that portion of the Project located in Baluchistan.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Baluchistan thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Baluchistan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-5-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Province of Baluchistan:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Baluchistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Quetta
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Baluchistan may be taken or executed
by its Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development
Department or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 6 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
By                              Vpsentative
Authorized  epresetiv


