.     ...CREDIT NUMBER 1109 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Education (Vocational Training) Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1109 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   6                         , 1981, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKIST acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and the Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and North West Frontier
Provinces of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Punjab,
Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP, respectively), Punjab, Sind, Baluchis-
tan and NWFP have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of carrying out the Project; and
(C) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recital (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a politi-
cal subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "the Provinces" mean the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Section;
(f) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(g) "Sind Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Sind of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(h) "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement
between 'the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may be'
amended from time to time;
(j) "the Project Agreements" mean the agreements defined in
paragraphs (f) to (i) of this Section and "the respective Project
Agreement" means in relation to any one of the Provinces, any such
agreement to which that Province is a party; and
(k) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 19,700,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August I commencing August 1, 1991, and ending
February 1, 2031, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and


﻿efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, education and engineering practices, and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To that end, the Borrower shall make and, with respect
to those portions of the Project for which the Provinces are
financially responsible cause the Provinces to make adequate and
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project
and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project, and shall furnish to the
Association by March 1 of each year of project implementation,
beginning March 1, 1982, an estimate of project funds required for
the following fiscal year.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
and cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary on its
part to enable the Provinces to perform all their obligations
under the Provinces Project Agreements and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
all necessary steps, including the provision of adequate funds, to
ensure efficient customs clearance of all goods imported for use
under the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Provinces in carry-
ing out those parts of the Project for which the Provinces are
responsible, the Borrower shall make available to the Provinces,
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to them under Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, under procedures, and terms and conditions,
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿- 5 -
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development


﻿-6-
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
in accordance with a timetable and criteria satisfactory to the
Association, all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as
and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall (a) establish a monitoring
and evaluation system satisfactory to the Association, inter
alia, to evaluate annually the overall effectiveness and impact of
the industrial training programs carried out under the Project,
the said system to be operative by not later than December 31,
1981;
(b) submit a draft of such system to the Association by
July 31,. 1981; and
(c) make available to the Association for review and com-
ments the annual evaluation reports of the said system.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, with the next admission of
trainees after July 31, 1981, introduce or cause to be introduced:
(a) at all training centers listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, short job-entry courses of about six months
duration; and
(b) a second shift of short job-entry courses at the train-
ing centers listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement presently operating long courses
during the first shift.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) with respect to Part
C of the Project, by July 31, 1981, provide or cause to be
provided to the Association a draft training program, staffing
schedule and implementation timetable; and
(b) carry out or cause to be carried out Part C of the
Project in accordance with a training program, staffing schedule
and implementation timetable satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7 -
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be
provided to the Secretariat of the National Training Board, the
Provincial Training Boards, the National Training Development
Institute and the technical training centers adequate quali-
fied staff recruited through the Borrower's usual procedures or on
a contract basis in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall send to the Association
for review and comment: (a) by December 31, 1981, the preliminary
designs and cost estimates of the buildings to be constructed
under the Project; and
(b) promptly upon their preparation the master lists of
furniture and equipment.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, within six months of the
beginning of operations of each new center, and no later than
December 31, 1981 with respect to each other center, establish,
or cause to be established, an advisory committee, to include
representatives of industry, to provide advice concerning the
local labor market and its requirements.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) formulate and intro-
duce, or cause to be formulated and introduced, nationally recog-
nized skill standards (i) by December 31, 1981, with respect to
mechanical, electrical and construction trades; and (ii) by June
30, 1982, with respect to all other trades offered at the voca-
tional training centers; and
(b) test and certify, or cause to be tested and certified,
trainee achievement under such standards, commencing with the
first group of trainees under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures with respect to Categories (3) and (4)


﻿-8-
in the table to Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) establish, or cause to be estab-
lished by the entities referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, separate accounts for the purposes of the Project;
(ii) cause such accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of the consolidated
financial statements of the accounts referred to in (i) above for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) and
(b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iv) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Association such other information concerning such accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.   The Borrower shall cause the departments and
agencies referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in respect
to activities related to the Project, to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of the obligations under the Project Agreements and shall promptly


﻿- 9 -
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the performance of the said obliga-
tions.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of such Province under the respective
Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that one or more of the Provinces shall be able
to perform its obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the architectural consultants to assist
in the design work referred to in Section 3.10 (a) of this Agree-
ment shall have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Provinces
Project Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective Province, and


﻿- 10 -
is legally binding upon such Province in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date            9w      , 1981 is hereby
specified for the purposes of  cti   12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                          ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreemenc to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works, furni-            4,710,000        40%
ture and related
professional fees for
design/supervision
(2) Equipment and related          8,160,000
procurement fees
(a) directly imported                          100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                              100% of local
factured                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported, pro-                             80% of local
cured locally                             expenditures
(3) Consumable training            1,960,000        45%
materials and learn-
ing materials
(4) Salaries of additional         3,370,000        45%
staff and trainee
per diem allowances
(5) Consultants' services            260,000        100%
(6) Unallocated                    1,240,000
TOTAL                   19,700,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 14 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion' s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Buildings, Equipment and Materials
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) National Training Development Institute (NTDI);
(b) Training centers specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of the Annex to this Schedule.
(2) Furnishing and equipping of the facilities of the National
Training Board (NTB) and the four Provincial Training Boards
(PTB).
(3) Provision of consumable training and learning materials for
NTDI and all training centers specified in the Annex to this
Schedule.
Part B:   Staff Establishment
Provision of and support for, additional staff through
June 1986 for the Secretariat of the National Training Board,
the Provincial Training Boards, the National Training Develop-
ment Institute and the training centers specified in the Annex to
this Schedule.
Part C:   Staff Training Program
Establishment of: (a) an In-PlanL Training Advisory Service
to be located in each Province; and (b) a program for the training
of about 640 instructors to staff training centers, and about
2,800 instructors for in-plant training programs.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Preparation of Future Projects
The preparation of future education and training projects.
Construction and equipping of Project physical facilities
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984. The program
financed under the Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1986.


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Training Centers
(a) 1.    Lahore
2.   Sialkot
3.   Rawalpindi
4.   Landhi (Karachi)
5.   Hyderabad
6.   Mardan
(b)  7.   Faisalabad (ATC)
8.   Ferozawala
9.   Gujranwala (ATC)
10.   Bahawalpur
11.   D. G. Khan
12.   Faisalabad (GVI)
13.   Gujranwala (GVI)
14.   Gujrat
15.   Jauharabad
16.   Jhang
17.   Jhelum
18.   Khanewal
19.   Multan
20.   Sahiwal
21.   Sargodha
22.   Sheikhupura
23.   Sukkur
24.   Abdullah Haroon (Karachi)
25.   Khalabat
26.   Mingora
27.   D.I. Khan
28.   Khuzdar
(c) 29.   Kotri
30.   Quetta
(d) 31.   Gulberg (Lahore)
32.   Moghulpura (Lahore)
33.   Multan
34.   R. Y. Khan


﻿- 18 -
35.   Gujarkhan
36.   Nazimabad (Karachi)
37.   Peshawar
Specific locations of the training centers listed above shall
be subject to modification by further agreements between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, items of equipment shall to the extent
practicable be grouped in contracts with estimated values exceed-
ing the equivalent of $50,000 each, in such a manner as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, so as to permit
bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Pakistan and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 21 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and furniture may be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Equipment which cannot be grouped in accordance with
Part A.3 of this Schedule may be procured on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; provided that the aggregate ex-
penditure for equipment so purchased shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $2,600,000.
3.   Learning materials and consumable training materials
may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
4.   Miscellaneous items with values not exceeding the
equivalent of $20,000 for each contract, may be purchased through
normal commercial channels after solicitation of at least three
price quotations; provided that the aggregate expenditure for
items so purchased shall not exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to civil works contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more and with respect to all contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 22 -
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or


﻿- 23 -
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
Schedule 4
Recruitment Schedule (Calendar Years)
For Additional Instructors:
Province                  1981     1982     1983     1984     1985
Punjab                     210       72      135        -        -
Sind                        43        -       10        95
NWFP                        29       13       13        -        -
Baluchistan                 20        -        -         -       -
For National Training
Development Institute and
Training Boards:          1981     1982     1983     1984     1985
National Training
Development Institute       15       10        5        -        -
Provincial Training
Board (Provincial
Labor Department)
Punjab                       4        4        3        -        -
Sind                         4        2        -
NWFP                         2        2
Baluchistan                  2        1


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the .          day of
198 1
FOR SECRETARY


