Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12845
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2672-EC)
MARCH 14, 1994
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Sucre
Exchange Rate: Intervention Rate (end of period):
1985        US$1 =         69.6
1986        US$1 =        122.8
1987        US$1 =        170.5
1988        US$1 =        301.6
1989        US$1 =        526.3
1990        US$1 =        767.8
1991        US$1 =       1,046.2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFIN        Association of Finance Companies
BCE         Banco Central del Ecuador (Central Bank)
CAF         Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento
CD          Certificate of Deposit
CFN         Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IE          Investment Enterprise
IMF         International Monetary Fund
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
USAID       U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecuador -
Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2672-EC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2672-EC)
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower.
The objectives of the project were to encourage trade, industrial and financial policy reforms,
promote efficient industrial development, and strengthen regulatory agencies and financial
intermediaries. The project was a hybrid operation, involving a fast disbursing component in support
of policy measures that were taken prior to loan effectiveness, and a line of credit and technical
assistance components.
The broad objectives of the project were not met, mainly because of the Government's failure to
abide by its policy commitments. Loan covenants relating to the management of interest rate policy
were not complied with and there was some backtracking on trade reforms. Loan commitments were
suspended until corrective interest rate policy measures were taken. The Bank's decisive action in this
regard was instrumental in eventually bringing about significant reforms in interest rate policy.
The line of credit succeeded in providing critically needed funds to industrial enterprises at a time
when the prevailing economic crisis made alternative funds scarce. However, onlending rates were
heavily subsidized, resulting in the incurrence of substantial foreign exchange losses for the
Government. The performance of the subprojects supported is unknown.
The technical assistance component supported useful training, but otherwise suffered due to
weaknesses in design and a lack of commitment on the part of the implementing agencies.
The project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. Institutional development achievements
are rated as modest and sustainability as uncertain. The PCR is of very good quality. It presents a
candid assessment of the project's performance.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. It contents
Inuy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOTR
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2672-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE  ..............................................                                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...................................                                      ii-vi
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity...
B. Background ....................................                                  1
C. Project Objectives and Description  ....      ........... .                      5
D. Project Design and Organization .....       ........... .                        6
E. Project Implementation .............................                             9
F. Project Results ..................................                              13
G. Project Sustainability ..............................                           15
H. Bank Performance  ...............            ..      ..............             15
I. Borrower/Executing Agencies Performance .................                       16
J. Project Relationship ...............................                            17
K. Project Documentation and Data ...........          ..     ..........           17
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Evaluation of Bank Performance .......................                          18
B. The Borrower and the Executing Agency ..................                        18
C. Relations Between the World Bank and the Borrower ....          ......          19
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans ...............................                              20
2. Project Timetable  ................................                             20
3. Loan Disbursements ...............................                              20
4. Use of Bank Resources .............................                             21
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Project Terms and Conditions .................                       22
2. Technical Note ..................................                               25
3. Tables  .......................................                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2672-EC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Finance Project in
Ecuador, for which Loan 2672-EC in the amount of US$115.0 million equivalent was approved
on March 27, 1986. The project was implemented during a particularly difficult period, marked
by high inflation and recession, the onslaught of a natural disaster in 1987, and consequent
liquidity crisis. The loan was closed on June 30, 1993, about six months before schedule. The
final disbursement was made on January 7, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance, and Private Sector Development Division,
Country Department IV, of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). (forthcoming)
In preparation of this PCR, a mission visited Ecuador in June 1992 and discussed the
effectiveness of the credit with Governmental officials, representatives of the participating
fmance intermediaries, and investment enterprises that received financing from this loan. It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2672-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) support changes in trade, industrial and financial
policy; (ii) continue encouraging more efficient domestic resource mobilization and allocation
through an adequate interest rate structure; (iii) strengthen the financial condition of financial
intermediaries; (iv) provide term credit for efficient industrial development; and (v) provide
technical assistance to: the Central Bank (BCE) to derive shadow prices for more effective
project evaluation; the Superintendency of Banks (SB) and the Superintendency of Companies
(SC) to strengthen their supervisory capabilities; and financial intermediaries to strengthen their
project evaluation capabilities.
Design and Implementation
2.    This was a hybrid loan involving a fast disbursing component in support of trade,
industrial and financial sector reforms; a credit line; and technical assistance component. The
driving force for this loan was to encourage medium- and long-term lending in an economy that
was dependent primarily on short-term credits to finance capital formation. The incorporation
of policy conditionality was aimed at strengthening the market mechanisms responsible for the
development of competitive industrial enterprises. Trade policy reforms would encourage the
development of those productive activities in which the country had a comparative advantage,
while the financial policy reforms would encourage savings as well as long-term lending and
improve the efficiency of financial intermediaries in resource allocation. The critical issues
dealing with design and implementation are summarized below.
Trade policy reforms. The fast disbursing component supported trade policy reforms
implemented before Board presentation. These included: implementation of a revised
import tariff structure; reduction in the number of commodities subject to prior import
authorization, and a first step toward eliminating import prohibitions. On the financial
side, this component supported financial sector reforms, including allowing financial
institutions to use variable rate pricing on loans over one year. This component was
disbursed in October-November 1986. Some trade reforms were subsequently reversed.
A design mistake was not linking continued commitments under the credit line component
to the maintenance of the reforms.



- iii -
Fimancial support of industrial enterprises. The loan targeted industrial investments to
the exclusion of other productive activities. By targeting industrial enterprises, the loan
provided much needed support to the manufacturing sector which had been debilitated
by the 1982-83 recession. Despite a healthy economic recovery during 1984-86, with
average GDP growth of 3.9 percent per annum, the manufacturing sector had declined
at an average rate of 1.1 percent. In this regard, the loan helped to avert a more serious
downturn in the economy by providing a lifeline to this sector of the economy.
However, this targeting may have left without financing viable projects in other sectors,
and contributed to the segmentation of the financial market.
Exchange rate risk. A critical feature of the loan was the Government's undertaling of
the exchange rate risk associated with the sub-loans to the investment enterprises (IE).
Demand for subloans was very strong because they provided a hedge against devaluation,
and in consequence, the Government incurred a substantial foreign exchange loss after
the ensuing devaluations. Economic losses arise from conversion of sucres into dollars
whenever service payments were made. Some of the losses have not yet been realized,
but have been accruing as a result of the differential in the exchange rate between the
time of loan disbursement and when the loan is repaid. As of year-end 1992, the net
losses to the Borrower from debt service payments as well as the accumulated translation
losses amounted to about US$32.6 million.  The ultimate impact of these losses will
depend on the evolution of currency relationships over the full repayment period of the
loan.
Interest rate policy. Loan conditionality dealing with interest rate policy was aimed at
rationalizing Ecuador's managed interest rate structure. The definition in the loan of
which interest rates were to be positive in real terms was not practical. This was a
second-best approach due to the reluctance of the Ecuadoran Government to liberalize
interest rates fully. The Borrower failed to comply with these criteria resulting in the
Bank's decision to interrupt new commitments in March 1988. When finally the
Government adopted a new interest rate policy that was more congruent with the loan's
corditionality, loan commitments were resumed in May 1989.
Technical assistance (TA). The TA component of the loan was directed primarily at
financial intermediaries in the areas of staff training and project evaluation. It was
intended to enhance the technical capabilities of financial institutions in loan evaluation
and supervision, and of banking supervisors in the examination of finance companies.
In the case of the BCE, the assigned TA project called for the calculation of shadow
prices for the economy. This was not seen as a priority area by the Borrower, and
eventually, this part of the TA component was reoriented to the acquisition of computers
by the BCE. In view of the problems with interest rate policy, a more pertinent TA
project might have included the preparation of studies on the economic impact of
alternative interest rate regimes, or analysis of the flow of funds in the economy. The
SB made good use of the TA resources to train its staff; but the SC did not use the
funds. With the exception of training seminars, TA implementation was sluggish. The



- 1v -
disappointing results were due to weakness in design and to lack of response by the
beneficiaries.
Results and Sustainability
3.    Overall, the results of the project were satisfactory. The fast disbursing component of
the loan--category A--was utilized pretty much on schedule. It facilitated the importation of
essential intermediate and capital goods imports. There was some early backtracking in the trade
reforms supported by this component, which had been announced prior to loan approval.
However, the Bank's prodding in this area under this operation and continued through economic
and sector work, as well as under a subsequent Bank credit line operation , was instrumental
in the Government's eventual implementation of significant trade reforms in 1990. The
interruption of new loan commitments in 1988, due to non-compliance with the interest policy
conditionality, induced the Government to adopt a formula securing positive real lending rates.
Full liberalization of interest rates was adopted in September 1992. Similarly, although modest
in scope, the trade and financial policy reforms initiated under this project were the beginning
of a liberalization process that has substantially improved the investment environment in
Ecuador.
4.    This project enhanced long-term credit availability in the economy, particularly at a time
of serious liquidity constraints brought on by a downfall in export earnings during 1986-88.
Based on reported statistics, the project's Category Bl component financed 103 sub-loans for
a total amount of US$66.4 million, or an average of US$645,000 per sub-loan. Most of the sub-
loans were extended to relatively large corporations that were good corporate customers of the
financial intermediaries. A little over 50 percent of the loan amount was distributed among five
industrial sectors as follows: basic metals manufacturing, 15.6 percent; fishing, 14.8 percent;
food processing, 8.2 percent; chemicals, 7.4; and textiles, 6.3 percent. The majority of the sub-
loans went to companies that sold primarily to the domestic market.
5.    One of the positive features of the loan was the relatively low incidence of problem
loans. A factor contributing to the high quality of the loan portfolio was the ongoing
relationship between the IEs and the participating financial institutions (PFIs). In most instances
the lender was already familiar with the prospective borrower in the context of providing
banking services, although not necessarily long-term loans. PFIs appear to have benefitted from
the net interest spreads produced by the loans to IEs. Performance of the TA component was
adequate, although the Borrower's handling of this component was unsatisfactory.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.      The following are some of the main lessons learned from this project:
lThe Bank and the Ecuadoran authorities carried out a fruitful dialogue on trade reform in
the context of a proposed Trade Reform Loan that did not materialize.



Policy conditionality To prevent retrogression of policy reforms in mixed operations
or credit lines with up-front policy reforms, the legal documents should clearly link
continuation of commitments to a satisfactory assessment, during a mid-term review, of
the maintenance of the agreed reforms. In this loan, there was some backtracking of the
trade policy reforms implemented before Board presentation of the loan. Once the fast
disbursing component had been disbursed, the Bank had little leverage to use the credit
component to prevent the reversal of the reforms.
Interest rates market determined. Future operations of this type should only be
undertaken if interest rates are fully market determined. In those cases where rates are
subject to control but to a modest extent, strict conditionality should apply regarding the
dismantling of all remaining market distortions.
Exchange rate risk. In this loan, the Government experienced a substantial foreign
exchange loss. This loss was the result of lending the Bank funds in sucres when both,
interest rates and exchange rates were not fully market determined. Interest rates,
therefore, did not reflect devaluation expectations. Under these conditions, it is difficult
to estimate the premium that the Government should charge to cover the foreign
exchange risk. Under ideal conditions of market determined interest and exchange rates,
a foreign exchange premium could be determined that would compensate for future
changes in the exchange rate; and the results would be indifferent whether the
Government or the final borrower assumes the foreign exchange rate.
Supervision. Borrower's compliance with policy conditionality should be closely
monitored. Despite warnings during the first supervision mission that the Government
was reneging on trade measures, and concern over the impact from the collapse of oil
prices on the economy, the monitoring process failed to anticipate adequately the
problems that later led to the interruption of new commitments. Loans need to be
classified much sooner as to potential non-compliance problems. Complex projects
involving policy conditionality and onlending activities generate competing requirements
on Bank supervision. The Bank should be ready to allocate considerable supervision
resources to this type of project.
Technical assistance. Weakness in several areas compromised the otherwise beneficial
effects of the TA. In order to reinforce the role of TA in the future, the following needs
to be addressed: (i) more attention needs to be paid to the organizational aspects of TA
such as the selection of beneficiary agencies, and their willingness to pay for the TA
funds; (ii) greater efforts are needed to solicit timely responses from the beneficiary
agencies in order to complete the projects within the allotted time frame; (iii) design of
TA should be more compatible with loan objectives and realistic in terms of availability
of resources on the part of the beneficiary agency to accomplish the task.
Ex-post economic/financial analysis of loans. The information provided by the PFIs in
preparation of this PCR was spotty and in some cases not forthcoming. Greater ex-post



- vi -
analysis of subloans should be required from the PFIs. Either for each loan or for a
selected sample, a more detailed analysis of rates of return, employment creation, and
exports generated should be performed. This analysis should attempt to explain the
variances between ex-ante and ex-post performance.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2672-EC)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identities
1.1         Project Name                   Industrial Finance Project
Loan Number                    2672-EC
RVP Unit                       LA4TF
Country                        Ecuador
Sector                         Finance and Industry
B.    Background2
1.2   Ecuador had entered the 1970's as one of the least developed Latin American countries.
In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Amazon region and in 1972 the country became
a net oil exporter. In 1973 world oil prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings doubled.
During the 1970's, Ecuadoran income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate
unprecedented in its history. By 1983 per capita GNP had risen to US$1,430, placing Ecuador
firmly among the Bank's middle-income borrowers.
1.3  During 1981/82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil prices began to decline.
Export earnings fell by about 8 percent in 1982. Despite a reduced volume of imports, the
current account deficit of the balance of payments exceeded US$1 billion, about 9 percent of
GDP. To finance it, the authorities borrowed short-term and used up about US$460 million of
the country's international reserves, almost depleting them in the process. When the economic
downturn worsened in 1983, Ecuador had to manage with severely limited financial resources
as foreign banks restricted their net, new lending to US$430 million. To make matters worse,
the Nifio current's climatic shifts, which had inflicted some damage in 1982, continued to ravage
the countryside with floods.
1.4   The authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis were, for the most part, prompt and in
the right direction. First, they dealt with the exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued
for the first time since 1970 and thereafter it was frequently adjusted. Second, they dealt with
the liquidity crisis by temporarily prohibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating
2 Based on: President's Report, March 1986. This section describes the principal economic
and financial system trends prior to loan approval.



principal on the external private and public debt. Negotiations with the commercial banks for
a multi-year rescheduling covering maturities falling due in 1985-1989 were concluded in
December 1985; a Paris Club agreement was reached in April 1985 to reschedule official debt
falling due between 1985-1987. Temporary import restrictions were eliminated as the liquidity
of the BCE improved.
1.5    A fiscal austerity program was put in place 1983 in cooperation with the IMF. The
public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in
1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984. Ecuador also complied with the rest of the IMF program.
Partly as a result, inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 23 percent; the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. A subsequent IMF
program--a one year SDR 105.5 million stand-by for 1985/1986--also prodded the Government
to achieve a public sector surplus equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP in 1985 by raising
revenues and holding down expenditures. The exchange rates of the official and intervention
markets were also unified, and inflation fell to an annualized rate about 14 percent during the
last half of 1985.
1.6   The Manufacturing Sector. At the time of loan appraisal, manufacturing remained at an
early stage of development. Activities such as food processing, textiles, and wood processing
accounted for about three-quarters of manufacturing value added. Most production was sold in
the domestic market and was highly dependent upon imported inputs. The manufacturing sector
had accounted for about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, and in 1983 it employed about
320,000 workers (11 percent of the work force). During the economic expansion from 1972 to
1982, manufacturing was Ecuador's leading growth sector, expanding at an average annual real
rate of 9.5 percent. However, the growth of manufacturing value added fell from 6.9 percent
in 1982 to a negative 1.9 percent in 1983, reflecting the impact of economic recession, severe
shortages of raw materials resulting from import restrictions and poor weather conditions, and
the lack of foreign as well as domestic credit. The manufacturing sector's contribution to exports
was minimal during the 1970's. This situation was largely due to the anti-export bias of the
import substituting policies adopted by the country.
1.7   More than 80 percent of manufacturing employment and of manufacturing value added
was generated by firms located in Guayaquil and Quito. Firms in the Guayaquil area accounted
for the major shares of food, paper, and chemical industries, while firms in the Quito area
concentrated on textiles, wood products, metal products, machinery and equipment. Lack of
appropriate infrastructure for industrial development in the rest of the country apparently
prevented a wider geographical location of industry, offsetting the impact of Government
incentives aimed at encouraging industrial growth away from the country's traditional growth
centers. Manufacturing industry was also characterized by a small, modem oligopolistic
segment of import substituting industries that had been superimposed on a largely traditional
sector where small firms prevailed. In most industries less than four firms controlled between
50 and 95 percent of the domestic market.



1.8   Policy Environment. Investment incentives were established by the Law of Industrial
Incentives of 1957; the core of the law emphasized the development of import-substitution
industries. Trade policies provided high tariffs for final consumer goods and low tariffs for raw
materials, intermediate, and capital goods. Protection from imports was also provided through
numerous quantitative restrictions, import prohibitions and prior authorization for imports. This
policy framework and, until 1982, the fixed exchange rate for inputs and machinery imports,
provided high effective protection to domestic industry, encouraged capital-intensive industries,
and hindered the development of export-oriented activities.
1.9 In an effort to streamline industrial incentives and encourage manufacturing exports, more
intensive use of domestic resources and better use of installed capacity, new regulations for the
Industrial Incentive Law were issued in January 1985. Major reforms included: (i) granting of
tax benefits based on export performance; (ii) reductions of income tax exonerations, especially
for sectors with excess capacity, thereby eliminating a major inducement for the current
oligopolistic structure of the manufacturing sector; and (iii) a progressive reduction of tariff
exonerations for raw materials and intermediate products--over a maximum period of 4 years
for existing enterprises, and of 10 years for new enterprises.
1.10  In the context of the preparation of a proposed Bank trade policy reform loan, the
Government introduced a revised tariff structure in January 1986. Import tariff peaks were
reduced from a maximum (including all surcharges) of 220 percent to 100 percent, and tariff
dispersion was reduced so that over 75 percent of commodities had, at the time of loan approval,
tariffs of 70 percent or less. This implied reductions of average tariffs and tariff dispersion by
about 30 percent and 50 percent, respectively. The reductions in nominal tariff levels on final
products, together with the progressive reduction of tariff exonerations on imported inputs and
raw materials, significantly reduced levels of effective protection.
1.11 The Financial Sector. The main institutions in Ecuador's financial system were the
Central Bank (BCE), 32 private commercial banks with about 285 branches; 3 state banks--the
National Development Bank (BNF), the Ecuadoran Housing Bank (BEV), and the Ecuadoran
Development Bank (BEDE)--and 13 finance corporations, including the public National Finance
Corporation (CFN). There were also 11 savings and loans associations; more than 25 insurance
companies; and various currency exchange offices and securities markets in Guayaquil and
Quito. The Social Security Institute (IESS) was also a major depository for financial savings.
As a group, commercial banks dominated Ecuador's financial system, and their outstanding loan
portfolio represented 75 percent of total lending to non-bank borrowers.
1.12   In Ecuador, the Monetary Board sets exchange rate, interest rate, and other financial
policies which are implemented by the BCE and the Superintendency of Banks. At the time,
BCE also provided credit to financial intermediaries, including special discount credit lines. The
Superintendency of Banks supervises financial intermediaries and is responsible for publishing
statistical information on the banking system.



- 4 -
1.13 The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970's, mainly because bank ownership granted
access to profitable BCE credit lines and because guarantees for foreign loans to the private
sector grew rapidly and appeared profitable. In addition, negative real interest rates charged to
final borrowers--attractive margins and commissions for intermediaries stimulated lending
growth. Under such conditions, financial institutions neglected to mobilize domestic resources
on their own. The financial system became all the more fragile because easy granting of bank
licenses led to the establishment of many small, inefficient and undercapitalized banks.
1.14 Between 1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21 to 32, and
finance companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave liquidity problems beginning in
1983 as foreign resources dwindled and economic conditions deteriorated. Combined with the
devaluation of the sucre, these factors diminished the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-
denominated obligations guaranteed by the banks.  To help financial intermediaries, the
Government carried out a "sucretization" program under which BCE assumed foreign debts and
the participating institutions became obligated to repay BCE in sucres over a period of up to
seven years. While this program averted a liquidity crisis, one of its legacies was that BCE
credit in 1983 financed about 35 percent of the commercial banks' and up to 60 percent of
finance companies' portfolios.
1.15  Prior to the mid-1980's, interest rates were set exclusively by the Monetary Board.
Interest rates changes were insufficiently responsive to the country's rapidly changing
economic/financial environment. During periods of low inflation the prescribed interest rates
were moderately positive in inflation adjusted terms. However, the inflationary spiral beginning
in 1982 quickly turned the balance against depositors. The resulting periods of negative real
interest rates discouraged domestic savings and fomented capital outflows.
1.16 The first step towards market-determined interest rates occurred in December 1984, when
the Monetary Board allowed banks to set their own rates on Certificates of Deposits (P6lizas de
Acumulaci6n) and Financial Certificates. However, the freeing up of rates on these key deposit
instruments heightened interest rate risk for financial institutions that were gathering short-term
deposits and redeploying these funds as longer term loans. The Monetary Board responded to
this problem by allowing financial institutions to use variable rate pricing on loans over one
year. Subsequently, rate ceilings were lifted on selected loan operations. These measures
diminished some of the distortions in the rate structure, although negative real rates were still
prevalent for those instruments subject to controlled rates. This hodgepodge approach of
liberalizing some rates but not others aggravated the distortions arising from the disparity
between the free and the controlled rates; and greatly complicated the process of asset/liability
management at financial institutions.
1.17 The gradual dismantling of the interest rate regime eventually led to the decision to tie
the lending rates directly to a reference or cost of funds rate. For this purpose, the Monetary
Board chose the freely negotiated interest rates on deposits (tasa de libre contrataci6n). The
authorities devised a formula to calculate a reference rate from the aforementioned deposit
instruments and established a legal limit on the spread which commercial banks could apply to



this reference rate in order to determine the lending rate that the borrower would pay on the
loan. In August 1988, partly as a result of this loan's conditionality, the Government introduced
a ceiling of 19 percentage points on spreads between passbook saving rates and lending rates.
However, at that time passbook savings rates were considered unresponsive to market forces and
thus not representative of the banks' marginal cost of funds. Because of this, the Govemment
modified the system of spreads in April, 1989 by allowing commercial banks to set their lending
rate at 15 percentage points above a reference base equal to the arithmetic average of the 90 day
CD rate and their respective passbook savings rate.
1.18  Even though the piecemeal liberalization of interest rates which began in the early 1980's
introduced greater flexibility in the negotiation of financial instruments, this did not assure that
interest rates became freely market determined. BCE's and financial institutions' preferential
rates, as well as rates on loans funded through external resources, continued to be administered
by the Monetary Board. At the same time, the fact that certain deposit rates were to be
negotiated between the banks and their customers did not necessarily imply that these rates were
market determined rates. The huge gap between inflation rates and the freely negotiated deposit
interest rates during 1989 could have been caused by rigidities in the financial system's
mechanism for setting rates.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
1.19 The project was identified by the Bank in October 1984 and was prepared by the
Government with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in July 1985. Negotiations for the
proposed project took place in Washington from January 15-22, 1986.
1.20 The project's objectives were to: (i) support changes in trade, industrial and financial
policy; (ii) continue encouraging more efficient domestic resource mobilization and allocation
through an adequate interest rate structure; (iii) strengthen the financial condition of financial
intermediaries; (iv) provide term credit for efficient industrial development; and (v) provide
technical assistance (TA) to: the Central Bank (BCE) to derive shadow prices for more effective
project evaluation; the Superintendency of Banks (SB) and the Superintendency of Companies
(SC) to strengthen their supervisory capabilities; and the Association of Finance Companies
(AFIN) to strengthen their project evaluation capabilities.
1.21 The loan consisted of two parts. Part "A" financed essential imports in support of a
series of measures already taken to liberalize trade, industrial and financial sector policies.
These measures represented initial steps to reorient Ecuador's model of industrial development
towards a more efficient one, and strengthen the capacity of the financial system to mobilize and
allocate domestic resources more effectively.
1.22 Part "B" provided long-term loan funds to finance two distinct components: (i) financing
of private manufacturing investments in fixed assets and permanent working capital; and (ii)
financing of TA for BCE, SB and AFIN, described in para. 1.20.



- 6 -
1.23 The loan was made to the Republic of Ecuador. The Government, through BCE as its
agent, was to onlend the proceeds from part "B" of the loan to participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs), except for the TA component. PFIs were to onlend these resources to
investment enterprises (IEs) at the rates established from time-to-time by the Monetary Board.
The revenues from the difference between the rates charged to IEs (minus the spreads charged
by PFIs and BCE's fee as financial agent) and the Bank rate, was expected to cover, in whole
or in part, the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
1.24 Sub-loans for fixed assets would be made for up to 12 years, including up to 4 years of
grace; and for permanent working capital for up to 6 years, including 2 years of grace. Lending
rates for individual sub-loans would be based on interest rates determined from time-to-time by
the Monetary Board. The Government agreed to maintain interest rates on all loans to the
industrial sector positive in real terms. The Government would review with the Bank the
adequacy of the level of lending rates at least semi-annually, beginning October 1, 1986. It
would also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial resource
mobilization, based on criteria agreed with the Bank. The adequacy of the spreads for the PFIs
would also be reviewed periodically.
1.25 A summary of the loan's terms and conditions is provided as an Annex.
D.   Project Design and Organization
1.26  The project contained a wide range of objectives which included: (i) reforming trade and
financial policy; (ii) strengthening the financial system through opportunities for intermediation
as well as through TA to reinforce the analytical, supervisory and evaluation capabilities of
financial institutions and regulators; and (iii) enhancing the availability of medium and long term
credit to industrial enterprises. The conditionality specified under the fast disbursing component
of the loan (Category A) appropriately identified critical areas for improvement in the
management of economic policies. The emphasis on the liberalization of import controls and
tariffs was aimed at improving competitive conditions in the economy and promoting exporting
activity by improving access of local companies to imported inputs. By targeting industrial
enterprises, the loan provided much needed support to the manufacturing sector which had been
debilitated by the 1982-83 recession. Nevertheless, the Bank was appropriately flexible in the
definition of industries to include agro-industries, tourism and fisheries. Despite a healthy
economic recovery during 1984-86 with average GDP growth of 3.9 percent per annum, the
manufacturing sector had declined at an average rate of 1.1 percent. The principal impediments
to the recovery in the manufacturing sector had been the lack of domestic credit to finance
investments in fixed assets, and an acute shortage of foreign exchange to purchase machinery
and equipment as well as essential imported inputs.
1.27 The driving force for this loan was to encourage medium- and long-term lending in an
economy that was dependent primarily on short-term credits to finance capital formation. It was
designed to channel long-term funding to industrial enterprises through financial intermediaries.



The lack of adequate long-term financing had been provoked by Ecuador's bout with currency
instabilities and inflationary problems coupled with low interest rates which discouraged
domestic savings. Since consumers restricted their savings to short-term deposits, financial
intermediaries likewise redeployed these funds into loans of short-term maturity to avoid
excessive risks in that volatile economic environment.
1.28 Trade Policy. At appraisal, the US$50 million fast disbursing component of the loan,
was estimated to represent about 2.5 percent of Ecuador's projected 1986 imports. By agreeing
to implement the policy measures prior to loan effectiveness, the borrower was assured
immediate access to these funds. This was one of the positive features of the loan. Following
the cutoff from commercial bank financing in 1982, the foreign exchange position of the country
had deteriorated sharply. Foreign exchange reserves prior to loan approval represented a paltry
two months of imports of goods and services. This was inadequate, in the absence of bank
credits, to sustain growth of imports during an economic recovery. In 1985 imports of goods
were 26 percent below the corresponding 1982 figure. The fast disbursing component of the
loan was thus designed to relieve the acute shortage of essential imported goods. It was also felt
that these funds would be needed to cover the expected increased demand for imports arising
from the import liberalization measures.
1.29 Exchange Rate Risk. A critical feature of the loan was the Government's undertalcing
of the exchange rate risk associated with the sub-loans to the investment enterprises. This
decision was motivated by the losses incurred by financial institutions and private sector
companies in previous devaluations. Before 1983, banks had borrowed in dollars in order to
finance domestic companies in local currency, knowingly undertaking the full extent of the
foreign exchange risk. The 1983 maxi-devaluation curtailed the commercial banks' ability to
meet their external debt obligations and the Government had to bail them out by "sucretizing"
their external debt; that is, converting the dollar loans into sucres and assuming the dollar
liability to the foreign creditors. With this background, and in view of the prospects of
imminent currency instability at the time of appraisal, it was decided to denominate the
subsidiary and sub-loans in sucres. Otherwise, it was felt that demand for these loans would be
minimal since neither the investment enterprises nor the financial intermediaries would be willing
to take on the additional exchange rate risk. In retrospect this became a loan design problem.
Demand for sub-loans from investment enterprises was very strong because they provided a
hedge against devaluation, and as a result, the Government incurred a substantial foreign
exchange loss after the ensuing devaluations. In view of similar experiences with loans in
countries where interest rates and exchange rates are not fully market determined, the staff
should have been aware of the potential for sizeable foreign exchange losses, irrespective of
whether the exchange risk was assumed by the Government or the ultimate borrower.
1.30 Interest Rate Policy. The design of the loan conditionality dealing with interest rate
policy was aimed at rationalizing Ecuador's complex and incompatible interest rate structure.
It was a noble effort that was unfortunately plagued with design problems which were mostly
due to the idiosyncracies of Ecuador's interest rate policies, and the difficulty of defining
"rational" interest rates. Under the Loan Agreement certain interest rates were to be positive



in real terms. Interest rates on sub-loans as well as other long-term interest rates (2 years or
more) on loans to the manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries, and tourism sectors were to be
tested under the real rates condition. However, this was not a practical definition since the
interest rates that are regulated by the Monetary Board are not classified by economic sectors
but rather by type of lending operation such as preferential or standard lending rates. This
discrepancy complicated the application of the real interest rate test which instead should have
been applied to the specific rates used by the Monetary Board.
1.31  Based on a mutually agreed interpretation of the Loan Agreement, the Bank and the
Government specified certain indicators that would be used in testing interest rate policy
compliance. Each rate subject to the real interest rate test was to be compared to the 90 day CD
rate or the seasonally adjusted annual rate of inflation.
1.32  Another complication with the interest rate test was that the affected rates were to be
adjusted to reflect the overall cost of monies to borrowers including commissions, fees, taxes
and the dates on which all amounts are payable. While this calculation would have been more
accurate in measuring the all-in cost of funds to the final borrower, the heterogeneity of terms
applied by financial institutions to some of these components made the application of this
formula unwieldy. A partial adjustment was made to reflect the payment of interest on an
annual yield basis; however, this fell short of the comprehensive method prescribed by the Loan
Agreement.
1.33  Despite the shortcomings in the specification as well as the calculation of the effective
interest rates, the loan's policy conditionality achieved the goal of initiating the liberalization of
the interest rate environment. The real problem with interest rate policy was the mismatch
between freely determined and administered rates on both sides of the balance sheet, and not the
difference between the nominal and the effective rates. In this regard, the Bank correctly
emphasized the implementation of market-determined instruments for setting rates as the
financial policy objective; this subsequently proved to be successful.
1.34 Sub-lenders. The selection of participating financial institutions was limited to finance
companies. During 1984-85, the three principal sources of medium and long-term credit (over
one year) were: commercial banks with 66 percent; private finance companies with 26 percent;
and Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional (CFN) with 8 percent. The loan sought to increase the
share of finance companies in medium and long-term financing, and to buttress their financial
condition by ensuring a profitable margin from the spread charged on these operations.
1.35 The six largest private finance companies which participated in the Fifth Development
Banking Project (Loan 2096-EC) and CFN were examined in detail, including an analysis of
their loan portfolio, based on their external audit reports. Clean audit opinions were issued
during the period for all the finance companies except for FINANSA and CFN for which
qualifications were made concerning the recoverability of certain loans and the adequacy of the
reserves for loan losses. Based on these factors, three of the private finance companies were
considered to be in relatively good financial condition at end-1984, and three others were



- 9 -
instructed to take major steps to increase capital and loan loss provisions in order to qualify for
the participation in the loan. Of these, five made the final cut for pre-qualification which were:
ECUFINSA, FINANQUIL, FINANSA, FINANSUR, and FINIBER.
1.36 The eligibility criteria for finance companies were adequate in terms of typical conditions
developed for these types of loans. Of the four ratios: capital adequacy, liquidity, earnings, and
credit concentration, the weakest was capital adequacy which was not surprising in view of the
serious financial crisis at the end of 1982. The loan established additional criteria for monitoring
of financial institutions, which included: (i) semi-annual review of eligibility criteria for each
participating finance company; (ii) review of operating expenses, provisions for doubtful
accounts and real rates of return on equity in order to assess the adequacy of the spread given
to the intermediary; and (iii) compliance by CFN and the government with a plan of action to
strengthen CFN.
1.37 Technical Assistance. The TA component of the loan was intended primarily to enhance
the technical capabilities of financial institutions in loan evaluation and supervision, and of
banking supervisors in the examination of finance companies. The TA was made available to
three types of entities as follows: the BCE to set up a unit to calculate shadow prices in the
economy; the SB and SC for staff training; and the financial intermediaries to strengthen project
evaluation.
1.38 There were some design mistakes in the TA component. The BCE was not the
appropriate entity to have performed the calculation of shadow prices due to lack of personnel
with expertise in project evaluation which is more likely to be found in a development bank or
an academic research organization. BCE officials proposed to drop the study and use the TA
funds to acquire hardware and software to improve its data gathering mechanisms. In view of
the problems with interest rate policy, it would have been more pertinent to have included in the
TA component the preparation of studies on the economic impact of alternative interest rate
regimes, or analysis of the flow of funds in the economy. Another design mistake of the TA
component was the decision to charge the TA executing agencies the same interest rates that
applied to subprojects. When at a later stage of loan implementation interest rates became
market determined, the executing agencies found that the TA funds were expensive and
requested their cancellation.
E.    Project Implementation
1.39 One of the critical elements in loan implementation was the unexpected worsening of the
economic environment. The collapse of oil prices in 1986, followed by a major earthquake in
March 1987, produced a severe shortage of foreign exchange that was further aggravated by the
Government's delayed response to the crisis. In August 1986, the liberalization of exchange
rates triggered maxi-devaluations that fueled inflationary pressures.  The 1987 earthquake
severely damaged the oil pipeline, as well as roads and structures in the north and northeast
regions of the country. The authorities had to divert the dwindling foreign exchange reserves
to pay for the repairs to the country's infrastructure. External debt service was thus suspended.



- 10 -
These events contributed in large part to the variances with respect to the targets for policy
measures contained in the Agreement.
1.40 Fast Disbursing Component. Category A funds, the fast disbursing component to support
implementation of economic measures, were disbursed during October - November 1986. The
trade policy measures supported by the loan: elimination of import prohibitions, reduction in
prior import authorizations, and revision of import tariffs, had been announced prior to loan
approval. However, a Bank mission in mid-1986 discovered some backtracking by the
Government which had re-introduced import restrictions. The Bank did not consider this
backtracking in trade reform grave enough to suspend disbursement of the fast disbursing
component. Subsequent discussions between the Bank and the Minister of Industry and
Commerce led to the elimination of prior import restrictions for 100 to 150 items. Nevertheless,
the Minister's response was far short of what had been committed during the negotiations. One
of the reasons given by the Government for the delay in trade policy reforms was the collapse
of oil prices which had severely constrained the availability of foreign exchange reserves.
1.41 Despite Government assurances, the hiatus in trade policy reforms went beyond the 1986-
87 period of foreign exchange crisis. The postponement of the trade reform measures sapped
the loan of its structural benefits of contributing to a more competitive export-oriented industrial
sector. Counter to the loan's objectives, some of the sub-loans were actually applied to finance
protected domestic industries. Despite these shortcomings, the Bank's persistence in this area
contributed to the eventual success of trade policy reforms in Ecuador. Decisive action was
finally taken in 1990, when the Government adopted a comprehensive tariff reduction program
that was to bring the average tariff rate down to 12 percent in 1992.
1.42 Credit Line Component. The disbursement of the credit line component of the loan
occurred at a time when the private sector was being squeezed out of the domestic credit markets
and forced to seek the much more onerous terms on external borrowing, when available. The
liquidity crisis stimulated demand for sub-loans. By December 1988 disbursements under the
credit component amounted to US$50.2 million, about 78 percent of the available funds.
1.43  The management of interest rate policy was not consistent with the conditions established
in the Loan Agreement. The following two criteria: that interest rates be positive in real terms,
and that interest rate and financial policies should be consistent with an adequate level of
resource mobilization, were not complied with. Due to the magnitude of the deviations, and the
lack of adequate response to the Bank's requests for remedial action by the Government, the
Bank stopped new commitments (subloan approvals) in March 1988.  However, loan
disbursements for committed projects continued. Loan commitments resumed in May 1989,
after the Government had adopted a new policy that was more consistent with positive real
interest rates. Effective August 1988, the Government introduced a formula rate for domestic
lending operations to be determined by the passbook savings rate plus a maximum spread of 19
percentage points. Since the passbook savings rate was not considered truly market-determined,
in April 1989, the formula was changed to the average of the 90 day CD and passbook savings



- 11 -
rates plus a maximum spread of 15 percentage points. By blocking loan commitments, the Bank
was influential in the Government's decision to reform its interest rate policy.
1.44 While the adoption of a new loan pricing formula was an important step in improving the
response of the financial system to market forces, it was not applied across the board to the
different lending categories. Initially, only financial institutions' standard loans funded by freely
negotiated deposit instruments such as CD's and savings accounts, were subject to the formula
rate. Technically, this meant that the Borrower was still in non-compliance after commitments
were resumed in 1989. The Loan Agreement had called for positive real interest rates on sub-
loans as well all other long-term loans to the manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries or tourism
sectors. As shown in Table 5, rates on sub-loans met the conditions--to exceed the lower of the
inflation rate or the 90 day CD minus 2 percentage points after December, 1988; however, the
maximum lending rate as well as the financial institutions' preferential and external funds rates
did not pass the test until February 1991. Interest rates were fully liberalized in September
1992.
1.45 The role of the PFIs appears to have been satisfactory. However, out of eight finance
companies, only three met the eligibility criteria initially. One of the principal obstacles to
participation by the finance companies was the magnitude of their credit concentration either to
one company or an affiliated group of companies. The Loan Agreement prescribed a credit
concentration limit initially of 35 percent of capital.  The periodic review of financial
intermediaries was supposed to have been performed by the BCE; however, it did not comply
with this condition due to lack of qualified staff and resources to conduct the analysis.
1.46 The lending process was comprised of three stages. The first was to prepare a business
plan and feasibility study to accompany the credit application which could take from two to three
months. The second was the actual loan approval by the PFI which was usually done within a
month. And third, after approving the credit, the PFI had to obtain BCE approvals for the loan
as well as the necessary import permits, and then the BCE had to submit the project to the Bank
for disbursement approval. Some IEs complained of a long drawn out process; while others,
which were faced with subsequent credit needs as a result of currency devaluations and which
could not delay the importation of equipment and raw materials, resorted to bank lines
collateralized by their foreign deposits rather than undergo the long approval process.
1.47 The so-called "sucretization" of the loan complicated the loan approval process. When
the PFI approved a sub-loan to finance the foreign exchange component of an investment
project, it had to use an estimated exchange rate in order to set the loan amount in sucres. The
loan was then submitted to the BCE and the Bank for corresponding approvals which could take
up to two or more months. If the exchange rate at the time of final loan-approvals significantly
exceeded the estimated rate used initially by the PFI, the IE would not be able to cover its
foreign purchases. At this point there were three options: first, the IE could absorb the
difference with internal funds; second, the PFI could grant the company the additional amount
in sucres to complete the purchase price of the imports; or third, the IE could solicit a
complementary credit using the Bank's funds. Some companies absorbed the additional cost



- 12 -
rather than go through an extended credit approval process. In other cases, PFIs dealing with
a good creditworthy customer were willing to extend the difference. However, those companies
that had to apply for a complementary credit faced significant delays.
1.48 Technical Assistance Component. With the exception of training seminars, the
implementation of the TA component was sluggish. The disappointing results were due to
weakness in design and to lack of response by the beneficiaries. The design problems resulted
from insufficient identification of the basic needs of the four entities: AFIN, SB, SC and the
BCE. Response to the TA program was delayed by controversy over the cost of the funds, by
the availability of competing projects from other international agencies, and by staff turnover
at one of the beneficiary agencies. Eventually, three of the entities: AFIN, SB and BCE utilized
most of the TA assigned to them, but the SC failed to respond to a request for preparation of
a terms of reference. When the superintendent that had initially been involved in the design of
the project resigned, interest dwindled and the agency subsequently withdrew its participation.
In addition, due to a design oversight, the TA funds were priced at the rates applicable to the
sub-loans, which included a five percentage point spread to PFIs. Controversy over this issue
delayed the successful implementation of this component and led to the eventual cancellation of
part of it.
1.49 Under the TA program, the BCE was assigned a project to estimate a set of shadow
prices for the economy even though this type of analysis was not within its realm of monetary
policy. From the start, BCE was slow to respond to initial requests for a terms of reference to
advance the estimate of a set of economic prices. BCE officials finally replied that due to under-
staffing it would not be able to undertake the study. They also pointed to previous studies which
already contained partial estimates of economic prices. Subsequently, BCE officials proposed
using the funds to improve the computer network. The Bank concurred and the Loan Agreement
was amended accordingly.
1.50  AFIN showed little interest in the proposed TA project. Initially, it complained that the
funds were too expensive. Notwithstanding their concern over costs, their interest in the Bank's
program had been diminished by an earlier IDB/CAF loan which provided for a similar training
program. Later on, AFIN turned to USAID for technical support. The lack of participation by
AFIN's membership in the loan, only two of ten AFIN members participated, was a factor in
the low level of interest in the program. Despite these shortcomings, AFIN finally carried out
a training program on project evaluation.
1.51 The SB was more amenable to technical training. The first phase consisted of a training
program at the Federal Reserve Bank in Washington. In response to the Superintendency's
concern that supervisory staff needed more training in bank supervision, the Bank revised the
original terms of reference to give greater emphasis to technical training in this area. A
consultant was also hired to assist in the development of new rules on capital requirements, the
enhancement of asset quality standards, and the strengthening of the analysis of non-performing
assets.



- 13 -
F.    Project Results
1.52  The main accomplishments of the Industrial Finance Project were:
(a) providing long-term finance for a number of enterprises for which no other significant
sources of finance existed. Based on reported statistics, the project's Category B1 component
financed 103 sub-loans for a total amount of US$66.4 million, or an average of US$645,000 per
sub-loan. The corresponding figure based on Bank disbursements was US$60.3 million. The
difference is due mostly to the effect of devaluations which occurred after a sub-loan was
approved by a financial intermediary in sucres and presented to the Bank for approval. This
differential was subsequently either absorbed by the IE from its own resources, or compensated
for by the PFI through an addition to the original line of credit.
-Most of the sub-loans were extended to relatively large corporations that were good
corporate customers of the PFIs. Credits above US$0.5 million represented 80 percent
of the total, although no single loan exceeded US$5.0 million.
-A little over 50 percent of the total loan amount was distributed among five industrial
sectors as follows: basic metals manufacturing, 15.6 percent; fishing, 14.8 percent; food
processing, 8.2 percent; chemicals 7.4 percent; and textiles, 6.3 percent.  These
industries accounted for a significant share of GDP; in particular, food and beverage
products represented 5.5 percent of GDP in 1990; textiles 3.6 percent; and fishing 3.0
percent.
-The majority of the sub-loans went to companies that sold primarily to the domestic
market. In a few cases the loans were used to expand capacity for the export market.
The employment effects were modest. Since about two thirds of the projects dealt with
expansion or rehabilitation of existing physical plant, employment generation did not
exceed 5 percent of the existing labor force.
-As required, the expected internal rate of return on all projects over US$1.0 million
exceeded the 12 percent threshold rate. Nevertheless, the reported financial rates of
return were estimates prior to loan implementation and do not reflect the actual results
from the investments
(b) encouraging the mobilization of local resources for investment. The projects'
financing structure varied widely across all IEs. Overall, loan funds and the companies' own
resources financed about an equal share of total project costs (about 45 percent each) with PFIs
and other sources accounting for the remaining portion.
(c) providing financing to viable projects. One of the positive features of the loan was
the relatively low incidence of problem loans. In the case of CFN, arrears jumped to 14.3
percent of total loans during 1989-90; however, these were cleaned up by 1991, when the share
dropped to 3.8 percent. One of the factors contributing to the high quality of the loan portfolio



- 14 -
was the existing relationship between the IEs and the PFIs. In most instances, the lender was
already familiar with the prospective borrower. By risking a sizeable amount of their own
capital in the project, investment enterprises were much more strict about their project selection
criteria. Also, the good quality of the projects can be attributed to the training provided to PFIs
on project evaluation under the project's TA component.
(d) strengthening banking prudential regulation and supervision in Ecuador. The TA
provided to the SB for staff training contributed to converting it in one of the best banking
regulating institutions in Latin America.
1.53  By assuming the exchange rate risk on the loan, the Govemment incurred substantial
losses following the maxi-devaluations of the currency. Demand for the loan had been brisk as
a result of devaluation expectations. The sub-loans were denominated in local currency even
though the proceeds were used to purchase imports. Since the local currency value of the loan
was determined at the time the funds were drawn from the Special Account, the IE was only
exposed to interest rate risk, since the principal amount of the sub-loan was fixed in sucres.
1.54 Exchange rate losses experienced by the Government consisted of three parts: first, the
gains/losses due to the conversion of sucres into dollars whenever debt service payments were
made; and second, the translation losses from converting the principal amount of the loan
outstanding from dollars into sucres. Finally, the crosscurrency losses due to the appreciation
of the US dollar with respect to the other components of the Bank's currency pool. The
Technical Note at the end of this report shows an approximation of the gains/losses accruing
from debt service payments and translation of the principal amount outstanding. It compares the
exchange rate cover premium--which results from deducting the financial intermediary's and the
BCE's spreads from the sub-loan interest rate, to the sucre cost to the BCE for making the debt
service payment to the Bank. To the extent the Borrower realizes a gain from debt service
payments, which would mean that the amount received from the FX rate cover fee exceeded the
actual interest payments, the surplus is assumed to be deposited in a FX rate cover fund. At
year end 1992, the Government had an accumulated gain of about US$48.5 million in the FX
rate cover fund.
1.55  The second component of the exchange rate gains/losses, the translation gains/losses, is
realized only when the Borrower repays principal. In view of the repeated sucre devaluations,
in this case the accumulated amounts are losses which are equal to the difference between the
exchange rate at the time of the repayment and the exchange rate when the sub-loan was
approved. However, the accumulated translation losses will eventually be realized, and thus
must be considered as a liability of the Borrower. Based on the balance outstanding at year-end
1992, the translation losses at that time represented about US$81.1 million. The amount of these
losses will continue to increase as long as there is any balance outstanding on the loan. The
covering of these losses will impose a sizeable burden on the government's finances.
1.56 Since the Borrower had a cumulative gain of US$48.5 million in the FX rate cover fund
as of year-end 1992, the accumulated translation losses could be offset against the fund's



- 15 -
balance.  Therefore, as of December 1992, the Borrower's net exposure represented an
accumulated loss of US$32.6 million; the loss increased to US$43.4 including the effect of
variations in the value of the dollar relative to the Bank's basket of currencies which amounted
to US$10.48 million.
G.   Project Sustainability
1.57 The financial crisis and bouts of inflation that affected Ecuador during 1986-88 seriously
affected the ability of enterprises to obtain medium- and long-term financing. By injecting much
needed financial resources into the economy, this loan provided a boost to the industrial sector
and helped to assure a sustainable recovery. The low incidence of problem loans demonstrates
that risk factors were effectively mitigated by the participating financial intermediaries.
Although the Borrower's non-compliance with policy conditionality disrupted the operation of
the loan during 1988-89, corrective policy measures applied in 1989 put the loan back on track.
Measures taken under this loan to liberalize Ecuador's trade and financial sectors were further
expanded under subsequent Bank operations. This liberalization bodes well for a resumption of
economic growth and the satisfactory performance of this loan's beneficiaries and the success
of the Bank's follow up credit line operation, approved in June 1993 (Private Sector
Development Loan). The assumption of exchange rate risk by the Borrower resulted in a
sizeable fiscal burden. The recognition that these losses cannot be sustained in similar projects
has convinced the Government to require that loans from multilateral institutions should be
onlent in the currency of these loans, to avoid the Govemment having to assume future exchange
losses. This principle was applied to the Private Sector Development Loan, which was a US
dollar single currency loan.
H.   Bank Performance
1.58 Bank performance was a decisive factor in the successful implementation of the loan.
The appraisal mission appropriately identified the policy reforms needed to ensure the success
of an investment operation. Accurate assessment of the critical issues in loan implementation
assured that rigorous criteria were specified for qualifying the PFIs. This helped to ensure the
high quality of sub-loans. By focusing on interest rate policy reforms and then persistently
applying pressures to the Govemment to accomplish this goal, the Bank became an effective
facilitator of policy reforms.
1.59 The complexity of the project generated competing demands on the Bank's supervision
efforts. Despite warnings during the first supervision mission that the Government was reneging
on trade measures, and concern over the impact from the collapse of oil prices on the economy,
the Bank did not react as promptly as required by the severity of the situation. In fact, the
November 1986 supervision mission urged close supervision during the first year and called for
a follow up mission three months later. But the mission arrived after more than six months.
Nevertheless, the Bank responded adequately to exceptional events such as the liquidity crisis
during 1986-88. This response led to an effective reformulation of some of the policy measures



- 16 -
and thus salvaged the original objectives of making long-term credit available to the industrial
sector.
1.60 The Bank was not aggressive enough with respect to the implementation of the TA
component. It appears as though this portion of the project was considered an afterthought to
the two other loan categories. Supervision missions should have been more insistent from the
start in getting adequate response from the participating agencies to the proposed training
programs. Also, the bank did not emphasize the need for ex-post assessment of subprojects by
the PFIs to evaluate the impact of the credit component.
I.    Borrower/ Executing Agencies Performance
1.61  The PFIs duly promoted the loans to their customers. This assured ample demand for
the sub-loans. The high credit quality of the loan portfolio as demonstrated by the low
percentage of non-performing loans reflected very positively on the intermediaries' loan
evaluation and implementation capabilities. The Government laid the foundations for a good
start on the program by having adopted the trade policy measures before the loan was approved
by the Bank. While some of the targets were subsequently missed, Government eventually took
positive action specially with regards to interest rate policy and trade policy reforms. By the
end of 1991, market determined interest rates were much more prevalent than when the loan was
declared effective in 1986. Interest rates were fully liberalized in September 1992. At the same
time, the comprehensive tariff reform initiated in 1991 set the stage for a more open market-
determined approach to international trade that should enhance Ecuador's competitive industries.
1.62 Nonetheless, a number of difficulties encountered by the Government kept the loan from
accomplishing its objectives within the expected time frame. The Government was reactive and
not proactive to policy conditionality as well as the operational aspects of the loan. The policy
measures were not consistently implemented due to lack of commitment or political will to carry
them out. BCE failed to abide by the Loan Agreement in a crucial supervisory role: the
qualification and periodic evaluation of PFIs. BCE staff claimed it did not have the resources
to carry out this assignment. Subsequently, this task had to be undertaken by the Bank.
Excessive delays were encountered at the BCE due to the number of internal mechanisms among
different departments involved in the process, and also to deficient documentation on loans
presented to the BCE by the PFIs. Timely presentation to the Bank of audited reports by the
BCE has been a recurrent problem with this as with other Bank loans.
1.63 Only 5 of the 13 private financial companies in the country qualified to participate in the
loan. Initially, the Bank's evaluation of potential financial institutions revealed significant
problems with under-capitalization as well as credit concentration. The Bank was right in
rejecting the participation of some financial institutions that later went bankrupt. However, in
view of the scarcity of long-term financing in the economy, greater efforts at housecleaning by
some of the financial companies that did not qualify initially should have been forthcoming.
The quality of the information provided by the PFIs in preparation of this PCR was mixed.



- 17 -
CFN's and ECUFINSA's analyses were satisfactory; however, FINEC's was unsatisfactory,
while FINANQUIL failed to provide any information.
1.64 Finally, the response of the executing agencies to the TA component was disappointing.
Despite numerous requests by the Bank for terms of reference on training and other TA aspects,
the affected entities showed little interest in the programs. Complaints of high interest rates on
the use of the funds might have been a factor, but the strong need for TA in the areas of project
evaluation, supervision and asset quality improvement should have induced a more positive
response.
J.    Project Relationship
1.65 Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank were generally cordial. However,
some frictions arose initially over non-compliance of trade and interest rate polices. Lack of
communications resulted in a BCE claim that it was not responsible for periodic review of
financial institutions. Low turnover at participating finance companies contributed to a good
working relationship with the BCE and the Bank. Weaknesses in coordination between various
BCE units involved in the loan review process delayed final disbursements.
K.   Project Documentation and Data
1.66 The appraisal report contained ample information on the economy, the conditions
surrounding the industrial and financial sectors, and projected utilization of the funds. The Loan
Agreement was tightly structured in terms of the various financial vehicles associated with the
on-lending of funds as well as the financial covenants and eligibility standards. However, as
explained before, the interest rate and financial policy conditions were ambiguous, reflecting the
somewhat ambiguous way in which such conditions were addressed in the appraisal Report.
1.67   Neither the Borrower nor the PFIs have done a thorough analysis of the economic
impact of the project's credit component. In addition, the information provided by PFIs in
preparation of this PCR was spotty and in some cases not forthcoming.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLIMON REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJEC
(LOAN 2672-EC)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Evaluation of Bank Performance.
2.1   From the beginning of the project, and up to the end of 1991, the World Bank's
procedure for debt service was to issue Provisional Payment Statements with the information cut
2 months before the due date. The amounts to be paid were, therefore, not final and had to be
adjusted quarterly through an additional payment. This resulted in a significant increase of the
workload to the Central Bank, including performing additional payments to those prepared on
the due dates. This issue was brought to the attention of the World Bank in September 1991,
jointly with other Borrowers, requesting a procedure simplifying debt service administrative
aspects. The requested change was considered and implemented by the World Bank beginning
on January 1, 1992.
2.2   On the other hand, there were delays in the World Bank sending information concerning
subloans approved and disbursed by beneficiary and PFI. This resulted in the Central Bank
collecting the commitment fees on amounts that had been timely disbursed.
2.3   The calculation of capital and interests applied by the World Bank through the currency
pool system, is excessively expensive for the country, since the amounts to be paid are
substantially revalued. Repayments made between December 15, 1990 and June 15, 1993, in
US dollars, were 13 percent higher than the historic values after adjustment for the currency
pool variations.
2.4  It was positive that the World Bank made timely reimbursements of funds to the Special
Account (15 days approximately), as well as direct payments made to the Loan Account.
B.   The Borrower and the Executing Agency.
2.5   During 1988, the Special Account was not enough to cover the demand from the PFIs
due to the volume of applications and amounts submitted to the Central Bank.
2.6   Recommendation: To solve the above indicated situation, it is recommended that for
future loans, the amount assigned to the Special Account be at least 20 percent of the total loan
amount.



- 19 -
2.7   The Central Bank, as Executing Agency of the project, has timely paid the debt service--
this has been acknowledged by the World Bank--despite internal problems to cover the
assignment of resources in sucres by the Ministry of Finance, due to the significant amounts
allocated for exchange rate differentials.
2.8   Recommendation: For future loans, both the Borrower (the Republic of Ecuador) and
the World Bank should consider during negotiations that payment of the exchange rate
differential be assumed by the loan beneficiaries. Failure to do so implies that the National
Government must assume the losses, which result in onerous disbursements with resources from
the national budget.
C.   Relations Between the World Bank and the Borrower.
2.9   Relations with the Bank have been satisfactory with respect to processing applications for
disbursements and payments of the debt service. This speeded up the operating procedures of
the project, with the exception of that indicated under paras. 2.1 to 2.3 above.
2.10 On the other hand, there was permanent communication and monitoring. World Bank
staff visited Ecuador twice to verify the documentation supporting the subloans approved under
the loan, which is filed in the Central Bank's archives.



- 20 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loans Title            Purpose        Years of         Status        Comments
Approval
Third SSE Credit Project  Credit Line         12/1982    Closed
Fourth SSE Credit Project    Credit Line      02/1990    In Execution
Private Sector Development   Credit Line      06/1993    Approved
2     Project Timetable
Date Planned       Revised Date         Actual Date
Identification                  End Sept.84                           10/01/84
Preparation l(Preapp.Msn)        Nov. 1984                            03/18/85
Appraisal Mission                Jan/Feb 85        04/85               05/85
Loan/Credit Negotiations                                              01/15/86
Board Approval                                                        03/27/86
Loan/Credit Signature                                                 04/10/86
Loan/Credit Effectiveness       July 10, 86                           08/20/86
Loan/Credit Closing              Dec.31, 93                           06/30/93
Loan/Credit Completion                                                01/07/93
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Date of First Disbursement:      FY87 (Ist. Quarter)
Initial Loan Closing Date:       12/31/93
Final Closing Date:              06/30/93
Date of Last Disbursement:       01/07/93
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY             86      87      88      89      90      91      92      93
Appraisal Estimate       -      51.3    10.4   16.3   16.9   11.0    6.5         2.6
Actual                   -     65.04   20.67   16.79    5.86    2.90    0.62    0.18
Actual as % of Estimate    -    127%   199%    103%    35%    26%       10%       7%



- 21 -
4. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                  Period        Staff Weeks
(FY)                     I
Through Appraisal                        84/85              91.5
Appraisal through Board Approval
86               29.3
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                              87-92              82.3
TOTAL                                                  203.1
B. Missions
Month/   Number of   No. of      Staff    Dates of   Overall Project
Year    Persons      Weeks    Weeks   Report
Identification    10/84        4         3         16.8   11/09/84
Appraisal        05/85         4         2         11.2   03/-3/86
Supervision      05/86         2         2          5.0   06/08/86         2
Supervision       11/86        1         1          1.0   12/08/86         2
Supervision       07/87        2         2          3.6   07/10/87         3
Supervision       01/88        4         2          8.8   02/24/88         1
Supervision       10/88        1      3 days        0.6   11/28/88         2
Supervision      04/90         1         1          1.0   04/27/90         1
Supervision      05/91         1      4 days        0.8   06/10/91         2
Subtotal                           I        I  _I_I



- 22 -
ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PROJECT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Loan Amount:             US$115.0 million equivalent
Borrower:         Republic of Ecuador
Term and Rate:    Loan repayable over 17 years with 4 years of grace at the Bank's variable interest
rate and charges.
Loan Effectiveness: Upon signing of a fiscal agency agreement between the Government and BCE.
Prior to loan approval, the Borrower announced measures to support trade policy
reforms which were considered pre-effectiveness conditions.
Allocation:
Category A:       US$50.0 million to finance essential imports in support of measures taken by the
Borrower to liberalize trade, industrial and financial sector policies.
Category BI:      US$64.45 million made available to PFIs (under a Subsidiary loan agreement), for
re-lending to industrial enterprises (under a Sub-loan agreement) to finance fixed
assets and permanent working capital to expand, reorient or initiate production,
particularly for export.
Category B2:      US$0.55 million TA component to the BCE to set up calculation of shadow prices;
to the SB and the SC for staff training and development of management information
systems; and to PFIs (through AFIN) to strengthen project evaluation capability.
Subsequently, the purpose of TA to the BCE was changed to strengthening the data
gathering capabilities instead of establishing a mechanism to calculate economic
prices, and to purchase computer hardware to enhance data processing capabilities.
Subsidiary Loan:
Description:      A loan from the Borrower, through BCE, to a PFI denominated in sucres. The
Borrower assumed the exchange rate risk of conversion from sucres into US dollars
and other currencies comprising the Bank's loan currency basket.
Term:             Same as the sub-loan.
Interest:         The BCE charged the PFIs an interest rate equal to the rate charged to the sub-
borrowers-such rate was to be established from time to time by the Monetary
Board-minus the PFI's fee of 5 percentage points per annum. The BCE retained
a fee of 0.25 percentage points and paid interest and principal on the loan to the
Bank. Since the Subsidiary loan was in sucres, the Borrower agreed to assume the
foreign exchange risk on the outstanding dollar amounts.
Loan Limits:      Each PFI was subject to a cumulative limit under this facility determined by the
following formula: nine times the change in equity since 01/01/85 expressed in



- 23 -
US$'s; however, the cumulative amount on-lent to a PFI could not exceed 50
percent of the total for this facility.
Eligibility:      To qualify, a Finance Company had to meet the following criteria:
a. Debt to equity ratio of 15:1 or better by 12/31/85; 14:1 by 12/31/86; 13:1 by
12/31/87; and 12:1 by 12/31/88.
b. A current ratio of at least one.
c. Interest coverage ratio of 1.10 or better by 12/31/85; 1.12 by 12/31/86; 1.14 by
12/31/87; and 1.15 by 12/31/88.
d. Credit concentration to one borrower or group of affiliated borrowers not to
exceed 40% of capital by 12/31/85; 35% by 12/31/86; 30% by 12/31/87; and
25% by 12/31/88.
Free Limit:       Loan approval limits of PFIs depended on whether they were Category I or II.
Category I:       Category I PFIs were: CFN(free limit: US$2.0 million), ECUFINSA(US$0.5
million), FINANQUIL(US$1.0 million), FINANSA(US$0.35 million),
FINANSUR(US$0.5 million), and FINIBER(US$0.35 million).
Category II:      A PFI in this category did not have a free-limit. After the Bank approved four sub-
loans made by this PFI, the Bank could establish a free-limit. Once the free-limit
was approved, the PFI was assigned to Category I.
Supervision:      BCE analyzed financial statements of each Group I and Group II PFIs to determine
whether they met the category criteria.
Documentation:    For each sub-loan, the PFI submitted for discounting under the Subsidiary
agreement, it had to provide: (i) summary description of project; (ii) for investment
projects of over US$1.0 million, evidence that economic rate of return exceeded 12
percent; (iii) terms and conditions of sub-loan; (iv) proper collateral and insurance
from the investment enterprise; and (v) other information as requested by Bank.
Sub-Loan:
Description:      A loan from a PFI to an investment enterprise denominated in sucres.
Term:             Sub-loans denominated and repaid in sucres, with a maximum tenor of 12 years,
and grace period up to 4 years, in the case of fixed assets; and maximum of 6 years
plus 2 years grace, in the case of permanent working capital.
Interest:         Payable quarterly with rates established from time to time by the Monetary Board.
Eligibility:      To qualify an investment enterprise had to be engaged in productive activities in the
manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries or tourism sectors, or other sectors agreed
to from time to time such as the mining sector which was added to the list through
an amendment to the Loan Agreement.



- 24 -
Policy Conditionality:
Measures:         To qualify for Category A disbursements the Borrower had  undertaken before
Board presentation the following measures and agreed to sustain their
implementation.
Trade Policy:     1. Implementation of a revised import tariff structure.
2. Reduction in the number of commodities subject to prior import authorization.
3. First step toward eliminating import prohibitions based on measures described
in letter from Minister of Industry, Commerce and Integration dated February
4, 1986.
Financial Policy:   Interest Rates: The Borrower had to establish from time to time interest rates
applicable to the sub-loans and all other long-term loans (2 years or more) to
manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries or tourism sectors which shall be positive
in real terms. [Section 4.06]
A mutually agreed upon interpretation of the Loan Agreement established that
interest rates would be deemed to be positive in real terms if they exceeded the
lower of the following up to June 30, 1987: (i) 85% of the 90 day CD rate; or (ii)
the seasonally adjusted annual rate of inflation. Starting July 1, 1987 if they
exceeded the lower of the following: (i) 2 percentage points below the 90 day CD;
or (ii) the seasonally adjusted annual rate of inflation.
Effective rates of interest on both loans and deposits had to be computed taking into
account commissions, fees, taxes, and the dates on which all amounts are payable.
Seasonally adjusted inflation was calculated as the arithmetic moving average of the
percentage change in the consumer price index 6 months preceding the interest
review date or latest 6 months available.
Resource Mobilization: The Borrower's interest and financial policies were to be
consistent with an adequate level of mobilization of domestic financial resources to
be established by mutual review by the Bank and the Borrower. [Section 4.07(a)(i)]
A mutually agreed upon interpretation of the Loan Agreement established a criteria
for an adequate level of mobilization of domestic financial resources as a 10 percent
annualized increase in the average real value of M2, adjusted for the four month
period prior to each periodic review.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
TECHNICAL NOTE
Calculation of Foreign Exchanee Gains / Losses (-)
1.    According to the Agreement, the Government (Borrower) was to assume the exchange rate risk of this
loan. The final borrower was to receive a sub-loan denominated in sucres. The Borrower in turn would
undertake the exchange rate risk of converting the sucres into U.S. dollars and then into the other currencies
comprising the Bank's loan basket of currencies. For purposes of this analysis, the Borrower's all-in cost of
funds includes a measure of foreign exchange gains/losses. This technical note explains the methodology used
in calculating those gains/losses and presents an estimated value during the period 1986 - 1992.
2.     Foreign exchange gains or losses occur in this case whenever a change in the exchange rate alters the
sucre value of the Borrower's financial obligation to the Bank. These gains/losses are realized at the time the
Borrower makes a debt service payment of either interest or principal. However, whenever the exchange rate
changes, the sucre value of the financial obligation also changes. The component of foreign exchange exposure
that is not yet realized, the unpaid balance of principal or any interest arrears, must be reported as accounting
or translation exposure. According to U.S. accounting standards, this exposure is recorded in the capital account
as cumulative translation adjustment, which represents unrealized gains/losses. As the gains/losses are realized,
the corresponding amounts are entered in the profit/loss statement and the capital account is then debited or
credited by the affected amount.
3.    While the translation gains/losses are not yet realized, they measure the Borrower's eventual exposure.
However, these gains/losses will continue to change for the duration of the financial obligation and the magnitude
of the change will depend on future variations in the exchange rate. In the case of Ecuador, it may be valid to
assume that the sucre will continue to depreciate in value against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, translation losses
will continue to increase until the loan has been fully amortized.
4.     As a hedge against exchange gains/losses, the Borrower set up a reserve fund derived from the interest
payments made by the investment enterprise (IE). According to the formula, the difference between the interest
rate on the sub-loan and the intermediary spreads owed to participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) and BCE
would constitute the reserve fund. Thus the calculation of the gains/losses from debt service was net of this
amount.
5.     Part I of the table shows the worksheet calculations used to derive the net gains/losses presented in Part
II. Because these calculations are based on the Bank's report of disbursements and repayments, the figures on
gains/losses represent estimates of the actual amounts. To compute the exact values, it would be necessary to
obtain the actual disbursement schedule for each sub-loan, which was not available for the preparation of this
PCR. Nevertheless, the differences between this report's estimates and the actual figures are not likely to differ
significantly given the very close correlation between the Bank's disbursements and the actual booking of the sub-
loan.
6.     The Borrower's contribution to the exchange gains/losses reserve fund is designated as BCE FX Rate
Cover in Part I of the table. The interest rate equivalent of the FX Rate Cover shown in the fifth column was
determined according to the above mentioned formula. The effective interest rate in the sixth column is the sucre
equivalent interest rate that the Borrower pays to the Bank. Both the FX Rate Cover and the Effective Intest



- 26 -
rates are calculated in terms of the adjusted loan balance, which represents the sucre equivalent of the sub-loan
to the IE.
7.    The calculation of the net gains from debt service shown in Table II-A consists of two elements. The
first are the gains/losses on interest payments which are equal to the difference in sucre terms between interest
payments and the FX Rate Cover shown in Part I columns seven and eight. The second are the gains/losses on
principal payments which are equal to the actual amount of principal repayment times the difference between the
historical and the current exchange rate. Both of these components are incorporated in the net gains/losses shown
in Table II-A. In accounting practice, the historical exchange rate represents the rate at the time of conversion
from dollars into sucres of a World Bank disbursement which then becomes an IE sub-loan. Absent information
on the disbursement of each sub-loan, for purposes of this analysis, the historical exchange rate is estimated as
the implicit value of the exchange rate derived from the adjusted loan balance (Part I column (9) divided by
column (3). This measures an average exchange rate based on the semi-annual disbursements reported by the
Bank.
8.    The accumulated translation gains/losses in Table II-B represent, in this case, the losses that would be
realized if the loan was repaid at that date. Future devaluations of the sucre would increase the size of these
losses. As the loan is paid off, the realized losses would be reported in Table II-A and the accumulated
gains/losses in Table II-B would be reduced by these amounts.
9.    The Borrower's net exposure, and thus eventual loss from exchange rate changes, can be estimated by
netting the results from the accumulated translation gains/losses with the FX rate cover fund balance shown in
Table II-C. To the extent the Borrower realizes a gain from debt service payments, which would mean that the
amount received from the FX rate cover fee exceeded the actual interest payments, the surplus is assumed to be
deposited in an account labeled FX rate cover fund. For purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that these funds
are re-invested at a rate of interest equal to the FX rate cover equivalent rate. If the FX rate cover fund balance
is positive, then the Borrower can offset future debt service losses against this reserve fund; if it is negative, then
it would be combined with the accumulated translation gains/losses to arrive at the overall FX losses. As of
December 1992, the Borrower's net exposure represented an accumulated loss of US$32.6 million (US$81.1
million minus US$48.5 million) excluding and US$43.4 including the effect of variations in the value of the dollar
relative to the Bank's basket of currencies which amounted to US$10.48 million (see note for Table II-B).
However, if in the future the Borrower's domestic interest rates rise sufficiently so that the FX Rate Cover results
in sizeable reserves increases into the FX Rate Cover Fund, these amounts could conceivably reduce the net
overall losses to be realized from repayment of the loan.
10.   All the formulas used in the estimation of the exchange rate gain/losses are shown on the page after the
tables.
All the formulas used in the estimation of exchange rate gains/losses are shown on the page after the table.
FORMULAS USED IN CALCULATING THE FX GAINS / LOSSES
1. Central Bank (BCE) exchange rate cover (%):
Rates on IE sub-loans(%) - PFIs spread(%) - BCE servicing fee(%)



- 27 -
2. Effective interest rate (%):
(Interest payment(S/. Mill.) * 2) I (Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.))
3. Interest payment (SI. Mill.):
( Loan balance(US$ Mill.) * (World Bank US$ interest rate(%) I 2) * (Exchange rate(S/.perUS$))
4. Exchange rate cover (SI. Mill.):
( BCE FX rate cover(%) I 2) * (Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.))
5. Adjusted loan balance (SI. Mill.):
( Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.) [previous period] ) + ( Disbursement(US$ Mill.) * (Exchange
rate(S/.per US$) + exchange rate(S/.per US$)[previous period] ) I 2) - (Principal payment(US$ Mill.)
* (Historical loan exchange rate[previous period] ))
6. Historical loan exchange rate (SI. per US$):
(Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill) ) I ( Loan balance(US$ Mill.) )
7. Net gains I losses (-) from debt service (SI. Mill):
( FX rate cover(S/. Mill.) - Interest payment(S/. Mill.) ) + (Principal payment(US$ Mill.) * Historical
loan exchange rate(S/. per US$)[previous period] ) - (Principal payment(US$ Mill.) * Exchange rate(S/.
per US$) )
8. Accumulated translation gains I losses (-):
( Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.) - ( Loan balance(US$ Mill) * Exchange rate(S/. per US$)))
9. FX rate cover fund balance (SI. Mill.):
( ( Accumulated sum of net gains/losses from debt service(S/. Mill.)[previous period] * (1 + ((BCE
FX rate cover(%)[previous period] + BCE FX rate cover(%) ) I 2))) + ( Net gains/losses from debt
service(S/. Mill.) ) * ( 1 + ( BCE FX rate cover(%) /2 ) ) )



IrP: CALCULATION OF FOREIGN MECCANGE GAINS / LOSSES (-)), PART I
BrC     BFfECTm   -_=
UWN                  LOU      PA&MfT OK  FX RM       IgrEIT   DM=          FX RTE    E1C81E  ADJ. [W   EST. MM
DIWiRWf  18If     OUTSTADII          LOU       mm          RIT      PImI        am          RATE     BALANCE    ?X RAN
'i5$ Mii.  IF$ Hill.  1t$ Kill.  lU$ i Ul.     (%)        (%)     SI. Hill.  SI. Kill.  Sf.pei$   SI. HiU.  SI. KI.
(I)        (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)        (7)        (8)        (9)        (10)        (11)
1986 DE      $65.0       $ 9      $65.0       $0.6       19.98%     2.12%       88.4      835.0      147.0    8,357.3      128.5
1987 i3U      $0.0       $0.0      $65.0       $3.3       23.70%     12.43%     519.5      990.3      159.6    8,357.3      128.5
DEC       $0.0       $0.0      $65.0       $0.0      26.24%      0.07%       2.9    1,096.3       215.1    8,357.3      128.5
g88 JUN      $20.?       $0.0      $85.7       $3.1       31.46b     11.91%     784.3    2,070.6      250.0   13,164.2      153.6
DEC      $14.5       $0.0     $100.2       $3.2      49.23%     15.95S    1,455.4    4,493.0      449.8   18,251.6      182.1
1989 .1W      $2.2       $0.0     $102.5       $3.8      56.56%      20.96%   2,028.6    5,474.8      535.3   19,358.1      188.9
M6c       $4.9       $0.0     $107.4       $8.1      56.56%     46.73%    5,200.6    6,294.6     640.4   22,256.5       207.2
1990 JUN      $0.9       $0.0     $108.4       $0.0       59.55%      0.00%       0.0    6,821.2      757.7   22,907.8      211.4
Mc        $1.9       $0.5     $109.7       $9.5      58.29%     68.33%    8,317.9    7,095.5     878.7   24,346.1       221.9
1991 JUp      $1.0       $5.1     S105.6       $4.2      62.43       35.52    4,291.9    7,543.1    1,024.9   24,163.6      228.8
D1C       $0.6       $9.0      $97.3       $4.5      66.87%     50.01%   5,707.1    7,631.9    1,275.1   22,824.5       234.7
1992 JUN      $0.0       $0.0      $97.3       $3.3      67.59%     41.15%   4,696.4    7,713.I    1,436.2   22,824.5       234.7
[EC       $0.0       $5.4      $91.9       $2.7      67.72%     50.62%    5,456.0    7,298.9    2,000.0   21,556.5      234.7
I!



IFP: CALCULILTION OF FOREIGN EXCHAMGE GAINS / LOSSES (-), PART II
Table: 11-A                          Table: I1I-
ET   Ifl/                          ICMIULATED
S     (-) H    um3                 TRUA1TION EJIVALE
FK  DeBT       II                     GAIISI       aI
SICE         I$'s                  W ESS (-)    uS$'s
(SI. Nill.) (US$ KMl.)               (SI. Mill) (US$ 31ill.)
1986      746.5         $5.8                (1,203.2)      ($8.2)
1987     1,564.2        $8.3                (5,632.2)     ($26.2)
1988    4,324.0        $12.4               (26,835.1)     ($59.7)
1989    4,540.2         $7.7               (46,537.6)     ($72.7)
1990    5,240.1         $6.4               (72,059.5)     ($82.0)
1991    (8,310.8)      ($7.2)             (101,191.7)     ($79.4)
1992   (4,678.6)       ($2.7)             (162,152.6)     ($81.1)1
Table: Il-C
FX WO    MUmiENT
BLARNM        IH$'s
(SI. Kill.) (US$ HILL.)
1986      821.1         $6.4
1987    2,795.5        $14.9
1988    9,311.8        $26.6
1989    20,403.2       $34.7
1990    39,192.3       $47.9
1991    53,441.9       $46.5
1992    83,334.1       $48.5
1ift figir for aceuuated   slatim gains/lo              does not iclnie the effect of cdangeD in the valiu of tMe dollar in teus of the World Bank's
basbet of curznicies. As of par emi 1992, the aclwated lose  frm the dollar's depreclation relative to the basbt of curnecies ms about 11.8% of
the total valia of the loan outstaeing. This riesnted an additional ctuulative loss of $10.84 uillion, Which uhm added to the cmulative translation
losss yieldls a total cuullative low of $91.94 million.



- 30 -
TABLE: 1
IFP: LOAN DISBURSEMENT SUMMARY
F I                                                 DISBURSED AS OF 1990
AND                             LOAN
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                 NO.                SUCRES          DOLLARS
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
ETERNIT ECUATORIANA                        A-01                 629,885         2,205
ALIMENTOS BALANCEADOS                      B-O1                   19,171            79
BATERIAS ECUATORIANAS                      B-03                   39,718           218
EDESA                                      B-04                 380,242            834
TEXTILES ECUADOR                           B-05                  164,891           954
ECUACERAMICA                               B-07                 187,764            901
TEXTILES DEL VALLE                         B-08                  104,175           430
LAROPLAST                                  B-09                   71,861           289
CONFITECA                                  B-10                  161,388           731
NADERAS PRESERVADAS                         B-li                  42,509           204
CARLEX                                     B-12                   54,772           220
CEGALSA                                    B-13                  118,787           606
COFETO                                     B-14                   40,784           193
SINTESA                                    B-15                   68,593           247
CONTINENTAL HOTEL                          B-16                   32,764           110
ARHCO                                      B-17                   22,794           106
OFFSETEC                                    B-18                 265,546         1,116
LADRILLOS Y CERANICA                       B-19                   28,048           113
ABRASINT                                   B-20                   17,961            63
LOLINOS LA UNION                            B-21                 258,238           639
BADECA                                      B-22                  41,722            96
AGROHAC                                     B-23                  34,323           131
CONDUIT DEL ECUADOR                        B-24                  198,505           938
LIFE                                       B-25                  215,814           750
ARCOMPAKI                                  B-26                  134,518           599
AGLOMERADOS COTOPAKI                        B-28                  75,467           311
IDEAL ALAMBREC                             B-29                 220,728         1,000
FOLICAJAS                                  B-30                  109,598           261
HANSA                                       B-31                  13,827            54
ECUAT DE CURTIDOS                          B-32                   14,835            59
NGK DEL ECUADOR                             B-33                  29,916           110
QUASAR NAUTICA                             B-34                  182,900           636
SONAPAL                                    B-35                 113,390           283
FLAPASA                                    B-36                 136,627           599
IDAKESA                                    B-37                  70,089           194
FRANCELANA                                 B-38                 506,097         1,495
FCA CLAVOS GUAYAS                          B-39                 282,175         1,088
PIPSA                                      B-40                  308,840           840
CERRADURAS ECUATORIANAS                    B-41                   56,794           164
SUMESA                                     B-42                  293,514        1,146



- 31 -
F I                                                DISBURSED AS OF 1990
AND                             LOAN
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                 NO.               SUCRES          DOLLARS
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL(Cont.)
PLASTICOS ROMMOTT                          B-43                  25,686          103
INDUSTRIA PLASTICA                         B-44                 132,126          330
SIGHUAPLAST                                B-45                  51,251          229
HILACRIL                                   B-46                  30,500          125
HERDOZA                                    B-48                  55,650          130
SINTOFIL                                   B-49                 333,816        1,205
LA FAVORITA                                B-50                 175,732          618
AGROCEREALES                               B-51                 488,181          820
LA FABRIL                                  B-52                 140,745          563
CERVEZAS NACIONALES                        B-53                 190,735          657
CEDAL                                      B-54                  40,653          163
ETICA                                      B-55                 545,790        2,000
FOSFORERA ECUATORIANA                      B-57                 113,445          414
ISKRAEHEC                                  B-58                 188,555          407
AGLOHERADOS COTOPAXI                       B-59                 155,436          613
PLASTICOS CORONADO                         B-60                  60,355          200
TOTAL C.F.N.                                   8,478,226        29,589
FINANCIERA GUAYAQUIL
CRIDESA                                   GUA-A-01              319,620        1,281
CALCAREOS GUAYCO                          GUA-A-02              719,476        1,988
PRICHARES                                 GUA-A-03              328,103          727
PROPELLETS                                GUA-A-05              103,727          351
FCA CLAVOS GUAYAS                         GUA-B-01              154,736          927
INDUSTRIAS IMSA                           GUA-B-02              159,477          777
CEDAL                                     GUA-B-03              228,627          945
PROMARISCO                                GUA-B-04              155,555          609
CEGALSA                                   GUA-B-05              163,147          669
ECUAPA PEL                                GUA-B-06              124,498          500
INDUMET                                   GUA-B-07              166,184          658
IPAC                                      GUA-B-08              256,825          997
INDEMAR                                   GUA-B-09              229,882          428
LABORATORIOS BARBU                        GUA-B-10              410,511          982
HORMIGONES FRECON                         GUA-B-11              331,280        1,080
DIAHESA                                   GUA-B-13              398,988          912
EXFALSA                                   GUA-B-14              114,714          300
CEDAL                                     GUA-B-15              270,564          988
INDURAMA                                  GUA-B-16              155,407          490
EL CAMPO                                  GUA-B-17              192,119          444
ANDIVIDRIOS                               GUA-B-18                    0             0
I.P.A.C.                                  GUA-B-19                    0            0
TOTAL FINGUA                                             4,983,440       16,053
______ --      -------__



- 32 -
F I                                                  DISBURSED AS OF 1990
AND                             LOAN
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                  NO.                SUCRES          DOLLARS
ECUATORIANA DE FINANCIANIENTO
POLIQUIMICOS ECUADOR                       ECU-A-01               436,721           985
SOCIEDAD AGRICOLA DEL ECUADOR              ECU-A-03               926,503         1,265
AGA DEL ECUADOR                            ECU-A-04             1,320,420         2,238
EL NROSARIO                                ECU-B-O1                59,871           209
GASA                                       ECU-B-02               102,889           250
PLASTICOS RIVAL                            ECU-B-03               173,780           500
ECELCO                                     ECU-B-04                57,120           137
CONTROLEC                                  ECU-B-05                63,663           200
FADESA                                     ECU-B-06               325,500           500
PROAQUINDOS S.A.                           ECU-B-07                73,800           100
AGROCEL                                    ECU-B-09               112,459           137
LA REFORMA                                 ECU-B-10               392,059           483
PLASTICOS DEL LITORAL                      ECU-B-li                     0             0
LA REFORMA                                 ECU-B-12               200,753           246
TOTAL ECUFINSA                                         4,245,538         7,250
COMPANIA FINANCIERA S.A.
PESQUERA POLAR                             FINEC-A-01             529,125         2,125
OCEANPAC                                   FINEC-A-02             108,561           430
ICESA                                      FINEC-A-03             307,423           992
DUFEX                                      FINEC-A-04             416,105         1,267
PENTAQUIN                                  FINEC-B-O1
1,361,214         4,814
19,068,418        57,706



- 33 -
TABLE: 2
IFP: LOAN DISBURSENENTS BY SIZE
NO. I       %   I    US DOLLRS
UP TO  $100,000.00                       |      6 |      5.83 |        442,565.22 |    0.67
$100,001- $250,000                       1    25 1    24.27 1    4,435,563.82 1    6.68
$250,001 - $500,000                      1    19 1    18.45 1    7,551,059.90 1   11.37
$500,001 - $1000,000                     1    36 1    34.95 1   28,164,075.07  1   42.42
--- --- --- ---  ---  --- ---  --- ---  ---  --- --  --- ---  ---  --- ---  --_---   --_---    --- --
$1000,001 - $5000,000                    1    17 1       16.5 1   25,793,750.25 1   38.86
OVER  $5,000,000                         l        l            l                    l
TOTAL                                    |   103 1        100 |   66,387,014.26  |  100.00
--- --- --  --- --  --- ---  -- ---  --  --- ---  -- ---  -- ---  ---  -- ---_----     -    __-- --- --



- 34 -
TAi3LE: 3
rFP: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY PURPOSE
NO. I 1          I    US DOLLARS
NEW                                        I       0 I         0 |              0.00 I    0.00
EXPANSION                                  |     32 1    31.07 |   20,361,857.53  |   30.67
MODERNIZATION                              |      35 |   33.98 |   21,956,997.65  |   33.07
OTHER                                      |      36 |   34.95 |   24,068,159.08 |   36.26
TOTAL                                      |    103 |       100 |   66,387,014.26  |          100
----  --- ---  ---  --- ---  ---  ---  ---  --- ---  ----  ---  ---  --- ---  ---  -     __--- _-- --- ---



- 35 -
TABLE: 4
IFP: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY SECTOR
I    NO.1    %   I   US DOLLARS    I
FOOD                                   1      9 |   8.74 |    5,414,300.35 |   8.16
WOOD PRODUCTS                          1      3 |   2.91 |    1,129,141.15 |    1.7
MINING                                 |      2 |   1.94 |    2,120,771.02 |   3.19
TEXTILES                               |      5 |   4.85 |    4,209,672.29 |   6.34
CHEMICALS                              |      7 |    6.8 |    4,892,620.32 |   7.37
METAL PRODUCTS                         |    16 |  15.53 |   10,366,285.95 |  15.61
MISC. RANUFACTURED PRODUCTS            |    19 |  18.45 |    8,792,804.28 |  13.24
HOTELS                                 |      2 |   1.94 |    2,109,874.27 |   3.18
TRANSPORTATION                         I      O |      0               0 O.00       0 O
BASIC METALS                           I      0 |       0 |            0.00 I       0
NON-METALLIC HINERALS                  I      1 |   0.97 |    1,079,573.02 |   1.63
FISHING                                I    11 |  10.68 |    9,864,519.74 |  14.86
PAPER PRODUCTS                         |      6 |   5.83 |    2,920,716.88 |    4.4
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS                 |      4 |   3.88 |    2,475,727.16 |   3.73
OTHERS                                 |    18 |  17.48 |   11,011,007.83 |  16.59
TOTAL                                  |   103 |    100 |   66,387,014.26 |    100
------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------_  ----   ----------



LO1N  SUPERVISION:  CFN
( 2sosN  $)
EIPLWUII                     FINANCING                                                                                                             RATE OF
G)DNY                           ONE            BEFRE                                       FINAN.             ENPLYNEiT          EIPTS                                  TIPE OF                  REMRN ON         FIXED
(PROV.          LAN                   CFN      (ONPMY INTDEMn.   01E1            1ATE0      GENRATED            IRR          mE      PM3!CT          SALES      CAPITAL       ASSETS      CAPITAL
ETENT                         GUAYAS            694                  8.3%        91.7%     0.00      0.0%        0.00            0.0         32.6%        33.1%   EXPANION    11,684.9           13.6l    4,510.7        9,041.2
AL=EC                         GEAS                 0                11.9%        6.10%     2.32%      4.8%        13.0            0.0         15.5%         23.8%        NEV         553.7         23.7%       101.6         69.3
ADM  OTL (DESTMDO)                                 0                    0            0         0        0             0              0             0            0           0         0                0           0             0
BAEIAS    AIm S               PIlBINCA            58                 6.4%         89.8t     3.8%      0.0%         0.0            0.0          0.0%         0.0%  EXPANSION       2,848.1          39.6%         2.1      1,030.8
ED6A                          PIIINCKA          233                 53.5%        44.1%      2.1%      0.0%        30.0          329.2         27.2%        20.8%  E4PANION        5,040.2          36.4%       949.6      2,976.4
TEXTIL EaCDl                  PIIDn3   A         224                73.8%        26.2%      0.0%      0.0%         3.0            0.0         25.2%        21.3%  EXPANSION       3,355.6          23.0%    1,259.1       1,662.2
N C AhIIC  (DIISTIDD)                              0                    0            0        0         0            0               0             0            0           0         0                0           0            0
IICEBIRAia1                   CDOU               471                77.3S        22.7%      0.0%      0.0%         0.5          591.0         45.0%        44.1%   EXPAISION      8,062.7          17.2%    1,965.7       7,325.6
TE2SILES DEL VAILE            PIINLA             N.D.               55.3%        34.41      0.0%     10.3%        31.0            0.0         27.6%        24.0%   EXPA0ION       1,330.5          19.8%     1,388.8         82.9
IAROPAST                      GDAIAS             54                 40.9%        14.7%     39.7%      4.7%         6.0            0.0         25.4%        19.0%   EXPANSION      1,263.9          14.8%       557.0        922.5
MffITSA                       PICHIt I           140                10.31        84.3%      0.5%      4.9%         8.0            0.0         23.3%        17.0%   EXPANSION    10,029.7            7.3%       472.5      4,242.2
DIRESI                        GUAYAS              58                22.2%        77.8%      0.0t      0.0%         0.0            0.0         87.9%          N.D  EXPANSION       1,887.1          33.41       114.9        950.1
cumLeL                       FPICENI             11                 53.5%        46.5%      0.0%      0.0%        11.0            0.0         23.4%        21.1t EXPANSION        2,202.8          26.6%       139.8        660.2
CECISA LG1AIIS                                   73                 28.4%        28.2%     39.0%      4.41%        0.0            0.0         26.21        32.41%   EPANSION      5,506.1          19.9%       629.6      4,021.4
CIA.PEDOS DE TSlII             PICIU              16                43.4%         48.4%     8.2%      0.0%         6.0            0.0         52.0%        55.9%  EXPANSION          663.0         18.7%       264.5        419.9       '
SINIESI                       GDAYAS              33                75.5%         0.5%    14.41%      9.6%         6.0            2.9         63.6%        66.2%  EXPANSION       2,322.6          48.7%       151.5        646.7       ff
CG?NII  3DM                   GUAYAS             267                N.D            N.D      N.D       N.D          N.D            0.0%          N.D          N.D  EXPANSION    1,99.1              8.2%         4.0        823.0
AiO S.L.                      CONOPAXl            61                 2.7%        93.8%      1.6%      1.9%         0.0            0.0         48.7%          N.D  EXPANSION       5,003.2          47.0%       495.3      3,306.3
OFFSETfl  S.A.                PICRINOlA          213                28.0%        72.0%      0.0%      0.0%         0.0            0.0         31.2%        25.41%  EYPSION        8,903.4          22.2%       703.0      7,923.4
LUIEILWS I CERAK.S.I.         AZuA                413               27.6%        70.6%      0.0%      1.8%         0.0            0.0         27.7%        20.5%  EXPANSION          294.0         12.7%       200.0        371.1
ABRASIN?                      PININCRA            23                47.5%        45.0%      4.0%      2.7%        11.0            0.0         50.2%        17.9%  EXPANSION          717.5         38.7%       270.4        381.7
DLIDS U  DlNON                PICHINCU           117                67.8%         29.7%     2.5%      0.0%         5.0            0.0         49.8%        37.2%  EXPANSION    11,603.7            29.1% *    668.1       1,852.7
BADECA                        GIIAYAS              0                54.8%        45.2%      0.0%      0.0%        17.0           36.8         27.5%        27.8%          N           97.9         22.7%        73.3         78.8
ACI                           GUAYAS            180                 41.5%        28.3%    27.9%       2.3%         0.0            0.0         20.0%        34.6%  EXPANSION       1,784.9          12.3%       150.0      1,379.1
CDE0II DIE  EADOR S.A.   PFICINMA                 78                 10.9%        75.3%     8.8%      5.0%         0.0            0.0         33.0%        15.5%  EXPANSION        7,827.1         17.6%       598.4      3,823.6
LIFE                          PICIcR            287                 43.0%        78.1%    10.1%       7.5%         0.0            3.7         40.0t        50.0%  EMPANSION      11,733.4          33.1%       745.8      3,187.5
ARNCO1AI                      omPAX              222                 4.2%        72.5%    10.7%    12.6%           6.0            0.0         43.9%        45.5%  EXPANSION    12,980.7            33.8%     1,198.7      3,508.0
EIS        IDESISTIDO)
ACOSAI                        COMAII             123                11.8%        72.0%    15.8%       1.3%



FJUWINDIT                  F I N A N C I N G                                                                                                  RATE OF
CONPMY                       ZONE            BDFORE                                    FINAN.            EKPWIYNENT        EXPORTS                                TYPE OF                RETURN ON        FIXED
(PR)V.)        LOAN                 CFN    CODNPANY INTUERIED.  OTtER       CWTED        GEERM ED           IRR         ER       PROJECT       SALES      CAPITAL      ASSETS      CAPITAL
IDEAL AE                     PIC Nfl8D1A       402                8.2%        83.9t     3.6%     4.3%         0.0            0.0        35.4%        18.2%  EXPANSION    17,081.2          27.1%    1,961.2      7,347.1
pOLICUAS S.L.                PICINCU             0               65.2S        30.0%     4.8S     0.0%        17.0            0.0        45.5%        32.7%        NEW        423.2         37.9%      175.3        187.0
owl5                         PICHIINCI          57                7.4%        84.7%     3.7%     4.2%         0.0            0.0        24.0%          N.D  EXPANSION        739.0         15.5%      151.5        566.2
ECUAT.DE CURT SUL            COTOPFI            88                7.1%        76.2%     6.3%    10.4%         0.0            0.0        56.41%       42.4%  EXPANSION      1,877.7         14.2%      230.0        763.2
IlJIAS  I                    COTOAII            31                8.1%        71.1%    15.1%      5.7%        0.0          163.0        44.6%          N.D  EXPANSION      5,592.4         24.1%    1,913.0        333.2
JASm BrTICA iPICICRA                            34               36.1%        63.9%     0.0%      0.0%        0.0            0.0        36.0%        30.1%   EXPANSION       965.9         25.1%      930.6        863.9
SDNAL                        GAYAS             157               73.9%        26.1%     0.0%      0.0%        0.0            0.0        22.0%        36.8%  EXPANSION      1,922.9          9.7%       133.8     1,053.5
PLASTIS PA .PtAPASA         GUAYAS             57                80.0S       20.0%     0.0%      0.0%         0.0           0.0        13.5%        14.5%  EXPANSIl         560.5          1.3%       384.2       868.4
10AN1SA                     GUUAAS               0               20.2%        54.5%     0.0%    25.3t       139.0          220.3        49.5%        52.9t         NEW     1,193.0         30.3%    1,034.8      1,229.4
FRANCU  S.A.                 PICIINI            87               20.8S        72.0%     2.4%      4.8%       10.0            0.0        47.6%        41.1%  EXPANSIWN      2,216.8         12.6S      805.1      1,381.0
FCA. CIAVOS GbAYS            GUAYAS            288               20.7S        79.3%     0.0%      0.0%        0.0            0.0        16.9%        17.1%  EXPANSION      4,417.7          7.7%    1,276.0      2,096.7
ELICTORODI.PIPSA S.A.        GUAYlS            274               76.5%        23.5%     0.0%      0.0%        0.0            0.0        17.0%        19.0%  EXPANSION      3,217.9          8.71    1,868.5      2,018.7
CERlUDOR5 ECOAT.CESA         PICHINCB           62                23.5t       69.8%     0.0%      6.71        4.0            0.0        24.7%        15.7%  EXPANSION        893.1         17.3%       119.4       284.2
SUIESA                      GUAYS              122               64.8%        35.2%     0,0%      0.0%        4.0            0.0        16.0t        21.0%   EXPANSION     3,860.4          7.7%       703.2     1,513.8
RPASTICOS RODDT               iUU1Y             30               14.9%        66.1%    11.1%      7.9%        0.0            0.0        60.5%        66.4   EXPANSION       892.8         40.6%       124.9       371.5
IN0SllIA FLSTICA             PIChINCHA          63                6.1%        84.4t     2.0%      7.5%       12.0            0.0        58.61        54.8t EXPANSION       1,430.5         61.9%        15.7       546.9
SIGKAPIAST ClA.LTDA          PICINCE            32               12.0%        65.5%      4.0%    18.5%        5.0            0.0         28.6%         N.D  EXPANSION      3,654.5         32.8%       869.2     1,330.4
DILCRIL                      PIC NIA           148                3.5%        89.4%     2.8%      4.41        0.0            0.0        46.4%        39.0%  EXPANSION      5,282.8         33.2%       138.1     3,072.5
JAIBAZL (DISISTID)                               0                   0           0         0                    0             0             0            0          0         0               0           0            0
LIIIINIDUOR  EA              WIPA                0               36.41%       45.9%    17.7%      0.0%         0.3           0.0         37.6%         N.D         NEi    2,373.0          50.8%       229.3       733.4
SINOFIL                      PIC9UW            230               12.9%        76.3%    10.8%      0.0%        0.2            0.0        42.6%        39.0%  EXPANSION    11,976.1          30.2%    2,332.0      6,692.1      w
u  flvatI?                   GOALS             394               61.2%        38.8%     0.0%      0.0t       15.0            0.0        37.2%        39.1t  EXPANSION    35,027.2          18.2%    3,824.8    10,670.0
hAG     LID   S.I.           LDS RIOS            0                53.7t       36.7%      9.6t    0.0t         0.0            0.0         42.2%       47.1%         NEW     4,919.3         54.0%       634.4       812.6
CIA.LTDA. LA FARIL                             295               62.2%        23.0%    14.8%      0.0%       46.0            0.0        23.3%        23.7%  EXPANSION    19,812.7          16.3%    2,386.4      3,452.2
CEIVE2AS NACIONES            GUAYS             826                39.5%       60.5%      0.0%     0.0%        0.0            0.0        23.4%        26.0t EXPANSION    36,593.7            6.8%    5,374.0    14,113.0
CEDAL                       C0Ye RI            131                5.6%        62.6%     2.1%    29.7%         0.0          230.9        35.4%          N.D  EXPANSION      5,615.3         25.1%       984.7     2,376.3
ENWRESI TRSTICA INT.         GAGOPAS            97               31.1%        68.9%      0.0%     0.0%        6.0            0.0        36.0%        40.0%  EXPANSION      8,489.3         18.0S    2,745.4      3,324.4
OLIETAL( DESIST?ID)                              0                   0           0         0        0            0             0             0            0          0        0                 o0                     0
PDSFORA ECIUTORIUA  S.J.  PICINh               124                13.5S       70.81    15.71      0.0%         5.0           0.0        79.6t        68.3%  EXPANSION    10,138.8          14.71    1,821.6      5, 566.3
iSRAIWEC                     PICHINCA           87               16.2%        51.7S     6.5%    25.6%         0.0            0.0        55.9%        49.2%  EXPANSION      2,063.1         26.5%        71.0       837.1
ACOSA2                       COTOPAXI          123               39.3%        56.4%     1.8%      2.5%        0.0           50.0        30.0%        23.0%  EXPANSION      4,381.5          9.8%       575.2     2,383.2
PIASS W80IA                  EL OR             32               17.8%        64.3%     0.0%     18.0%        10.0           0.0         33.8%         N.D  EXPANSION      1,031.6         33.6%        44.4       192.5



L O A N    S U P E R V I S I 0 N:   E C U F I N S A
INTEIIAL     FIN.              EJIPLOYlENT        EXFORTS    IRR         lot
CONANY                                        SEVR                  EIPXFWNM   PU WSE                2672ec      FUNDS   INTM1NED.   OTHeR  GENERATeD         GENATED        EX-ARTE  EX-POST
PIVUQ DM                                      Quisico/Sorbitol          33         orking capital      26.50%     73.50%    0.00        0.00       0        0.00              15%        17%
hfYIOIIES I CKIDIS GASA                       Electorodos./TV           20        epamion              65.40%     37.60%    0.00        0.00       0        0.00              68%        23%
ECEI00                                       Tableros electricos        36       IDrking capital       85.00%     15.00%     0.00       0.00       0        0.00              23%
PLASTIOS RL                                   Tuberia PVC               65        Vorking capital      82.00%     18.00%     0.00       0.00       6        0.00              21%        33%
COIIROLEC                                     Ames.Electricos            22       Norking capital      72.90%      27.10%    0.00       0.00       6        0.00              27%
SOCIEDAD AGICtLA E UI ISEI SMN CARLOS    Ali.enticio/Azucar           4,449       EKpansion            76.39%      23.61%    0.00       0.00      40         0.00             44%       107%
MA ML LUADD                                   Gases del Aire (D/N)       80      Eipansion             34.50%      26.00%    0.00       39.50S    65         0.00             33%        55%
FMSh                                          Xetalecanica              197        Drking capital      23.37%      76.63%    0.00       0.00     202        0.00              19%        16%
(Ebvases de bojalata)
qpUIN     lS                                  Quiuico                    32        orking capital      67.70%      32.30%    0.00       0.00       2         0.00             28%        33%
AGL                                           Papel/Pulpa                         New                  50.20%      49.80%    0.00       0.00      22         0.00             36%
FARICk M  PAPIL LA MM                         Fabricacion de Papel      452       Drking capital       53.14%      46.86%    0.00       0.00     446         0.00             19%        49%
USTCOS EL LIlR                                Plastico                  330       Expansion            77.00S      21.00%    0.00        2.00%    12         0.00             40%
IlWSllIIL LA REI                              Papel                     513       iorting capital      65.00%      35.00%    0.00       0.00       0         0.00             30%



LOAN          LOMS IN
ODNPMAY                                         BICE               AERSS           SAES    PROFITABILITY    FIXM ASSES            CAPITAL
POLIQJNICOS                                  402,202.17        0.00         2,479,071.29         3.98          249,764.08      623,538.58
NVERIONES Y CREDIS  GASA                      99,013.44        0.00           893,178.53       114.59           90,876.72        7,794.23
OCELCe                                             0.00        0.00           786,776.32         8.41          246,070.77       93,530.79
PLASTDS RKAL                                       0.00        0.00         2,621,495.68         6.84          373,971.60      383,362.09
01OLIEC                                            0.00        0.00           228,153.91         6.97           86,914.40       32,735.78
SOaIAD AQICOA  I BBSTAL SM CAI             1,136,404.91        0.00        27,897,343.53         4.74        6,131,802.14    5,882,221.02
A1A DL ICMOR                               1,501,038.11        0.00         7,515,400.62         2.81        13,511,991.43    2,672,470.77
FMISA                                        721,847.69        0.00        15,179,947.78         4.87        2,895,215.12    3,117,692.91
WROOUIMNDIS                                   75,000.00        0.00           386,045.38         3.16           66,800.11      122,051.25
AGRDCEL                                      388,725.66        0.00           666,553.39         3.40          314,109.12      196,091.19
FAEICA DE PAPE LA REFORM                     241,380.64        0.00         1,952,529.63         5.70        3,184,737.68      342,770.81
PLASTIDS E  LITORAL                          496,488.87        0.00         7,237,765.68         3.21        2,281,523.08   2,255,071.09
IRIUSTIUAL LA REFOREA                        245,719.54        0.00         7,134,474.40        11.00          463,341.56      648,818.91



ME: 7
L O A N S U P E R V I S I O N: F I N E C
(Sucres)
COKPANY            SECT?R              PURPOSE             CFN (0FPRIBTION    INTERNAL FUNDS          OTHER               IER                 ERR
Pesqura Polar       Elaboracion y       Purchase of         Credito BIRF                                                    28.971                26.92%
Courcializacion   ships(2)              529.125.000         132.274.900
de harina
Frportadora del     Sbri p and lobsters Packaqing           Credito BIRF                                                   89.00%                 87.00%
Oceano Pacifico     exporter            plant               209.560.896         92.396.049
Oceanpac
Pentaquin           Production & Dist. Purcbase of          Credito BIRF                                                   42.72%                43.85%
of Cbelicals       raw uterials         201.075.000                             220.438.400



CCKPANI           SALES            PlDFITABILITY       FIXED ASSETS       CAPITAL
Pesquera Polar     485.979.434          15.50%           4.119.481.000      1.295.000.000
Uportaora del      11.411.367.000        2.20%           1.028.773.000        100.000.000
Cceano Pacifico
Pentaquin          1.407.415.600        78.00%             150.622.400         95.000.000
S.-



TaBLe:
CFN (2672EC): LOANS IN ARREARS
(Sucres)
1986                 1987                 1988                 1989                 1990                 1991
Up to three months
No. of loans                            0                    0                    5                   10                    7                     2
Amount in arrears                    0.00                 0.00         1,897,837.67        12,840,785.30        13,522,587.96         7,277,003.35
Affected debt                        0.00                 0.00      358,683,899.33        213,902,171.02       482,860,561.26        54,805,200.89
Three months to a year
No. of loans                            0                    0                    1                    4                     2                    3
Amount in arrears                    0.00                 0.00         1,205,637.05        36,806,652.64         5,167,357.05         9,940,249.01
Affected debt                        0.00                 0.00        11,076,101.86       318,707,732.06        36,554,938.98        84,439,182.52
More than one year
No. of loans                            0                    0                    0                    3                     4                    1
Amount in arrears                    0.00                 0.00                 0.00        52,225,429.00    3,548,683,725.00        260,640,000.00
Affected debt                        0.00                 0.00                 0.00       269,925,559.00       158,941,351.00                  0.00
TOTAL IN ARREARS
No. of loans                            0                    0                    6                   17                    13                    6
Amount in arrears                    0.00                 0.00         3,103,474.72       101,872,866.60       373,558,320.38       277,857,252.36
Affected debt                        0.00                 0.00      369,760,001.19        802,535,461.85       678,356,851.01       139,244,383.41
TOTAL AFFECTED DEBT
No. of loans                            0                   19                  117                  112                    84                   71
Total loan amount                    0.00      810,692,132.43    5,929,929,440.07    5,691,106,844.99    4,728,771,125.07    3,606,643,082.24
Percent of total loans
in arrears                           0.00%                0.00%                6.24%               14.10%               14.35%                 3.86%



- 43 -
TABLE: 9
IFP: INTERTEST RATE COMPLIANCE
(Interest rates are annual yield)
Naximuu       Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s
Rates on     Conventional Preferential  External funds Standard        Inflation     90 day
IFP Sub-loans Lending rate  Lending rate  Lending rate   Lending rate  (6MMA)        CD rate
1986 JANUARY         24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00                  25.10
FEBRUARY        24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00                  25.11
MARCH           24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00                  25.46
APRIL           24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00                  27.95
MAY             24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00                  28.78
JUNE            24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          21.2   28.89
JULY            24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          20.9   29.98
AUGUST          24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          20.8   31.10
SEPTEMBER       24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          21.1   32.25
OCTOBER         24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          22.2   33.22
NOVMBER         24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          23.4   31.95
DECEMBER        24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          24.7   31.68
1987 JANUARY         24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          25.8   30.22
FEBRUARY        24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          26.3   30.96
MARCH           24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          27.3   30.42
APRIL           24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          27.6   32.86
NAY             24.32         24.32         18.81          24.32           0.00          28.0   32.01
JUNE            27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          28.7   32.12
JULY            27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          29.8   32.35
AUGUST          27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          30.5   32.22
SEPTEMBER       27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          30.4   32.74
OCTOBER         27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          30.0   32.63
NOVEMBER        27.69         29.96         21.00          27.69           0.00          30.0   34.93
DECEMBER        29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          30.2   39.03
1988 JANUARY         29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          30.7   39.39
FEBRUARY        29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          32.0   40.03
MARCH           29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          33.3   40.15
APRIL           29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          36.0   40.89
MAY             29.96         29.96         24.32          29.96           0.00          39.0   41.21
JUNE            34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56           0.00          41.9   42.20
JULY            34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56           0.00          43.9   43.44
AUGUST          34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56          45.06          48.2   45.40
SEEMBER         34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56          46.69          54.0   42.90
OCTOBER         34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56          48.17          59.8   43.65
NOVEMBER        34.56         29.96         24.32          34.56          49.73          65.3   45.07
DECEMBER        50.07         29.96         24.32          34.56          50.07          71.3   45.07



- 44 -
maximum      Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s
Rates on     Conventional Preferential External funds Standard        Inflation    90 day
IFP Sub-loans Lending rate  Lending rate  Lending rate   Lending rate  (6MNA)       CD rate
1989 JANUARY         51.14         29.96        24.32          34.56          51.14         78.3   44.87
FEBRUARY        51.34         29.96        24.32          34.56          51.34          83.0   44.94
MARCH           51.70         29.96        24.32          34.56          51.70          87.6   45.27
APRIL           52.08         29.96        24.32          34.56          52.08          89.8   45.80
KAY             52.12         29.96        24.32          34.56          52.12          90.2   46.61
JUNE            55.30         39.24        34.56          34.56          55.30          89.7   47.33
JULY            55.33         39.24        34.56          34.56          55.33          89.6   47.62
AUGUST          55.56         39.24         34.56         34.56          55.56          86.2   47.87
SEPTMBER        56.01         39.24        34.56          34.56          56.01          81.0   48.67
OCTOBER         55.28         39.24        34.56          34.56          55.28          76.3   47.33
NOVEMBER        55.43         39.24        34.56          34.56          55.43          71.8   47.40
DECEMBER        56.31         39.24        39.24          39.24          56.31          66.7   49.21
1990 JAUARY          56.03         39.24        39.24          39.24          56.03         61.1   48.54
FEBRUARY        56.30         39.24        39.24          39.24          56.30          57.5   49.13
MARCH           56.52         39.24        39.24          39.24          56.52          53.2   49.37
APRIL           56.46         39.24        39.24          39.24          56.46          50.4   49.31
MAY             56.98         39.24         39.24         39.24          56.98          49.0   50.34
JUNE            58.77         42.80        42.80          42.80          58.77          48.0   54.10
JULY            58.82         42.80        42.80          42.80          58.82          47.8   54.28
AUGUST          59.88         42.80        42.80          42.80          59.88          47.7   56.51
SEPTEUMER       61.87         42.80        42.80          42.80          61.87          48.2   60.92
OCTOBER         60.85         42.80        42.80          42.80          60.85          48.5   58.66
NOVENBER        59.33         42.80        42.80          42.80          59.33          48.7   53.59
DECEMBER        58.61         47.62        47.62          47.62          58.61          49.0   52.08
1991 JANUARY         58.28         47.62        47.62          47.62          58.28         49.0   51.15
FEBRUARY        56.94         47.62        47.62          47.62          56.94          49.1   48.56
MRCH            56.67         47.62        47.62          47.62          56.67          49.4   48.04
APRIL           57.77         47.62        47.62          47.62          57.77          49.2   50.44
MY              57.47         47.62         47.62         47.62          57.47          49.0   49.74
JUiN            58.19         52.52        52.52          52.52          58.19          49.0   51.42
JULY            58.97         52.52        52.52          52.52          58.97          48.4   52.95
AUGUST          59.79         52.52         52.52         52.52          59.79          48.3   54.37
SPMER           59.52         52.52        52.52          52.52          59.52          48.5   53.51
OCTOBER         59.60         52.52        52.52          52.52          59.60          48.9   53.63
NOVEM ER        61.80         52.52        52.52          52.52          61.80          48.5   57.83
DMBER           62.80         55.00        62.80          62.80          62.80          48.5   59.44
NM: The interest rates used in this table are annualized yields based on seui-annual interest payments.



- 45 -
TMLE: 10
IEP: REAL FINANCIAL RESOURCES MOBILIZATION COPLIANCE
CONSMER       4NQA    1211V
xi       Other            12    PRICE  REAL K2       %CHG
INDEX
1986 JANUARY                                            437.00
FEBRUARY                                          448.10
MARCH                                              456.80
APRIL                                              465.50
KAY                                                469.30
JUNE                                               474.70
JULY                                               478.30
AUGUST                                             491.50
SEPTEMBER                                          503.90
OCTOBER                                            521.40
NOVEMDER                                           531.20
DECEMER                                           538.80
1987 JANUARY      154160.3    126994.6    281154.9   548.50
EBRUARY    151853.6    133203.3    285056.9   562.40
MARC         158393.9    137425.9    295819.8   591.40
APRIL        156660.7    142641.7    299302.4   603.00    504.0
MAY          159750.6    145145.5    304896.1   611.30    500.5
JUNE         168905.3    152696.3    321601.6   625.20    502.4
JULY         173516.0    159471.4    332987.4   631.10    509.3
AUGUST       178237.1    166461.1    344698.2   637.80    520.3
SEPTEMBER   183869.7    174578.1    358447.8   650.90    533.3
OCTOBER      189804.6    176419.7    366224.3   663.50    542.7
NEMBER    182538.1    172350.1    354888.2   693.70    538.7
DECEMBER    219574.7    181732.3    401307.0   713.80    544.1
1988 JANUARY      198667.0    185213.1    383880.1   736.90    536.7
FEBRUARY    228040.0    185560.1    413600.1   773.70    532.3
MARCH        224893.0    197141.8    422034.8   808.40    534.9
APRIL        228200.0    197427.5    425627.5   864.20    517.5           2.7
MAY          240438.0    203437.7    443875.7   904.80    509.9          1.9
JUNE         261351.0    214173.1    475524.1   937.10    503.1          0.1
JULY         269585.0    213805.8    483390.8   928.20    502.8         -1.3
AUGUST       270570.0    217663.8    488233.8  1039.30    497.1         -4.5
SEPTEMBER   279037.0    225454.9    504491.9  1116.20    487.5          -8.6
OCTOBER      277976.0    230663.2    508639.2  1177.00    468.7    -13.6
NOVEMBER    286129.0    234135.3    520264.3  1251.80    442.4    -17.9
DECEMBER    337667.0    249466.2    587133.2  1325.60    435.7    -19.9



- 46-
CONSUIER    4QA    121
Ml      Other          12   PRICE  REAL K2      %CHG
INDEX
1989 JANUARY    324996.0   259805.7   584801.7  1395.80    427.4   -20.4
FEBRUARY    331238.0   265550.0   596788.0  1477.20    420.4   -21.0
MARCH      3314935.0   279353.8   614288.8  1609.70    411.9   -23.0
APRIL      332841.0   288152.1   620993.1  1652.90    395.1   -23.7
MAY         343944.0   299221.9   643165.9  1670.60    386.6   -24.2
JUNE       366585.0   321448.5   688033.5  1727.50    385.1   -23.5
JULY        384539.0   321149.5   705688.5  1750.90    390.5   -22.3
AUGUST     378986.0   329481.7   708467.7  1796.40    395.2   -20.5
SEPTENER   391849.0   353312.8   745161.8  1882.90    397.9   -18.4
0OCTBER    408005.0   359680.5   767685.5  1932.40    397.6   -15.2
NOVElER   406931.0   369404.4   776335.4  1992.40    394.3   -10.9
DECEtlER    466307.0   384563.1   850870.1  2044.70    399.7    -8.3
1990 JANUARY    439412.0   405118.8   844530.8  2121.20    400.3    -6.3
FEBRUARY    457450.0   421609.3   879059.3  2219.40    400.0    -4.8
NARCH      463139.0   467305.4   930444.4  2312.30    403.2    -2.1
APRIL      488980.0   468331.6   957311.6  2417.10    398.2        0.8
MY         472431.0   472328.1   944759.1  2487.60    393.6        1.8
JUNE       515244.0   509391.5  1024635.5  2550.90    395.0        2.6
JULY        513169.0   515081.7  1028250.7  2632.20    392.0       0.4
AUGUST     524961.0   535050.3  1060011.3  2674.30    392.1    -0.8
SEPTEUMER   551377.0   571259.1  1122636.1  2767.00    398.6       0.2
OCTOBER    571211.0   606846.3  1178057.3  2865.10    401.0        0.8
NOVE11ER   592022.0   661371.1  1253393.1  2985.70    408.3        3.6
DECEBER   709668.0   690679.3  1400347.3  3057.30    423.7         6.0
1991 JANUARY    638250.0   724390.8  1362640.8  3191.40    429.0        7.2
FEBRUARY    665978.0   751732.8  1417710.8  3315.00    433.1       8.3
MARCH      685277.0   775136.6  1460413.6  3445.00    434.1        7.7
APRIL      740031.0   804675.6  1544706.6  3556.70    428.2        7.5
MAY        748291.0   820002.8  1568293.8  3707.80    427.2        8.5
JUNE       811217.0   873598.4  1684815.4  3800.70    431.1        9.2
JULY       791910.0   896122.4  1688032.4  3868.30    434.2    10.8
AUGUST     831654.0   956166.2  1787820.2  3973.30    438.1    11.7
SEPTIEBER   861638.0  1001628.6  1863266.6  4153.60    444.6    11.5
OCTOBER    843081.0  1024881.1  1867962.1  4286.80    442.7    10.4
NOVEMBER   870149.0  1050700.5  1920849.5  4383.10    443.1        8.5
DECEMBER   1039481.0  1131244.7  2170725.7  4554.90    449.8       6.2



