Dmnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Repat No. P-4175-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USM115.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
March 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cszcr .unAL
Currency Unit: Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1985            December 1985       February 1986
(Average Multiple Rates)      (Unified Rate)      (Unified Rate)
US$1       - S/.82            - S/.97             - S/.110.O
S/. I      - US$.O1           - US$  .01          - Us$.009
S/. 1,000  - US$12.19         - US$10.30          - US$9.09
Fnca YmR
January 1 to December 31
ABaxvnouNS
BCE            -  Banco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
BEDE           -  Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollo (Ecuadorian Development
Bank)
BEV            -  Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BNF            -  Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CFN            -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance
Corporation)
COFIEC         -  Compania Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A. (Ecuadorian
Development Company)
DFC            -  Development Finance Company
ECUFINSA       -  Financiera Ecuatoriana de Financiamiento. S.A. (Ecuadorian
Financing Company)
FINANQUIL      -  Financiera Guayaquil, S.A. (Guayaquil Finance Company)
FINANSA        -  Compania Financiera Nacional, S.A. (National Finance
Company)
FINANSUR       -  Financiera del Sur, S.A. (Southern Finance Company)
FINIBER        -  Financiera Ibero-Americana, S.A. (Ibero-American Finance
Company)
FOPINAR        -  Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Empresa y la Artesania
(Development Fund for Small Scale Enterprise and Artisans)
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
IESS           -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social (Ecuadorian
Institute of Social Security)
IMF            -  International Monetary Fund
MICEI          -  Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
IDUSTIALnPmU    PtoJEcr
LOAN AND PROJW= StRAY
Borrower:         Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:    Part A: The Government of Ecuador, which will receive
foreign exchange to finan_.e essential imports.
Part B:  Private Ecuadorian manufacturing or agroindustrial
enterprises; the Central Bank (BCE); the Superinten-
dency of Banks; the Superintendency of Companies; and
financial intermediaries.
lsount:           US$115 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and charges.
Relending Terms: The Borrower, through its agent, BCE, would onlend US$64.45
million equivalent in sucres from Part B of the loan to
eligible financial intermediaries at variable positive real
interest rates. Financial intermediaries would onlend these
resources to project beneficiaries at the rates established
from time to time by the Monetary Board. The intermediaries
would receive a spread initially of 5 percent p.a. and BCE
would retain a 0.25 percent fee. The revenues from the dif-
ference between the Bank's lending rate plus BCE's fee, and
the interest rates charged to financial intermediaries, would
be used by BCE, as agent, to cover the foreign exchange risk
on the Bank loan; however, any shortfall would be made up by
the Government, which would assume the foreign exchange risk
and pay the commitment fee on the Bank loan. US$0.2 million
equivalent from the proposed loan would be made available to
the Superintendency of Banks, and US$0.2 million to the Super-
intendency of Companies on terms similar to those for sub-
loans. US$.05 million would be lent to the Association of
Development Banks on commercial terms acceptable to the Bank.
US$0.1 million would be made available to BCE as a grant.
Project           The objectives of the project would be to encourage trade,
Description:      industrial, and financial policy reforms; promote efficient
industrial development; and strengthen regulatory agencies and
the analytical capabilities of financial intermediaries. To
achieve these objectives, the loan would provide (i) US$50
million equivalent to finance essential imports in support of
a series of measures to liberalize trade, industrial, and
financial sector policies; (ii) US$64.45 million equivalent to
I Thu document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
financial intermediaries for onlending to industrial enter-
prises to finance fixed assets and permanent working capital;
and (iii) US$550,000 to finance programs of technical assist-
ance to strengthen the analytical capabilities of the Central
Bank and the financial intermediaries, and the regulatory
capabilities of the Superintendencies of Banks and Companies.
Jbnefits:         The project would support recent far-reaching industrial,
trade, and financial sector policy reforms which would begin
to reorient fundamentally Ecuador's model of industrial
development and strengthen the capacity of the financial
system to mobilize and allocate domestic resources more
effectively. It would also promote development of efficient
industrial enterprises. About 90 investment projects creating
about 3,400 new jobs would be financed. Further benefits
would result from the associated dialogue with the Government
on resource mobilization, interest rates, and industrial
policies.
RiAks:            The major risks facing the macroeconomic reforms which the
project would support relate to their political sustainability
and the maintenance of an attractive exchange rate for export
promotion. At the institutional level, some financial inter-
mediaries are in a weakened financial condition resulting from
the economic difficulties of recent years. In order for these
institutions to be eligible to use loan resources, they would
have to meet eligibility criteria designed to strengthen their
financial structures and performance. To the extent that some
of these institutions cannot participate, commitment of Bank
funds could be delayed. Moreover, some participating finan-
cial intermediaries may again experience financial difficul-
ties which could delay subloan repayments. Technical assist-
ance included in the project to strengthen regulatory agencies
should limit this risk. Also, depending upon the rate of eco-
nomic recovery in Ecuador and the potential short-term impact
of import liberalization and interest rate reforms, demand for
project resources for the credit component could slacken.
However, even if loan disbursements slowed somewhat, project
benefits arising from individual subprojects and the technical
assistance programs should still be realized.



- iii -
Estigated Costs
Local  Foreign   Total
I(US$ millon)-
Estimated Costs:
Part A
Imports 1/                                    50.00    50-00
Part B
Investment Projects                  33.00    69.34   102.34
Technical Assistance                  0.11      0.55     0.66
Total Project Costs 2/                 33.11   119.89   153.00
Financing Plan:
Bank                                    -       115.00   115.00
Financial Interme-
diaries                                -         4.89     4.89
Project Beneficiaries                  33.00      -       33.00
BCE, Superintendency of
Banks, Superintendency
of Companies, financial
intermediaries                         0.11     -         0.11
33.11   119.89   153.00
Estimated Disbursements:
1987   1988    1989   1990   1991   1992    1993
'US$ millions by Bank Fiscal Year)
Annual       51.3   10.4    16.3   16.9   11.0    6.5       2.6
Cumulative   51.3   61.7    78.0   94.9  105.9  112.4   115.0
Rate of Return:   The minimum rate for subprojects would be 12 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5874-EC dated March 3, 1986.
! The US$50 million included in this project represents about 2.5 percent
of Ecuador's projected 1986 imports. The Bank and the Government are
beginning discussions which could lead to cofinancing being sought in
the context of this project.
2/  The tax content of the project would be approximately US$9.2 million (9
percent of the cost of investments).



INTRNAIO&LMMN POR RECOU1STZUCTIOE AND N LKVU.ONE
REPORT AND RE0jIIENDATION OF TUE PRESIDENT OF THE IRaD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECWADO PFOR A
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJE
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for US$115 million equivalent to help finance an
Industrial Finance Project. The loan would be repayable over 17 years on a
fixed amortization basis, including four years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and charges. The Government, would provide
its agent, the Central Bank (BCE), with US$50 million equivalent from the
loan for the purchase of essential imports. Additionally, the Government,
through BCE would onlend US$64.45 million equivalent in Sucres from the loan
to eligible participating financial intermediaries to finance subloans
bearing variable positive real interest rates to be determined periodically
by the Monetary Board, consistent with criteria agreed with the Bank. BCE
would retain a fee of 0.25 percent p.a. of subloan amounts. Financial inter-
mediaries would onlend these resources to project beneficiaries at the rates
established by the Monetary Board. The intermediaries would receive a spread
initially of 5 percent p.a. Subloans would have a maximum maturity of.12
years and would be made on terms which would take into account the life of
assets to be financed and the repayment capacity of sub-borrowers. The
remaining US$0.55 million of the loan would finance project-related technical
assistance. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
loan, but would cover such risk from the proceeds of the interest rate
charged to financial intermediaries, less BCE's fee and the Bank's interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 5676-EC
entitled -Ecuador: Public Investment RevIev was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on December 16, 1985. The subsequent paragraphs reflect the
findings of that report as well as those of an earlier general economic memo-
randum, Report No. 5094-EC entitled  Ecuado::  An Agenda for Recovery and
Sustained Growth- distributed on October 5, 1984. Annex I provides the main
social and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the 1970s as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Amazon
region and in 1972 the country became a net oil exporter. In 1973 world oil
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I in Report No. P-4110-EC of
March 3, 1986.



-2 -
prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings doubled. During the 1970s,
Ecuadorian income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate unprece-
dented in its history. By 1983 per capita GNP had risen to US$1,430, placing
Ecuador firmly among the Bank's middle-income borrowers.
4.        Between 1960 and 1980, much social progress was made.  Life expec-
tancy increased by ten years; death and infant mortality rates dropped by
more than 40 percent; and school enrollment expanded rapidly. By 1980
virtually all children were attending primary school, and a third of the
relevant cohort attended schools of higher education. Today's citizens are
better educated, in better health, and better fed than at any other time in
Ecuador's history. Nevertheless, because of the low level from which Ecuador
started, Ecuador's social indicators lag behind those of other countries with
similar levels of per capita income. Moreover, the benefits of growth were
not evenly distributed. While a sizeable middle class emerged, about 40 per-
cent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty.
5.        Highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal
access to public services explain much of Ecuador's skewed income distribu-
tion. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive their liveli-
hood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are small-less
than 5 hectares-and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low levels of educa-
tion, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of technical inputs, and
limited access to credit and to commercial marketing channels contribute to
low farm productivity and incomes. But uneven distribution of the oil income
also accounts for the disparities in social conditions. Thus, during the
1970s only about a quarter of total public investment was channeled to the
rural areas, where 56 percent of the population and most of the poor live.
6.        For the years 1982-83, Ecuador not only suffered from declining
international oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending, but also
from the ravages of the Nino current which practically wiped out cocoa
exports (a major source of foreign exchange), severely damaged the country-
side, and forced the country to import foodstuffs. Normally domestic produc-
tion meets the country's food needs. Per capita income dropped in 1982, and
in 1983 it dropped by more than 5 percent, resulting in increased unemploy-
ment and severe liquidity problems for Ecuador's financial and industrial
sectors. Ecuador has only begun to emerge from this severe recession; real
GDP grew by about 3-3.5 percent yearly in 1984-85.
The Impact of Petroleum
7.        While the immediate causes for Ecuador's economic downturn in 1982
may be traced to falling oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lend-
ing, these factors only exacerbated pending problems, as the country had
embarked on an unsustainable economic course. After the initial burst of oil
exports in 1973, the country's volume of exports remained practically
constant; export earnings increased mainly because the international price of
oil went up, and the country's income increased because the terms of trade
turned sharply in its favor. By 1980, the increased income made available
since 1975 by relatively higher export prices was adding 8 percent to
Ecuador's yearly income. The increased expenditures of the public sector-



-3-
through which much of this income passed-were partially responsible for the
improvement in the nation's living standards and physical infrastructure, as
well as for accelerated industrial production.
8.        Unfortunately, this income also had three adverse effects.  First,
it slackened efforts to collect taxes from the non-oil portion of the eco-
nomy. Thus, while petroleum revenues doubled relative to GDP between 1973
and 1983, non-oil taxes, including social security contributions, fell from
17 percent of GDP in 1973 to 10 percent in 1982, and total revenues, relative
to GDP, stagnated.
9.        Second, because oil taxes were painless for the Ecuadorian con-
sumer, there was an incentive to earmark them for various subsidies--imports,
housing, roads, and education-and to keep domestic petroleum product prices
frozen at the 1972 level. By 1980, the Ecuadorian consumer was paying only
US$0.10 for a gallon of gasoline. The subsidy implicit in the difference
between world prices and domestic prices was equivalent to about 8 percent of
1980 GDP.
10.      Third, the abundance of revenues and their ease of collection
diminished incentives to control the growth of public expenditures. Current
expenditures went up from 16 percent of GDP in 1973 to 24 percent in 1982.
Public sector savings decreased to such an extent that the public sector sur-
plus of 1973 (equivalent to 3 percent of GDP) became a deficit equivalent to
8 percent of GDP by 1982.  Because c: its status as an oil exporter, Ecuador
was able to finance this deficit abroad with ease, but at a price.  The
public external debt more than doubled between end-1979 and end-1983; econo-
mic adjustment was deferred until Ecuador found its access to foreign funds
severely limited. The abundance of oil income also affected Ecuador's
exchange rate, allowing it to appreciate in real terms without causing finan-
cial problems. This made imports cheaper for Ecuadorian industrialists and
consumers, but it also meant that non-oil exports suffered. With the
important exception of shrimp, non-oil exports grew slowly in volume after
1974. Like the public sector, the external sector would also have encoun-
tered problems after 1980 had it not been for recourse to large external
borrowings.
11.       Monetary policies complemented both exchange rate and fiscal poli-
cies. Negative real interest rates led to a decline of financial savings
relative to GDP. But Ecuador's financial system expanded credit rapidly in
nominal and real terms, despite poor domestic resource mobilization, because
foreign banks provided the Central Bank with increased resources. The
external sector, with a fixed exchange rate, gave vent to what otherwise
would have been inflationary pressures by increasing the supply of goods to
the economy through imports. Heavy external borrowing provided the needed
foreign exchange. Financial institutions, like the public and external sec-
tors, became in effect dependent on petroleum (through the Central Bank) and
ultimately on external borrowing, through guarantees they provided their
clients on foreign loans. They too encountered severe problems when, in
1982, petroleum receipts stagnated and Ecuador's access to external funds
became severely limited.



-4-
Rei.t Events
12.       During 1981/82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil
prices began to decline. Export earnings fell by about 8 percent in 1982.
Despite a reduced volume of imports, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments exceeded US$1 billion, about 9 percent of GDP. To
finance it, the authorities borrowed short-term and used up about US$460 mil-
lion of the country's international reserves, almost depleting them in the
process. When the economic downturn worsened in 1983, Ecuador had to manage
with severely limited financial resources as foreign banks restricted their
net, new lending to US$430 million. To make matters worse, the Nino
current's climatic shifts, which had inflicted some damage in 1982, continued
to ravage the countryside with floods.
13.       The authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis were, for the
most part, prompt and in the right direction. First, they dealt with the
exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued for the first time since 1970
and thereafter was adjusted frequently. It now stands at a rate which is as
attractive for exporters as it was in 1970, before the oil boom allowed it to
appreciate. Second, they dealt with the liquidity crisis by temporarily pro-
hibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating principal on the external
private and public debt. Negotiations with the commercial banks for a multi-
year rescheduling covering maturities falling due in 1985-1989 were concluded
in December 1985; a Paris Club agreement was reached in April 1985 to resche-
dule official debt falling due between 1985-1987. Temporary import restric-
tions were eliminated as the liquidity of the Central Bank improved.
14.       A fiscal austerity program was put in place in 1983 in cooperation
with the IMF. The public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of
GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in 1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984.
Ecuador also complied with the rest of the IMF program. Partly as a result,
inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 23 percent; the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. An
EIMF program--a one year SDR 105.5 million stand-by-for 1985/1986 was just
completed. Under this program, a public sector surplus equivalent to about 2
percent of GDP for 1985 was achieved by raising revenues and holding down
expenditures. The exchange rates of the officia'l and intervention markets
were also unified, and inflation, which was about 23 percent for the year,
fell to an annualized rate of about 14 percent during the last half of 1985.
15.       Also, decisions taken prior to the crisis began to bear fruit.
Owing to positive results of exploration efforts undertaken as far back as
1980, and the implementation of a secondary recovery program, oil production
and oil exports rose over the past three years. Foreign contracts for conti-
nued exploration have been signed. Thus, Ecuador appears to be in a
reasonable position to offset partially the more drastic declines in oil
prices that ocurred in early 1986, through further increases in oil produc-
tion.
Outlook
16.       The present Administration which took office in August 1984, is the
second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of military
rule. The Government's economic philosophy essentially supports the market
as an efficient resource allocation mecharism, with minimal Government inter-



vention in economic affairs. It sees the longer-run development of Ecuador
supported by vigorous, export-oriented agricultural and industrial growth,
and recognizes the strategic importance of appropriate relative prices,
including exchange and interest rates, and import tariffs. The Government is
also committed to strengthening private sector development, curtailing the
role of public investment in activities which could be privatized,
encouraging foreign investment, and improving the efficiency of public
investment and operations.
17.       Since coming to office, the Administration has taken a number of
important and politically difficult corrective measures: it has devalued the
sucre again and unified the multiple official exchange rate markets; it
raised domestic petroleum products prices; it improved the interest rate
structure; it successfully obtained a multi-year rescheduling of its external
debt; it took steps to liberalize trade; and it moved to free prices in the
agricultural sector. It also mounted a campaign to attract foreign invest-
ment and subscribed to several investment guarantee schemes, including HIGA.
These are important measures in the right direction; they should encourage
more efficient utilization of resources and stimulate exports, agricultural
production and domestic savings, and encourage foreign investment.
18.       Because of the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years,
which have raised the price of oil in sucre terms, oil exports amounted to 18
percent of GDP in 1985. Virtually all oil income accrues to the public sec-
tor. Despite the recent sharp drop in oil prices, the oil sector will con-
tinue to be essential to the economy. Adjustment to the loss of income
(estimated to be close to half a billion dollars in 1986) will require faster
shifts to non-oil sources of exports and fiscal revenues over the medium
term. However, in the short run, oil still represents over half of current
exports. Restricted fiscal revenues will require tightening of already
frugal fiscal policies. An adequate flow of resources to the private sector
from both domestic and foreign sources will be essential to sdpport further
reccvery from the recent recession. Indeed, a public sector surplus may well
be required to ensure that the private sector can expand its activities.
This delicate balance between public and private sector needs underscores the
importance of good public sector management. The Bank's recent public
investment review found Ecuador's ongoing program generally sound, but recom
mended that petroleum exploration and production be accelerated and that no
sizable new projects be begun for a few years. An update of the program,
reflecting reduced foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues, will be
needed.
19.       Ecuador will almost surely continue facing a shortage of foreign
exchange in the next few years, given recent oil price declines. The Bank's
most recent economic projections (see Annex I) were made on a higher oil
price expectation, and were consistent with both the Government's and the
IMF's programs. The Government, along with both the Bank and the IMF, is now
reviewing Ecuador's revised prospects. In view of the far-reaching economic
effects of the most recent drop in oil prices, both the Bank and the IMF have
scheduled economic missions to Ecuador for February-March 1986, to undertake
further analysis.  Nevertheless, it is already clear that Ecuador must likely
quicken and deepen its adjustment program, while marshalling further external
funds to assist its response to the oil price drops. Hence, the Government,



-6-
the Bank, and the IMP are discussing with Ecuador's commercial creditors the
possibility of further financing. Because of Ecuador's determined efforts to
adjust its economy--and its creditors' positive responses so far--we believe
Ecuador remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - RAW( GROUP OPERATIONS IN EWCADOR  2/
20.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Including the recently signed Agriculture
Sector and Public Sector Management Loans, the Bank and IDA have extended 34
loans and 6 credits to Ecuador totalling US$733.6 million net of cancella-
tions. As of September 30, 1985, US$455.3 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, including a large
textile company, a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise and a
development finance company. As of September 30, 1985, commitments for these
operations amounted to US$28 million, of which IFC held US$6.7 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
operations as of September 30, 1985.
21.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the insuffi-
ciency of the country's public sector managerial and technical resources-a
constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic and social
development. In recent years, the Government and Bank staff have worked
together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among other initiatives, a
Special Action Program for the country provided for revolving funds in five
projects. As a result of these general efforts, disbursements rose from
US$26 million in FY83 to US$42 million in FY85. The country has set up a
monitoring committee for all externally financed projects which should rein-
force efforts to accelerate disbursements. The Bank plans annual portfolio
implementation reviews to detect and resolve specific obstacles to execution
of Bank-financed projects; the first took place in November 1985.
22.       Baik and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be over-
come. To date, approximately 26 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two were to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations aimed at
improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first live-
stock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversi-
fication in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastructure. Since
then, the Bank Group has made ten other loans and credits for agriculture and
fisheries, seven loans to support industrial development, and two for pre-
investment studies. These productive sector loans comprise 58 percent of
2/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II in Report No. P-4110-EC of
March 3, 1986.



-7-
total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social sectors-educa-
tion, water supply and urban development--now accounts for about 16 percent
of total Bank lending.
23.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support, in close
cooperation with the IMF, Government initiatives in macroeconomic and sector
reforms over the medium term. This will be achieved through a series of sec-
tor and project loans aimed principally at supporting policy improvements in
energy, agriculture, and industry, and developing social and economic infras-
tructure. In addition to the design and adoption of adequate sector poli-
cies, Bank lending will emphasize the generation of exports and employment.
Besides the Industrial Finance Project recommended in this report, for the
near term the Bank is preparing small-scale industry, power engineering,
agricultural credit, and water supply operations. In addition to Bank lend-
ing, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations in agribusiness,
fisheries, petroleum refining, hotels and merchant banking.
24.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
nas been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstanding (including
undisbursed) from IDB to the ccuntry as of December 31, 1985, totalled about
US$1.2 billion equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the
power, agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to
the country have come from the Fund for Special Onerations and normally carry
concessional terms. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major devel-
opment lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-
oriented projects continuing to account for a large share of its lending pro-
gram. By December 1985, USAID had about US$158 million in outstanding loans
to Ecuador (including undisbursed). Its program concentrates on urban devel-
opment, agriculture, health and the private sector. In addition to maintain-
ing close contact with USAID, IDB and other aid agencies to assure compatibi-
lity of programs, Bank staff have undertaken a full public sector investment
review which could serve as the basis for a Consultative Group Meeting of
Ecuador's creditors, possibly by end-1986.
25.       As of December 31, 1984, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador (including undisbursed) totaled about
US$7.7 billion, of which US$1.1 bilJ4on was undisbursed. Of the former sum,
the Bank group was owed 4.2 percent; the IDB 12.2 percent and USAID 1.3 per-
cent. Through 1988, the IBRD share of Ecuador's outstanding and disbursed
public foreign debt is expected to remain below 7 percent, and the IBRD share
of total public foreign debt service Is projected to remain about 5 percent.
PART IIZ - THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECURS
26.       In recent years the Bank has been associated with extensive indus-
trial and financial sector work in Ecuador. This has included (i) a 1982
study of ways to reduce overall effective protection in the industrial
sector; (ii) a study undertaken under the Fifth Development Banking Project
(Loan No. 2096-EC) of the industrial incentives system; (iii) a recently con-



- 8 -
cluded Bank review of the financial sector; and (iv) recent discussions with
the Government on trade, Industrial, and financial policies. As a result of
these efforts, an understanding of the major policy issues affecting the
industrial and financial sectors has been obtained and discussed with the
Government. This has formed the basis for measures which have or are to be
taken on trade and financial sector reforms, some of the most important of
which are being supported by the proposed loan.
A. The Haufacturing Sector
Structure and Growth of Manufacturing
27.       Manufacturing remains at an early stage of development.  Activities
such as food processing, textiles, and wood processing still account for
about three-quarters of manufacturing value added. Most production is sold
in the domestic market and is highly dependent upon imported inputs. The
sector has accounted for about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, and in 1983
employed about 320,000 workers (11 percent of the work force). During the
economic expansion from 1972 to 1982, manufacturing was Ecuador's leading
growth sector, expanding at an average annual real rate of 9.5 percent. How-
ever, the growth of manufacturing value added fell from 6.9 percent in 1982
to a negative 1.9 percent in 1983, reflecting the impact of economic reces-
sion, severe shortages of raw materials resulting from import restrictions
and poor weather conditions, and the lack of foreign as well as domestic cre-
dit. As the economic recession continued, manufacturing value added con-
tinued to decline by about 2 percent in 1984. Preliminary estimates for
1985, however, indicate that manufacturing activities grew at a rate of about
2.5 percent. As a result, it is expected that capacity utilization (which
averaged about 65 percent in 1984) as well as investment in fixed assets will
increase. The manufacturing sector's contribution to exports has been
minimal during the past decade.  Excluding processed foodstuffs, shrimp, and
fuel oil, manufactured exports never amounted to even 5 percent of total
exports (or 15 percent of non-petroleum exports). This situation, which is
largely due to the anti-export bias of the import substituting policies
adopted by the country, has worsened since 1983, owing to the closure of the
Andean Market-Ecuador's major market for manufactured exports-and Ecuador's
failure to penetrate new ones.
28.       More than 80 percent of manufacturing employment and of manufac-
turing value added is generated by firms located in Guayaquil and Quito.
Firms in the Guayaquil area account for the major shares of food, paper, and
chemical industries, while firms in the Quito area concentrate on textiles,
wood products, metal products, machinery and equipment. Lack of appropriate
infrastructure for industrial development in the rest of the country has
apparently prevented a wider geographical location of industry, offsetting
the impact of Government incentives aimed at encouraging industrial growth
away from the country's traditional growth centers.
29.       Manufacturing industry is also characterized by a small, modern
oligopolistic segment of import substituting industries that has been super-
imposed on a largely traditional sector where small firms prevail. In most



industries less than four firms control between 50 and 95 percent of the
domestic market. This structure is largely the result of the administration
and implementation of the Industrial Incentive Law, which induced investors
to over-dimension their plants as a way to prevent the entry of competitors,
since the existence of idle installed capacity could prevent the granting of
incentives to new firms. To help remedy this and other problems, new regula-
tions were issued by the current Administration in January 1985 (para. 35).
30.       Prospects for sustained manufacturing output growth are dim if they
continue to depend entirely upon the expansion of domestic demand. The
current efforts of the Government to overcome the recent balance of payments
crisis and inflation call for a restrictive domestic credit policy, which in
turn will reduce the impact of domestic demand expansion as a source of
growth in the short-term. Export expansion and more efficient import substi-
tution would have to provide the basis for new sources of growth. Thus,
industrial prospects will depend on the speed with which past policies can be
reformulated to assure the increased efficiency of industry and competitive-
ness of manufacturing exports.
Industrial Policy Framework
31.       Current industrial incentives were established by the 1957 Law of
Industrial Incentives; they are also influenced by trade and foreign exchange
policies. The core of the law emphasizes the development of import-substitu-
tion industries. Trade policies have provided high tariffs for final con-
sumer goods and low tariffs for raw materials, intermediate, and capital
goods. Protection from imports has also been provided through numerous quan-
titative restrictions, import prohibitions and prior authorizations for
imports. This policy framework, and, until 1982, the fixed exchange rate for
inputs and machinery imports, provided high effective protection to domestic
industry, encouraged capital-intensive industries, and hindered the develop-
ment of export-oriented activities. Thus, the high levels of protection
granted to industry encouraged the establishment of enterprises that do not
take advantage of the country's natural resource endowment and that are eco-
nomically inefficient. Recent World Bank estimates indicate that the cost to
the country of creating one job in the protected electric appliances and
plumbing fixtures subsectors may be as high as five times the comparable cost
to the country of creating one job in export activities, such as plywood pro-
duction. These estimates--which indicate that for every job created making
electrical appliances, four workers remained potentially unemployed--illus-
trate the burden imposed upon Ecuador's work force by high protection.
32.       The Administration, however, has begun formulating a new industrial
development strategy aimed at fostering export expansion, more efficient
import substitution, and more intensive use of domestic resources. Accord-
ingly, important positive policy decisions have been taken in the areas of
industrial and trade policies and some major measures already have been
implemented. It is one of the objectives of the proposed project to provide
resources to support the Government in dealing with the impact of these
measures on the economy. The Government's program is described in the
following paragraphs.



- 10 -
Unification of the Foreign rExcbange Market
33.       Between 1970 and early 1980, the official exchange rate appreciated
by 40-48 percent. This, combined with the multiple exchange rate system
which prevailed during that period, introduced major distortions in the allo-
cation of industrial resources, systematically reducing the competitiveness
of Ecuadorian exports and encouraging the development of inefficient import-
substitution industries. Until September 1984, when all non-oil exports and
most imports were transferred from the official foreign exchange market
(where the rate of exchange was 67 sucres/US$) to the 'intervened foreign
exchange market (where the rate was 97 sucres/US$), manufactured exports were
discriminated against, as only limited access to the higher 'intervened- rate
was permitted for export earnings. Import substituting industries however,
not only benefitted from high protection granted through quantitative
restrictions, but also from access to the official rate to pay for imports of
inputs and machinery, and from the additional protection granted by the
premium on foreign exchange in the 'intervened' market.
34.       The unification of the official and -intervened- foreign exchange
markets, formally completed in November 1985, represents a major step in
eliminating these basic distortions hindering a healthier industrial sector.
Regulations of the Industrial Incentive Law
35.       In an effort to streamline industrial incentives and encourage
manufacturing exports, more intensive use of domestic resources and better
use of installed capacity, new regulations for the Industrial Incentive Law
were issued in January 1985. Major reforms included: (i) granting of tax
benefits based on export performance; (ii) reductions of income tax exonera-
tions, especially for sectors with excess capacity, thereby eliminating a
major inducement for the current oligopolistic structure of the manufacturing
sector; (iii) introduction of progressive reduction and time limitations on
tariff exonerations for raw materials and intermediate products; a maximum
period of 4 years for existing enterprises, and of 10 years for new enter-
prises, has been established. Under previous regulations, no reductions in
tariff exonerations over time were required and, although the maximum period
for obtaining benefits from the Industrial Incentive Law was 15 years, in
practice, enterprises benefitted for indefinite periods, as these benefits
were renewed automatically upon their expiration.
Ellination of Quantitative Restrictions
36.       In order to eliminate basic distortions in the allocation of
resources caused by quantitative restrictions, the Government has begun sub-
stituting tariffs for such restrictions. The first step was completed in
March 1985, when import prohibitions that had been introduced in 1982, and
which amounted to about 16 percent of 1981 imports, were eliminated. The
Government is planning to remove the remaining import prohibitions and
replace them with tariffs. The first step, which removed about 20 percent of
the remaining import prohibitions, was implemented in January 1986. Further-
more, the Government has begun to reduce the number of industrial inputs sub-
ject to prior authorization for import, by lifting import licensing require-
ments for about 50 items in February 1986.



- 11 -
Revised Tariff Structure
37.       Until recently, major characteristics of the import tariff struc-
ture were: high dispersion, which discriminated against many types of manu-
facturing activities, thereby hindering efficient resource allocation; and
high tariff levels on manufactured products, which encouraged production for
the domestic market and discouraged exports. It also attracted resources to
manufacturing, thereby discriminating against agricultural production, and
increasing the cost of some manufactured inputs used in the agricultural sec-
tor. In a first major step to lessen these deficiencies, a revised tariff
structure was adopted by the Government in January 1986. Import tariff peaks
were reduced from a maximum (including all surcharges) of 220 percent to 100
percent, 3/ and tariff dispersion was reduced so that over 75 percent of
commodities now have tariffs of 70 percent or less.  Based on these data,
average tariffs and tariff dispersion have been reduced for all tariff cate-
gories by about 30 percent and 50 percent respectively. The reductions in
nominal tariff levels on final products, together with the progressive reduc-
tion of tariff exonerations on imported inputs and raw materials (para. 35),
should reduce recent levels of effective protection significantly. Prelimi-
nary estimates indicate, for example, that effective protection for some
textile products should decline from 120 percent to about 70 percent, and for
footwear products from over 200 percent to less than 100 percent.
38.       The Government plans to continue revising tariff levels in order to
lessen the anti-export bias introduced by tariffs for which exporters are not
adequately compensated, and to improve the internal terms of trade, particu-
larly between the industrial and agricultural sectors. A unit to be esta-
blished in the Central Bank to estimate and monitor shadow prices under the
proposed loan will also monitor, in coordination with the Agricultural Policy
Analysis Group to be financed under the recently approved Agricultural Sector
loan, changes in internal terms of trade and effective protection. The unit
would also propose further imoort tariff reforms.
B. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure and Development
39.       The main institutions in Ecuador's financial system are the Central
Bank (BCE), 32 private commercial banks with about 285 branches; 3 state
banks--the National Development Bank (BNF), the Ecuadorian Housing Bank
(BEV), and the Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE)-and 13 finance corpora-
tions, including the public National Finance Corporation (CFN). There are
also 11 savings and loans associations; more than 25 insurance companies;
various currency exchange offices and securities markets in Guayaquil and
Quito. The Social Security Institute (IESS) is also a major depository for
3/ Except for tariff levels of a few items, which were under import
prohibitions between 1982 and March 1985. These import prohibitions were
initiully replaced by tariff levels of up to 250 percent. The new tariff
for these items ranges up to 125 percent, including surcharges.



- 12 -
financial savings. As a group, commercial banks dominate Ecuador's financial
system, and their outstanding loan portfolio represents 75 percent of total
lending to non-bank borrowers.
40.       Policy-making agencies are the Honetary Board, BCE, and the Super-
intendency of Banks. The Monetary Board sets exchange rate, interest rate,
and other financial policies which are implemented by the BCE and the Super-
intendency of Banks. BCE also provides credit to financial intermediaries,
including special discount credit lines. The Superintendency of Banks
supervises financial intermediaries and is responsible for publishing statis-
tical information on the Danking system.
41.       The principal vehicles for BCE's indirect lending have been the
Financing Funds (Fondos Financieros), which were established in 1973 to
develop and strengthen specific activities that the Government wanted to
encourage. There are currently five Funds (three financed by BCE funds, one
by Treasury budget funds, and one by foreign loans channeled by BCE), includ-
ing one that provides medium-term loans to Small-Scale Enterprises. The
Funds financed by domestic resources grant mostly short-term credit with a
maximum term of two years, and interest rates to final borrowers that are
among the lowest available.
42.       The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970s, mainly because bank
ownership granted access to profitable BCE credit lines and because guaran-
tees for foreign loans to the private sector grew rapidly and appeared pro-
fitable. Additionally, negative real interest rates charged to final
borrowers, and attractive margins and commissions provided to intermediaries,
stimulated lending growth. However, such a situation provided little
incentive for financial institutions to mobilize domestic resources on their
own, and they became increasingly dependent on BCE credits and foreign
borrowings for resources. The structurally flawed financial system which
thus arose became all the more fragi'le because easy granting of bank licenses
led to the establishment of many small, inefficient and undercapitalized
banks. Between 1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21
to 32 and finance companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave liqui-
dity problems beginning in 1983 as foreign resources dwindled and economic
conditions deteriorated. Combined with the devaluation of the sucre, these
factors diminished the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated
obligations guaranteed by the banks. To help financial intermediaries, the
Government carried out a 'sucretization- program under which BCE assumed
foreign debts and the participating institutions became obligated to repay
BCE in sucres over a period of up to seven years. While this program enabled
the immediate liquidity crisis to be managed, one of its legacies was that
BCE credit in 1983 financed about 35 percent of the commercial banks' and up
to 60 percent of finance companies' portfolios.
Interest Rate Policy and Resource Nobilization
43.       Official interest rates are established periodically by the Mone-
tary Board. Judged by international standards, Ecuador has in the past been
quite unsuccessful in mobilizing domestic financial resources. A comparison
for 1980 of a standard measure of financial deepening (the ratio of money
supply (H3) to GDP) for six Latin American countries and Nigeria, an OPEC
nation, revealed that only one country exhibited less financial deepening
than Ecuador.



- 13 -
44.       The poor past performance in resource mobilization is attributable
mostly to the reluctance of prior Governments to adjust interest rates in
response to changes in expected inflation. Until 1981, the authorities
maintained interest rates at levels below inflation. Thus, Ecuadorians
increasingly chose more attractive savings alternatives (foreign financial
assets or unregulated inter-company financial market assets) over deposits
within the Ecuadorian financial system. Since 1981, official interest rates
on savings and time deposits were raised periodically, but until recently
remained below domestic inflation. As a result, there was little improvement
in private domestic resource mobilization. Also, high and variable rates of
inflation and fixed interest rates made it impossible for Ecuadorian finan-
cial institutions to make long-term loans without assuming unreasonable
risks.
45.       To spur domestic resource mobilization, at the end of 1984 the
Government raised official interest rates and introduced large denomination
(over one million sucres) Certificates of Deposit (CDs) bearing unregulated
interest rates. This brought nominal official deposit rates to about 20-23
percent p.a. and effective lending rates to about 25-26 percent p.a. for
loans up to two years, and 26 percent p.a. for loans over two years. CD
rates are about 26 percent on twelve-month deposits; funds mobilized through
such CDs are onlent for a similar term at about 30 percent p.a. These mea-
sures brought official interest rates to positive levels in real terms
(inflation was about 14 percent p.a. for the six months ending December
1985). Moreover, in late August 1985 the Government issued new legislation
to allow long-term financial instruments to carry variable rates to be
adjusted at frequencies determined by the Monetary Board, and amended the
laws governing banks and financieras and the Monetary Law as outlined in
para. 47 below with the purpose of strengthening the financial condition of
Ecuadorian financial institutions.
46.       The changes in interest rates have begun to have a salutary effect
on domestic resource mobilization; during 1985 real deposits in commercial
banks rose over 25 percent and savings deposits and CDs more than doubled in
real terms. Furthermore, the introduction of variable interest rates should
greatly facilitate long-term lending. However, future action will be needed
to allow more automatic adjustment of interest rate levels, especially to
reflect changes in the rate of inflation, which oscillated in recent years
between 14 percent and 62 percent p.a. Moreover, high nominal interest rates
present a problem for long-term loans. Traditional repayment methods for
such loans result in debt service payments which are concentrated in real
terms in the earlier years, imposing liquidity strains on borrowers. During
the dialogue on financial policies, the Bank explored the possibility of
introducing financial instruments which would provide for partial capitaliza-
tion of interest. However, the Government believes that such action would be
difficult to administer and may be less urgent as its anti-inflation program
takes effect.
Recent Legal Reforms
47.       With the purpose of strengthening the financial condition of
Ecuadorian financial institutions, amendments were issued in August 1985 to
the laws governing financieras and banks, and to the Monetary Law. In addi-
tion to permitting variable interest rates on loans of more than two years



- 14 -
term, these amendments included: (i) shortening of the minimum term of cer-
tificates of deposit issued by financieras from 270 days to 90 days, which
they may now repurchase prior to maturity, and permitting the Monetary Board
to revise these terms from time to time; (ii) establishing that total liabi-
lities of financial institutions cannot exceed 15 times paid-in capital and
reserves; (iii) requiring that the loans of any financial institution to any
one person cannot exceed 25 percent of the institution's paid-in capital and
reserves (there are several important exceptions to this exposure limit,
including credits resulting from the sucretization, and credits of less than
180 days covered by adequate guarantees used to finance exports); (iv)
requiring financial institutions to establish a reserve for bad debts equal
to 10 percent of all accounts receivable; and (v) expanding the powers of the
oaperintendency of Banks as a supervisory agency.
Past Bank Lending and Strategy in Industrial and Financial Sectors
48.       The Bank has provided five loans for development finance companies
in Ecuador. These loans total US$155 million, net of cancellations. The
first four DFC loans (Loan 721-EC approved December 15, 1970; Loan 930-EC
approved June 26, 1973; Loan 1359-EC approved December 28, 1976; and Loan
1731-EC approved June 19, 1979) are completed. The fifth loan (2096-EC)
signed April 22, 1982), is fully committed and 92 percent disbursed. A Com-
pletion Report has recently been issued for the third and fourth DFC pro-
jects. Its main findings showed that by September 1983, devaluation, reces-
sion, reduced consumer demand and public sector investment all reduced indus-
try's ability to meet debt service payments on projects financed by DFCs.
Inadequate financial sector policies and supervision by regulatory authori-
ties, as well as weaknesses in DFCs' appraisal and supervision also contri-
buted. The financial statements of DFCs therefore reflected sharply declin-
ing revenues and income. The profitability, liquidity, and financial struc-
tures of DFCs weakened as portfolio problems mounted. These problems are
being addressed under the proposed project.
49.       The Bank has also made two Small Scale Enterprise (SSE) loans and
is processing a third. The first (Loan 1879-EC) for US$20 million was
approved in June 1980 and disbursed one-and-a-half years earlier than expec-
ted. A second SSE operation (Loan 2221-EC) for US$40 million was approved in
December 1982. Execution of the project has proceeded smoothly and the loan
was 95 percent committed at end-1985. Board consideration of a third SSE
loan for US$30 million is scheduled for March 1986.
50.       In line with Government objectives, Bank strategy for the indus-
trial sector is to support employment-intensive and export-generating indus-
tries, as well as those making efficient use of local resources. The pro-
posed project is designed to further the Government's objectives in the
industrial sector, and to support progress on the broader aspects of Bank
strategy, aimed at: (i) encouraging resource mobilization and more efficient
resource allocation through financial sector reforms; and (ii) improving the
industrial and trade policy framework to encourage more efficient industrial
production.



- 15 -
PART IV- TE POJ=C
51.       The proJect was identified by the Bank in October 1984 and was pre-
pared by the Government with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in
July 1985 and the appraisal mission's Report No.5874-EC, dated
March 3, 1986, and entitled -Staff Appraisal Report - Industrial Finance
Project' is being distributed separately. Negotiations for the proposed
project took place in Washington from January 15-22, 1986. The Ecuadorian
delegation was led by Mr. Alfredo Crespo, Subsecretary of Public Credit.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project.
Project Objectives
52.       The proposed project would (i) support changes in trade, industrial
and financial policy; (ii) continue encouraging more efficient domestic
resource mobilization and allocation throught an adequate interest rate
structure; (iii) strengthen the financial condition of financial intermedia-
ries; (iv) provide term credit for efficient industrial development; and (v)
provide technical assistance to: the Government to derive shadow prices for
more effective project evaluation; the Superintendency of Banks and the
Superintendency of Companies to strengthen their supervisory capabilities;
and financial intermediaries to strengthen their project evaluation capabili-
ties.
Project Description
53.       The proposed loan would consist of two parts.  Part A would finance
essential imports in support of the series of measures which have been taken
to liberalize trade, industrial, and financial sector policies, as outlined
in paras. 33-38, 45 and 47, and summarized in Annex IV. These measures-
which complement recent actions to improve resource allocation and the effi-
ciency of the agricultural sector--would represent fundamental steps to
reorient Ecuador's model of industrial development towards a more efficient
one, and strengthen the capacity of the financial system to mobilize and
allocate domestic resources more effectively. They are essential to promote
Eucador's continued adjustment and growth, and are fully consistent with the
Bank's policy dialogue.
54.       Part B would provide long-term loan funds to finance a project with
two distinct components: (i) financing of privately controlled Ecuadorian
manufacturing firms for fixed assets and permanent working capital to ini-
tiate permanent programs to export, or expand or reorient production for
export; to establish efficient new enterprises; or to expand or reorient the
productive capacity of existing firms; and (ii) financing of technical
assistance to: help establish within BCE a mechanism to calculate and update
a set of shadow prices for the economy; strengthen the supervisory capabili-
ties of the Superintendency of Banks and the Superintendency of Companies by
developing and giving training programs for their staff, establishing new
management information systems, etc.; and strengthen the project evaluation
capabilities of the financial intermediaries which are or could become
eligible to participate in the project.



- 16 -
Partlcipating Institutions
55.       Private Financieras.  As discussed in para. 42, during the 1970s
financial repression led to low domestic resource mobilization and heavy
dependence on foreign borrowing. Much of this foreign borrowing was guaran-
teed by local financial intermediaries. By the end of 1982, foreign borrow-
ing had been largely curtailed and economic conditions had deteriorated. The
recession, combined with the negative effects of devaluation, put a number of
firms in financial distress. Their high levels of indebtedness and inability
to repay outstanding loans further weakened business demand and caused a
deterioration in the financial performance of the financieras. The sucreti-
zation of the foreign private debt improved the debt structure of private
borrowers and their liquidity positions; however, it caused a sharp deterio-
ration of the debt/equity ratios of the financieras, from below 10 to 1 at
end-1981 to between 15 to 1 and 25 to 1 at end-June 1984. Some of the finan-
cieras have subsequently obtained fresh capital contributions and capitalized
earnings, thereby improving debt/equity ratios to between 14 to 1 and 19 to 1
at end-1984.
56.       During appraisal, the financial condition of the six largest
private financieras which participated in the Fifth Development Banking Pro-
ject (Loan 2096-EC) and Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) was examined in
detail, including their latest external audit reports and analyses of their
loan portfolios. The external audits of these financieras have been carried
out by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell or Price Waterhouse & Company. In the last
year, the audit reports have been received by the Bank on a timely basis
except for the 1984 audit report for COFIEC which was delayed. Clean audit
opinions were issued during the period for all the financieras except for
FINANSA (1983) and CFN for which qualifications were made concerning the
recoverability of certain loans and the adequacy of the reserves for bad
debts. In both cases appropriate corrective action has been taken. Also,
the status of a number of subprojects financed under the loan was reviewed.
The private financieras studied were ranked according to selected financial
criteria, profitability, portfolio quality, etc. Based on these factors,
three of the private financieras were considered to be in relatively good
financial condition at end-1984; three others would need to take major steps
to increase capital and loan loss provisions in order to qualify for partici-
pation in the proposed loan.
57.       Eligibility criteria have been established for participation in the
proposed loan in order to assure that only financieras meeting certain finan-
cial standards participate, and to encourage the financieras to take steps to
improve their financial condition, including obtaining new capital contribu-
tions from shareholders. Participating institutions would have to maintain a
debt/equity ratio of not more than 15:1 as of the end of 1985; this would be
reduced annually, declining to 12:1 at the end of 1988. Financieras would
also have to meet annual targets '-'ith respect to interest coverage, liquidity
ratios, and exposure limits which were agreed during negotiations. In order
to obtain fresh capital resources for the financieras, improve their
financial structure and mobilize domestic resources, each eligible financiera
would be entitled to use US$9 equivalent from the proposed loan for each
dollar increase in its equity after January 1, 1985, to finance subprojects.
However, no single financial intermediary could commit more than 50 percent
of the loan amount available for sublending under the project. In order to



- 17 -
provide the financieras with an adequate return on equity in real terms, the
initial financial spread on subloans would be 5 percent p.a., and interest
would be required to be charged quarterly. The adequacy of financieras'
spreads would be reviewed semi-annually by the Borrower and the Bank and
adjusted, if warranted, to take into account changes in inflation levels and
their cost and capital structures.
58.       Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN).  Established in 1960, CFN is
the oldest and largest development finance company in Ecuador and the major
provider of medium- and long-term credit to the industrial sector. CFN is
wholly Government-owned. Although its policies and operations must conform
with Government development objectives, CFN is relatively autonomous in its
day-to-day operations. At end-1984, CFN's total assets were about US$200
million equivalent with equity of about US$35 million equivalent. CFN's
financial position deteriorated in recent years as a result of: (i) an
increase in non-earning assets due to the sucretization; (ii) liquidity pro-
blems due to Government delays in reimbursing CFN for foreign exchange
losses; (iii) low returns on equity investments; and (iv) deterioration of
its loan portfolio.
59.       During project preparation, a plan of action for strengthening CFN
financially and institutionally, so that it could meet the same eligibility
criteria for participating in the proposed loan as the private financieras,
was discussed with CFN and the Government. As a result, the Government and
CFN have recently taken a number of important steps. CFN reorganized its
loan administration and established units responsible for collection and for
restructuring problem companies. Loan recoveries have improved and a number
of companies have been restructured.  Moreover, in December 1985, the Govern-
ment took steps to increase effectively CFN's capital by some US$40 million
equivalent. Finally, CFN has taken steps to sell a number of its equity
holdings. These steps will greatly improve the financial structure of CFN
and greatly ameliorate its recent liquidity problems. The capital increase
would reduce CNF's exposure in Aztra (a sugar company which has suffered con-
tinuing financial losses) from 41 percent to about 19 percent, and greatly
reduce its exposure in other companies. The standard loan provisions on
exposure for all participating financial intermediaries would also apply to
CFN.
60.       A plan of further actions agreed for CFN requires (i) CFN to main-
tain its efforts to improve credit collections and strengthen the financial
condition of its clients; (ii) the Government and CFN to take, by June 30,
1986, all necessary measures spelled out in the decree authorizing the capi-
tal increase required to legally effect the increase referred to in para. 59;
(iii) CFN to avoid making loans or capital contributions to Aztra unless the
funds for such purposes are provided by the Government as a capital contribu-
tion or grant to CFN; and (iv) CFN to engage by June 30, 1986, consultants to
strengthen its financial and accounting systems. In addition to the standard
eligibility criteria for all financieras, CFN would need to fulfill all
agreements under the plan of action to continue to be eligible to use the
credit component of the loan.



- 18 -
Nonitorlug
61.       At present, the Financial Policy Unit of BCE establishes and moni-
tors credit discount limits for commercial banks and financieras. Eligibi-
lity and determination of the amount of participation of the financieras
would be governed by criteria agreed with the Bank and applied by this Unit.
The financieras would be required to have their accounts and financial state-
ments audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; they would
be required to furnish to the Bank and to the Financial Policy Unit of BCE,
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of their audited financial statements.
Project Costs and Financing
62.       Part A of the loan would provide US$50 million equivalent to
finance the foreign costs of about 2.5 percent of Ecuador's projected 1986
imports. 4/ Since all policy actions which the loan would support have
been takein, the full US$50 million under Part A would be available for dis-
bursement upon loan effectiveness. Part B of the loan would finance subpro-
jects and technical assistance. The total investment cost of subprojects is
estimated at US$102.3 million. This includes an estimated US$69.3 million in
foreign costs, and US$9.2 million of import duties and sales taxes. In addi-
tion, technical assistance,would cost some US$660,000 (US$240,000 each for
the Superintendencies of Banks and Companies, US$120,000 for BCE, and
US$60,000 for financial intermediaries) making a total cost of US$103
million. Parr B of the proposed loan would provide US$65 million equivalent,
or about 63 percent of the total cost of subprojects and technical assistance
and 93 percent of foreign exchange costs. Beneficiaries would finance about
32 percent and financieras about 5 percent of such costs.
Loan,* Subsidlary Loam and Subloam Terms
63.       The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges. It would be repayable
over 17 years, including 4 years of grace. The Government, through BCE as
its agent, would onlend the proceeds from Part B of the loan to eligible
financial intermediaries for subprojects, except for the portions for tech-
nical assistance. For the latter: (i) US$100,000 from the loan would be
made available to BCE as a grant to carry out a study on shadow pricing; (ii)
US$200,000 from the loan would be made available by BCE to the Superinten-
dency of Banks, and US$200,000 to the Superintendency of Companies to
4/ The Bank and the Government are beginning discussions which could lead to
cofinancing being sought in the context of this project.



- 19 -
carry out their respective technical assistance, and would be repaid on terms
similar to those for subloans; and (iii) US$50,000 would be lent on commer-
cial terms by BCE to the Association of Development Banks for the finan-
cieras' technical assistance. Terms and arrangements for repaying the tech-
nical assistance costs to BCE would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
64.       The remaining US$64.45 million equivalent from Part 3 of the pro-
posed loan would be onlent in sucres to financial intermediaries at variable
positive real interest rates aa they are determined from time-to-time by the
Monetary Board. Financial intermediaries would onlend these resources to
project beneficiaries at the rates established from time-to-time by the Mone-
tary Board. The intermediaries would receive a spread of initially 5 percent
p.a. BCE would retain 0.25 percent p.a. fee to cover its costs of adminis-
tration. The revenues from the difference between the Bank's lending rate
plus BCE's fee, and the rates charged to the financial intermediaries would
be used by BCE, as agent, to cover, in whole or in part, the foreign exchange
risk on the Bank loan. However, any shortfall would be made up by the
Government, which would take the foreign exchange risk and pay the commitment
fee on the Bank loan. On the basis of current official rates (25 percent
p.a.) which would be applicable to subloans, there is an ample spread over
the current World Bank lending rate to cover the difference between domestic
and world inflation (the expected foreign exchange risk). However, this
relationship is likely to change if lending rates are lowered or inflation
levels change significantly. To the extent that the Government continues the
recent trend towards market-based interest rates, interest rate adjustments
should be more responsible to such differentials. Signing of a fiscal agency
agreement between the Government and BCE, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
65.       Subloans for fixed assets (machinery, equipment and civil works)
would be made for up to 12 years, including up to four years of grace, and,
for permanent working capital for up to six years, including up to two years
of grace. Lending terms and grace periods for individual subloans would take
into account the economic life of assets to be financed and the repayment
capacity of sub-borrowers. The maximum cumulative subloan amount from Bank-
funded sources per sub-borrower or group of related firms would be US$5 mil-
lion equivalent. It would be a condition of disbursement for any subloan
that the participating financial intermediary had signed a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with BCE acceptable to the Bank.
66.       The Government has agreed to maintain interest rates on all loans
to the industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels which
are positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987, are also adequate
relative to deposit rates, as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank. The
Government would review with the Bank the adequacy of the level of lending
interest rates at least semi-annually beginning October 1, 1986. It would
also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial
resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed with the Bank. The
adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these occasions. If, during
any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of lending interest
rates, spreads, or domestic financial resource mobilization were inadequate,



- 20 -
and the Government and the Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this,
then the Bank would have the right to withhold financing of fresh subloan
commitments under the proposed loan.
Subproject Review
67.       A review of a number of subprojects financed under the Fifth Devel-
opment Banking Project, indicated that, although subproject evaluation had
impioved since previous DFC projects, areas for improvement still exist. For
example, the analysis of management and markets should be strengthened,
greater allowances should be made for contiugencies In financing plans, loan
terms and grace periods should better reflect project life and implementa.ion
schedules, and greater attention should be given to macroeconomic risk
factors. A format listing all matters to be dealt with in subproject evalua-
tion reports has been discussed and agreed with the financieras. All subpro-
jects submitted to the Bank for financing would be required to follow the
agreed format. In addition, a technical assistance component would be
included in the project to offer training courses to staff of the financieras
and CFN to upgrade their capabilities, especially in market, financial and
economic analysis of projects. Based upon experience under the Fifth Devel-
opment Banking Project, the following free limits for Bank review of subpro-
jects have been agreed for the various financieras:  CFN - US$2 million;
FINANQUIL - US$1 million; COFIEC, FINANSUR and ECUFINSA - US$0.5 million;
FINANSA and FINIBER - US$0.35 million. The free limits would be increased or
decreased during project implementation once the Bank had reviewed the first
four subprojects of any given financiera, and depending upon whether the Bank
was satisfied that the project evaluations submitted had been performed ade-
quately. Financieras other than the above would have no free limits until
the Bank was satisfied with the project evaluations submitted. An economic
evaluation would be required for each subproject with (i) a total investment
cost exceeding US$1 million, or (ii) a subloan exceeding the free limit for
the financiera involved. The minimum required ERR would be 12 percent.
Procurenent
68.       For Part A of the loan, procurement for any item over US$5 million
would be by ICB following standard Bank procedures. Items costing less than
US$5 million equivalent would be procured following normal procedures of the
purchaser.  For Part B, the financial intermediaries would satisfy themselves
during subproject appraisal that procurement items were suitable for the res-
pective investment project and reasonably priced, and that the beneficiaries
had canvassed the main available sources of supply and were purchasing from
advantageous sources. These procedures would conform to normal commercial
practice for DFC-type projects. As under the Fifth Development Banking Pro-
ject, informal international or local solicitation of offers would be fol-
lowed for any purchase over US$250,000. Consulting services and goods for
technical assistance would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Disbsirsments
69.       Bank disbursements under Part A of the loan would be for 100 per-
cent of the c.i.f. costs of eligible imports, but only for goods for which
payment was made within 120 days from the date on which they were landed in
Ecuador. Eligible imports would be all goods except those normally excluded



- 21 -
under Bank policy-based loans, such as alcohol, tobacco, armaments, etc.;
goods financed by other Bank loans; and expenditures under contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements under Part B of the loan would
be for: 100 percent of the direct foreign expenditures for imported goods
and services to finance fixed assets (machinery and equipment) and permanent
working capital (inventories, raw materials); 70 percent of local
expenditures for imported goods procured locally; and 35 percent of local
expenditures for locally produced goods and services and for civil works.
These percentages would reflect the direct and indirect foreign exchange
cost. Disbursements under the technical assistance components would be for
100 percent of the costs of consulting services and equipment, excluding
local taxes, local subsistence costs, and import duties. Disbursements under
both Part A and Part B of the loan, except for technical assistance, would be
made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). These would be certified for
Part A disbursements by BCE, and for Part B disbursements by the
financieras. The supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
financieras and BCE and made available to Bank missions for review. To
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account of US$15 million equivalent would
be established in BCE. The Special Account and SOEs would be subject to
annual audits carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The final date for submission of subloans would be December 31, 1988, and the
Closing Date for the loan would be December 31, 1993.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.       Benefits.  At the macroeconomic level, the industrial, trade, and
financial sector policy reforms which the project would support represent
fundamental steps to reorient the model of industrial development pursued in
recent decades in Ecuador, and strengthen the capacity of the financial sys-
tem to mobilize and allocate domestic resources more effectively. These
policy changes are essential to promote Ecuador's continued economic adjust-
ment and growth. In the medium-term, by promoting exports, improving the
internal terms of trade between industry and agriculture, and promoting
development of domestic resource-based industries which Ecuador's comparative
advantage can support, the trade and industrial sector reforms should
stimulate demand for agricultural products, promote urban and rural employ-
ment and help improve the living conditions of the country's poor. The pro-
posed project would also provide long-term resources for financing efficient
industrial enterprises in Ecuador and help them adapt to the new policy
framework. About 90 investment projects costing an estimated US$102.3 mil-
lion and creating about 3,400 new jobs would be financed. Further important
benefits would result from the continued dialogue with the Government on
interest rates and industrial policies which affect the environment in which
industrial enterprises operate. Financial policy reforms should in the
longer-run reduce the reliance of financial intermediaries on the Government
and the Bank for resources.
71.       Risks. The major risks facing the macroeconomic reforms which the
project would support relate to their political sustainability and the main-
tenance of an attractive exchange rate for export promotion. Although the
policy reforms supported by Part A of the proposed loan have already been
taken, the Government will likely be under continuing pressure to modify or
reverse them until they demonstrate widespread, tangible benefits. So far,
the new Government has maintained its original policy objectives despite
resistance to liberalization. Maintenance of an adequate exchange rate,



- 22 -
vhich will be critical for the success of the trade liberalization measures
and export expansion, is being closely monitored by the IMF. Both the Bank
and the Fund have coordinated their analyses of export incentives so that the
positions of the two institutions are consistent.
72.       At the institutional level, some financial intermediaries are in
poor financial condition and may be unable to meet the eligibility criteria
in order to use loan resources to finance subprojects. As a result, comnit-
ment of Bank funds could be delayed. In addition, participating financieras
may again experience financial difficulties which could delay repayment of
subloans to BCE. Technical assistance included in the project to strengthen
regulatory agencies should limit this risk. Also, depending upon the rate of
economic recovery in Ecuador and the potential short-term impact of import
liberalization and interest race reforms, demand for resources from the
credit component of the project could slacken. However, even if loan
disbursements were somewhat slower than forecast, project benefits arising
from individual subprojects and the technical assistance programs should
still be realized.
PART V - RKYO i oDATI0
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 3, 1986
Washington, D. C.



-23-
ANNEX I
-^t SML                                       Page 1If 
NM                 CHOI~sr uBcul IIUXUA  t
190lk      1970t  =un&              LAT. iMICa * CAR             guOn
AA (cM. I. o-
TOTAL                      -       283.0       203.0       253.0
AACOLIU3L                           47.0        00.0        03.3
G   IP  CA        (UM)                  .. *                 1420.0            1873.9                    2144.3
(KiLOGRAMS Or OIL UhA&UMT)         151.0       223.0       371.0             993.0                    1119.6
POM1O _ WXM 3SUM
POPULATIW.MID-TUA (TE _USD)   4422.0          534201.0 .260
DUA  PWULAO  CR Of TOTAL)           34.4        39.5        40.4              67.7                      47.5
PoPULATIOU PrBmEC=0I
POtIUlAON ri TM  2000 (HILL)                              12..
W.tZ0U*a? PoILATZ   CHILL)                                23.0
POPULUXou 1_U                                              1.9
POPULATION DUIITY
PU SQ. KM.                        13.0        20.7        29.0              00.0                      14.7
PU SQ. M. AM. LAWD                94.        120.        122.3             9*.1                     U10.9
POOIATION AG! STRucIURI (C)
0-14 Yu                          44.4        45.3        43.0              30.3                      31.2
13-64 us                          51.9        so0         32.7              57.1                    0U.5
05 AND ANO                         3.3         3.8         3.&               4.2                       7.2
MPOPIATZOU GROMI RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.8         2.0               2.4                       1.0
nRasl                              4.9         4.2         3.0               3.0                       3.7
Cluve lantl511  CP  TIOUS)          46.0        43.2        37.0              30.9                      23.4
CIDE OKATV RADl CPU T1355)          16.6        12.9    *     .1        9       .0                       0.9
GROSS hzPROmcTiou RAZ                3.4         3.2         2.0               2.0                       1.3
FAMIILY FLAUSING
ACC5T,. ANIIIL CTIEU)              ..          9.0        32.3 1c
USSJ CZ OFP tURU2D    m            ..          ..         *0.0              43.3
MURE OF 00 NW30. PU CAUITA
(1963-71-100)                      104.0       101.0       *2.0              109.b                     109.1
PU CAPITA SUPU  OF
CALOKMS (Z of  U IIUUNTS)         73.0        89.0       97.0              113.2                     131.5
-,Drms5 (GUS Pn  DAY)             40.0        52.0       30.0               69.                      92.4
or MUCH AVIIL AND PULSE          25.0        27.0        26.0 id           34.2                     34.3
CHILD C*S3  1-4) OWLIN U3t          26.2        17.J         7.0               4.8                       4.7
1in
Lit UPECr. AT BZRT  CTEaaS)         30.7        53.9       62A                04.0                     67.2
INfrNT 3MT. UTZ (CP  T305)         140.0       107.5       76.0               39.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAM MATESt (210)
TOTAL                             12.3 L.    34.0         45.0 /a           35.3                      70.2
uu*                               32.3       77.0        32.07;             76.3                      n9.4
EMRAL                              1.9 7U      7.0        16.07.            44.2                      S7.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF PoPULaTIo)
TOaL                               ..         22.A        25.0  a           306.3                     39.0
0UU                                ..          ..        39.0 7;            73.6                      03.9
RURAL                              ..          ..         &.o W             25.3                      47.0
PO nLTIOU PEr PNsIc               2670.0      2320.0      760.0             1909.7                    1070.0
PW. Pu NURSING Prr50              2300.0 Jf   1300.0      570.0              308.2                     769.3
Pop. 7U WISPITAL MM
TOTAL                            530.0       420.0      X00.0              362.0                     323.3
OREM                             300.0 if   300.0         ..               422.0                     201.9
UAL                                ..       440.0         ..              2716.7                    4519.7
ASSIONS P    OSPITAL                 ..         17.1        ..                27.5                      20.0
MuIm
AVERAGE SI  Of HOUSELD
TOTAL                              5.1 If      3.2
Um                                 ..          ..
W7AL                               ..          ..
AVU*AE NO. Of PUSStaM
TOTAL                              2.5 /f      2.3
UU1*                               2.1 7       1.9
RJlAL                              2.1 77      2.6
PKcZPrA= Of  UIMLIISS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             32.3 /f      ..        43.0
DUA3                               7.s F       ....
8.1133..                           3.3 7.      ..



-24-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A 6 L    3A
ECUADOR                - SOCIAL ZNDUZICTO   DATA SHgm
EcIDADOR                             umnhuuC caouPST CEIGHNTD AVERAES) 
tMOST          9CCOU(MT  UT CSTMATc) lb   -
z,.  i            IroLL Ik              HIM" INtm
I6    19rut-1 CSITlUSfb       LAT. AIIUIICA a CAR tW
ADJWSTD  REmoUWm RATIOS
P A:TOTAL                         63.0        97.')      114.0              106.7                     101.9
MALE                    67.0       99.0        116.0             106.5                     106.2
133UL                   79.0       95.0       112.0              104.6                      97.5
5ECONDART: TOTAL                  12.0        22.0        56.0               44.2                      57.5
VALE                    13.0        21.0       56.0               42.7                      64.9
FEMALE                  10.0       23.0        56.0               44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL CZ o0 SEONDANY)          29.0        11.1        12.3               13.3                      21.0
tIPIL-TEACOIM RATIO
PEDARn                            39.0        36.0        36.0               29.9                      25.1
secwmAxr                          11.0        14.0        15.0               16.7                      19.1
PASSiZUn CARS/BousAW POp             2.1         4.6         6.5 /h            46.0                      54.2
RADIO RECEIERS/noJuM Pop            36.4       239.9       356.8              328.3                     170.7
TV                    POP            0.5        25.6        66.9              112.4                     149.3
NCUSPAM  (DAILY CEREAL
TNIZERE") CTCiAaOna
PEM TUSAND POPMATXU                .51.1       42.6        71.4               81.1                      97.0
CXNDA AnnUAL ATsINDAScA/CAprIA       .           3.8         ..                 2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LAI FORM (TOUS)            1446.0      1688.0      2661.0
FINALE (PUCrZM                    16.3        19.1        22.0               23.6                      36.3
AGrCLTURE (Uc HIIT)               57.4        51.0        51.6 /a            31.A                      40.8
1Dwsr01y (PcUTH)                  19.4        22.2        17.1 7s            24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RAZE (pERCE)
TOTAL                             32.7        32.2        32.4               33.5                      43.1
MMLK                              55.0        52.1        50.5               51.3                      55.1
FZHALZ                            10.6        12.3        14.1               15.9                     31.4
CCONMIC DETUDEC2 RATIO               1.5         1.5         1.5                1.3                      0.9
INCON 9=1310011
PDrcr   or PnATE INWHZ
REMEIED Er
HIES 5X O ROUSrHOLDS               ..          ..
lEGNEST 20X 01 HOUSUOS             ..          ...
LOWEST 200 or OUSEHOLDS            ..          ..
LOES  40S 01 NDU51OLDS             ..          ..          ..
r-.zx TA C t C-
ESTIMAED ALSOLUIE POVERTY  CD301
LEVEL (USS P  CT)
URlmN                              ..          ..        470.0 /a           288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        320.0 7;           165.3
esTIMA   RELAIV  LaVEY 11HC
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
U2 AN                              ..          ..        553.0 /e           519.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        428.07;            359.7
ESTrIMATD POP. DELON ALSOLUE
POVE9T  In   LZVEL tZ)
U                                  ..          ..         40.0 /a
RRAL                               ..          ..         65.0 To-
NOT AVAILALE
mOT APPLICABLE
N oT r Cs
f.  Thb group *vrtges for each indcetoer are populAtion-wegbted &debtetic _ane.  Caverag  of counetrt
_   te  indicator. depends an avaiclablity of data end i not ucifors.
/b    hl_o   ochurtwi* nOted, Data for 1960" refer to en  yer betume 1959 *nd 1961; "Data for 1970" bet,ne
1969 ad 1971; and data for "Meut Rcent Eatlate" betwe   191 and 1983.
/c   1976; Id 1977; t  1980;  /f 1962; j  Percentage Coqiued on the bass of total c-i br of occupied
housang unIte;  h196.
JuE. 1965



-25-                               ANNEX I
Pase 3 of 6
DUFE4llOSOF SOCLIA  NECATOE
NDm Al ohth dlat  daw frm   umagnly judgd te  d        hawi  and   ib.   old o   be nad that they my sl benuum_y
compoble bmuse otte lek od sadadized dention and  n    usNd by di_r  counuie m collcting te data The da ame noanhL useful to
dscmbe ode  of nialnude indiste ummd. ad awetm crtain ymor dilfnas between caunmue
The re , gros e(Iteeuecoun  geoup a te subjet ecotry and (2) a coy iron  ih smews _         *averpcoe a hbe eoiy
goupofthwbjecwtuyeefr-High inlomeOilEpwet ooupwhmiddieecNoetNeedr ria ed MiddleEs-itbrch   bemAsofo
seia.clwrd al ihit). Ia te trnmp dewathe avwa  am popuLatia weghe aithmec rmn for each dentr and ihown only we marity
orthe cou_um in agraoup bee daa for a  icdiiOC. Sinee teovaa ountrie amotS the dicoutom dependeaon theavaibility of da  od is not umfomn
caation mus be caecied ia mting s verag of one indicaor to aaodw er. Th  avee * sae anly useful in copenng the vake ofAe eidator at tae among
the country and  ene roups
AREA (thousand sqkmj                          g                Crud Erth Ra  (pw sheuzaud-Numlber of live births in the year
rtal-Total surface area comprismng  nd area and inLwn watem   per thousad of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Crad Deatk Roe (pier thousaud)-Number of deaths in the year
ii       s    unuie   of agicwultura aea used tmpomry or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
permanently for crops pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  GCe. Rep.gdt  Rate-Average number of daughtas a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         wil bear in her normal reproductive period if she experics
present age-specific etility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at cufrent      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
maket price  calculated by same convemion method as World     &a,   mlaudq-ActNsrs. Amal ftbousid-Annual num-
Bank Atlas I 198143 basisk 1983 data.                         ber of accepors of birth-cntro devic  under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTON PER CAPrrA-Annual apparent                  family pbn   prog .
consumption of commercial primary energy (col and lignite.    ki __ ?leud-IUs= (perce  of m.ieed --)-The pen-
petrolum  natural gs and hydro-. nuclear and geothemal eec-   taw of mrried women of child-bearing ae wbo are practicing or
tricity) in kilogras of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracepion. Womnen
1982 dat                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. altbough for
some countries contaceptive utae is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups
Toan P9p83dae. Mid-Yr  (tho dr)-As of July 1: 190. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMITON
and 19813 data.
hme of Food Prodhction Per Capitafi (1961071 - 100)-Index of per
Urhm  Papaetioa  (pereli of meta)-Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  c.cludes anima feed and seed for agricultur. Food commodities
ability or data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   inlude primary commodities (eg. sug rcane instead of sugar)
PaPalti.. Prejectou                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popruwiat inyear 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  exduded): they comprise cerals root crops. pulscs. oil seeds.
made for each economy seprately. Staring with information on  vegetabes fruits. nuts sugaine and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenational migration in the base year 1980. these prameters  on national aveage producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capit Supply of CuImies (pere  of reikr-eneC -Comput-
Staionary popuiati-n-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period. whil age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comnprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement lvel  tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
inet reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is    exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age stucture is also  food processing. and losses in distibution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The statonary populaton  estimated by FAO based on physiologica needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basts of the projected charactristic of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year U00. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of populaion and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                    w2ste at household leve: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populanon Mamen:zn-ls the tendency for population growth to    PAr Capta Supply of Prote (gram per day)-Protemn content of
continue beyond the time that replacementlevel fertility has beten  per capita net suppiv of food perday. Net supply orfood is defined
adieved: that is. even after the nct reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countres establisbed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grms of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replae-  shoud be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from yearr onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population DC111                                              average for tbe world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960.1970. and 1983 data.                hr Capita Prtein SAly Aimw Aximnd and Pre-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agnculiural und-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pules in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Pepuluie Ase Strctwe (perentt-Children (0-14 years). work-    CAW(at  1-4) Death Rar (pgr dhaemid-Number of deaths of
ing age ( 15-64 yearsL and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing counties data derived
Pepulsdum Groserh Rare (percenrk-t.eal-Annual growth rates of  from life tabls: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
toal mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALIH
P_pulai. Grth Re (rA                 nual growth rates        Lo  Ezp&em y  at Bk (yams)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data-   infant would live if prtvailing paterms of mortaity for all people



-26-                                   ANINEX  I
-26-                                     Page 4  of 6
at e time of or its birth w    to say the mm throughout ib lfe  PupMteather  tindo - pru,,wy. amd secouary-TotaI students en-
1960. 1970nnd 1983 dataL                                      roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers or
I&ir Mwsmy R&v (jer iue)nO-Number of infants who die    teacher in the corresponding IdLe
before aching one year of aep per tbousnd live birt  in a Siven
year. 1960.1970 nd 1983 data.                                  CONSUMPFION
Accent to So  Wow (pwcea  of                    bN, Md         PeSref CdS (per thaa d p.pi-Passcrga ca  comn-
vWdl-Number of people (total, urb   ad ruml) with reasonable   prise motor cs sating les than eght penons excludes ambul-
ac    to safe water supply (icmdes treated surface watrs or    anc  hearses and miita  vehcles.
untreated but uncontaminated wat such as that from protected   RAN  fteceivwr (per thausand ppuhtiu)-AIl types of rivers
bombols. spring and sanitary wedls) as p _ut    of their respec.  for radio broadcsts to general public per thousand of population:
tive popultion. In an urban are a pubic fountin or stndpost    excludes un-licensed rceivers in countries and in years    n
located not mom than 200 mes fom a house may be considedn o
reasbe    onabld    acply       that t ouw    o m    of the    not be comparable since most countnes abolished liceming.
housebold do not h   me to spend a dis ionae par  of the day    rv          (per t MamA ptipolono-TV rceivmrs for broadcast
in       d F inot tbe femily' w toerp a edisproportionac: panofto general public per thousand populatiou; exdudes unliesd TV
in tchinu the faE ily's water nreeds.".                               in countdes and in years when rgstrtion of TV sets was
Access to Ewscm. DitpoSd (piVUU of FPV , dm          ""ain    in effect.
ed amid-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
exre  disposal as pertages of their respective populations.    r"vs"'w C         w (per tho.sandpEpasiom-Shows the aver-
Exreta disposal may indlude the collction and disposal with or  age caulation of -daily general intest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  pcriodical publicaon devoted prinarily to recoding gnerl news.
borne sysms or the use of pit privies and similar instlations.  It is considered to be -daily if it appears at least four times a week.
A,pL   per Pyisih-l1ipulation divided by number of prac-       C- Ad Annl Afeuse per Coos per YK_-Based on the
using physicians qualified from a medical school at uner itp-vl  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Aap.i.per p     V NwnlanPeson-pulation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile unitL
practicing male and female grduate nurses  stnt nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxilaries.                          OR FORCE
_PWW&  per Hopial"d-sA whan ad vI-pbpulation                   Tod Labor Force (hendoft-Economically activc persons. in-
(total, urban. and rual) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds avaiable in pubbicand prvatc. senaand spenaid    students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hositals and rehabilitation centers. Hospita  are establishments  various countrines are not comparabk; 1960.1970 and 1983 datL
permady saffed by at kast one physician. Estahiishments prov-  Fem.r (perceur)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
xiing princpay custodil cam ar not induded. Rural hospitals.    force.
however include bealth and medical centm not permanenl staffed  Apicuhwe (perecer)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nure, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which ofier in-patient accommodato and provide a limited range  data.
of medical fiacilties.                                         Inutry (pecentr)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adudssiom per Hqspita Re-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
ischarges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
OPmaea  J   w                 mete. aemale-Pticpation
-=OUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
A.ae Sw of H        d  (per pr p aeh          _l-   w -n.     as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andfrmzI-A household  nts of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting ag-sx structure orthe population, and
may not be induded in the household for staisticl purpoes.    long time trend. A few estinates are from national sounres.
APeraxe Nmuber of PersA per Reom--etelm, .., ..d nwaV-         Economic Depen&ucy Xatio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in aU urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent strctures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Per     e arDwe      withEefcr-wa          mn, andmal-        hreeage of Totd Dposablncom  lieu ai cask md kiind)-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rual dweUlings respectivdy.           hold incomt.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A,sed Efi        pRins                                        The rollowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
A'mary scwool - total. mak and feale-Grm totaL nal and         kvdls. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
ferma enrolmtn of al ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  Estnaed Absohiue Awerty Incme Led  USI per cqap&&or-ma
respectiv pruiary school-age populations. While many countries  and rwW-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yeas others do not. The  below which a mninimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios giveL F-or some countries with universal  Esdmti Relatie Poperty lcewe Leve (USf per cypita-or_an
education, gross enrolment  may ecceed 100 percet since some     d rort-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard prinary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban keve is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. m    and femala-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at lest four years of approved pri-  Enb..tnd Popuetie Belw Absole Pbert Inmw Level fper-
mary instrucon provis genraL vocationaL or teacher training    cet )-t rbmn and nwel- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc: cormspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are genrlly excludied
Vaonal E      rolbn (percmt of sconeVy)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tons include tachnicaL industrial, or other progamms which oprat      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as depments of secondary istituions                                    June 1985



- 27-
ininz   IDEC         D                                   5 of 6
Pbpalatik: L4 (tdd 19K, wi1m)
Q- Per Capita: USllU15.8 (194)
Amcuot        kAip  Am   Xuai  (2)   Own of UV at Vlgwt Priem CZ)
uad;a                                          0dlLm US at       (at ciat_t 1975 Kim)
oAlet Prift
1964          1960-70 197040  198044       1970    1975      1960     1984
Cair Dmtic Pbdoct ./                        10,167.0             5.       9.1      0.9    1.0   1N0.0    100.0    100.0
Apiadle                                     1,373.6            4.0      2.8    -0.2       23.9    17.9    12.1    13.5
1Istry S Hini                               4.1358             7.3      12.2     4.3     19.7    27.6    29.8    40.9
Senima                                     4.553.7             6.3      9.1      0.1     56.3    51.5      S.0    44.8
CQaqmdm                                      7,600.9             5.0      6.7      0.0     66.4    79.7    74.1    74.8
cam    _UBt                                  1.997.1            18.7     U.0   -10.5       18L2     26.7    26.1    19.6
swat  of GUS                                 2,661.0             2.7     12.2      3.7     16.9    28.0       4.4    21.1
ZIqmt of GUS                                 2,292.0            10.9     10.9   -11.8      21.5    30.0    25.7    22.5
am  latm  Sar                                1,785.1             anm.    13.7     n  .     12A      19.0     21.4    17.6
Qqodtim of Ikrdime 1Mmdu C
(at        prim)       Rac
19B0    19B1     1982     1903     1984
-AUI   ERGS                                                      100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100O
PiY                                                             72.5    79.3    82.5    90.2    79.9
Cn3de Patwisaz                                                 54.8    61.3     59.3    69.5    66.2
Others                                                       17.7    18.0      23.2    20.7    13.7
_ufatbwes                                                       27.5    20.7      17.5      9.8     2.1
Pttol  Driatiwve                                               7.5      6.5      5.8      4.5      5.8
Proai CoW.                                                     7.1      4.0      2.4      1.1      LI
Fiab ad Smfood                                                 2.9      2.1      5.7      1.1      8.9
Othes                                                          10.0    Sl        3.6      3.1      4.3
-NAI    5I D                                                     1O.O   1OD0    100.0   1W.O    10.o
Food                                                             6.7      5.8      5.5      8.5      6.8
PetIol..                                                         8.9      9.6     10.1    18.3      18.0
Ihciiny -d ft10                                                 36.1     3L5      32.5     246.9    27.6
Ot.2r                                                           48.3    46.1      51.9    48.3    47.6
PMC AIS WM O U4I (1975-I00)
GO Deflator                                                     198.7   227.2    267.0    374.9    411.6
BMte (am:r.e pr dollAr)                                 25.0    25.0    30.0    44.1    62.5
pact Pice Wd                                                  239.5   239.4   236.1    22A7    213.8
imrt Price 7                                                    164.2    152.5   154.1    153.7    157.8
Tar  of  me 7-uz                                                145.9   157.0    1532    148.    135.5
As a Z of GE'
1975    1980     1983
PIUC FueM
c       Ream ..                                                          25.2    27.7      26.3
Ow.t apwinzu.                                                            2A.0     22.2      D.8
SaPa (  or Deficit (                                                     -3.4    -4.6    -1.4
Capitol bpaib=                                                            L5      10.1      6.9
Fo1bep hinCig                                                             1.4      5.4      0.8
1960-70  1970-80  1900-.  L195-90
GO  Grouch Rate (2)                                                       5.8      9.1      0.9      2.8
GUP 1  Capita tCrotb DAta                                                 2.4      6.5    -1.6       03
3W M rtim. Caosth Race (C) b/                                             8.5     LL36     n.a.      n.e.
mm                                                                        0.7      3.0    16.0       6.0
11plozhol    arga                                                       -OA       0.2     n.a.      0.2
repot Elasticity                                                          1.9      0.3     D.a.      0.3
n.a.- hftni not c aviLabe.
a/ - QapEu      e eam mad at fwtw cost and do ot add up becam  tbey wcbi, lized t e
bh - 71gw. am  for 156-7 a  L9744L  torte: 164 lbrd Dmlc_t  pwrt.                                         6/21/85



-26-
l~~~~~ I
hp 60of6
tur   mussEt un a,   
(ml.U  ase pyha)
ftpaIadez  8.4 (md 136. Sl111)
or Vs Cqdapis 0091113. (136
ACDAI         btiold           huDJni
lit taaut of        wArc                       471.3 -1OMA  -123.    -13.0   -339.0  -31.0   -311.0  -600.0
1pt   ci tof   6 &wd.                        2,973A  3,00U  2,731.0  2A,       3.2.0  3,06LO  3,37.0  3.70LD
lqaft.ofi am&   lade.                        3644 4,06.  3,53.0  2,6A   3,8.   3o0  3,.A   4.0.0
Not tnula                                         0.0      UA    3L0      2.0    3I.0       20.0     3.0      4.0
O0M   Acn tIm.c                                -6471.  -166A  -119      -101.0  -501A     -30    -231.0   -60O
DAn  Pisea tib sat                               70O    600    40.0    50.0       3.0    10.       12.0    MG00
ofua lt Aid                                      30.2      1        0        0        0 o     C       0L0      rO
Di IMMS (At)                                     73J    938  -3.           1L6    104.0    15.0    2.    400.0
ficideal                                       23.3   419.3  -1.2        39.0    n.m    -10.0    173.    100.0
Mis                                            479.3   51.3  -140.0    177.6    U..       25.0    30A 0       O.O
mber  a                                         169.1   -M1   957.3    -e          in...     MnO    -WA    -
CsA in  ldE    l  e w d (-cc.m)                -33.3       t9  460.   -12I.       400    13L.0    -4.0    40.0
Crie   atial Mikdald.n!as                     1S47    12L7   459.8   61.          716L    60.4      MA    39.0
dai.ikl lrs , mmud)                               4.      LS      1.4      3.5      L2       L9       L7       L3
- eb ci Iqn
Mmmlig        i      leu.
own  0l        s Of t Elam                      97L9 1.452.    27.2    27.9    30.5
-     1a                                        YJ14.7    2.5    15.I    3.8     77.0
minI                                           3.7     L5      1.7      3.4      7.9
ML                                            -  LS -  -  -
--b ttiisnl                                   llD.0    26.    13.7    17.       69.1
_a_mlm l                                       950.2 L-11    31.8    25LI    31L5
-iLd.! 2a         aSin                       306   676J  D.7    1312    1.
ND    -                                       31.0    AA    4.2    47.2    6h7
O:ba  tmiS l                                  46.3    47.7   72.5    26.3        5.1
*m                                           627.3   6560    M9A       43       374
labt Ontmxl  Sd  WlS                           3,319 04 L   3,919.0  6269  6.6MA
OffirdI                                      1,3310 1,739.2 1,5L9  1,731.0  1.68
1011.   L13.3  173.6   201.0    27.3
21                                            36.3    2.5    362       33.      33.
CM  ieldl                                 1 ,3  1.3531   1,331   1,92  161iu1
Clb                                          1,977.8 2,46.3 2DL31  4,337.9  4.7ML6
lShi_b  -*                                     1,00l.7   8179.6  .013.1  1,4013  1,0A.
--
Ina a" SIe                      56   921.9 1,10L.6    N3.8    991.4
leat                                           3.5   4412    L61    372A    79.7
Aoxtionti                                      2701   4L7 539.5   157.2    201.7
law!t      - * a Ico   a                          8L7    39.    40.3    19.7    30.7
-        .-
mm    mMAl 1lD                                    3.3     3.6    4.        3.2      3.7
Dd ais mm   tol pm d           _beaa          3.5     3.8    14.9    174       1.1
M  dibt saylmotia d       abt                     3.3     2.5    2.9       6.6      4.0
Mlkm 1. D                                         L1      0.9    0.9       0.6      0.5
MLdideunhmmtatl usc diMbmure                   -         U.  -    -    -
ML die   ralWtAl dtt made                         0.2     0.1     LI       0.1    0l1
- .-t  n sImm.



LUEKI II
-29-                       Page i of 2
THl STATUS OP &ANK Q OIUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.  STATEMN  O    N  LOANS AND IDA CRIDIT  (S  of Septiber 30, 1985)  1/
--US$ million--
Amount
Loan or                                                   (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
20 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                  250.8  37.5      -
1429      1977      Ecuador      Highways                17.5   -        5.1
1459      1977      Ecuador      Agriculture             15.5   -        1.8
S006      1978      Ecuador      Technical
Assistance             11.0   -        0.2
1644      1978      Ecuador     Rural Development        18.0   -       14.5
1776      1980      Ecuador     Guayaquil Urban
Development            31.0   -       24.5
1882      1980      Ecuador     Highways                 55.0   -       35.4
1991      1981      Ecuador     Rural Development        20.0   -       18.0
2044      1982      Ecuador     Rural Development        17.0   -       15.2
2096      1982      Ecuador      DFC                     60.0   -        4.5
2135      1982      Ecuador      Housing                 35.7   -       30.3
2171      1982      Ecuador      Education               16.0   -       14.8
2221      1983      Ecuador      Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit           40.6    -       6.0
2516 2/   1985      Ecuador      Public Sector Manage-
ment                    8.0            8.0
Total                                      596.1  37.5
of which has been repaid                 159.3   2.6
Total now outstanding                      436.8  34.9
Amount sold                      3.2
of which has been repaid       3.2         -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             436.8  34.9
Total undisbursed                                         178.3
/ A US$100 million Agriculture Sector Loan was approved by the Bank
October 22, 1985.
2/ Noc yet effective.



-30-
1331 11
Page 2 of 2
B.   STATDENT 0F IVC INVSISS (s of September 30, 1985)
Type of      (amount in USS million)
Fiscal Year                                 Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.        Textiles      3.7       0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982      S.A. (COFIEC)               DFC           -         0.5      0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0         -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984           Cemento Nacional (CEM)       Cement       12.0       1.0     13.0
1980          Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/        Pulp and
Paper        3.3      1.0       4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                        Mining        1.0      0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                   25.0       3.0     28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     19.6       1.7     21.3
Total commitments now held by IFC          5.4       1.3      6.7
Total undisbursed                          -        -         -
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
EcnaR
INDUSTRIAL PEhNCK PROJECT
SUPMUEEWAZY PROJECT DATASHE
Section I - Timetaole of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare project: three months
(b) Project prepared by: Central Bank, Ministry of Industry and Com-
merce, Ministry of Finance, and Financieras with assistance from
Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1985
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 30, 1985
(e) Completion of Negotiations: January 22, 1986.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Terms of Reference for technical assistance components were drafted
with the help of Bank staff during project preparation.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Subloans would carry a variable interest rate (para. 64);
(b) The Government would maintain interest rates on all loans to the
industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels
which were positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987,
were also adequate relative to deposit rates, as measured by cri-
teria agreed with the Bank. The Government would review with the
Bank the adequacy of the level of lending interest rates at least
semi-annually, beginning October 1, 1986. It would also review
semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial
resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed with the
Bank. The adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these
occasions. If, during any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the
levels of lending interest rates, spreads, or domestic financial
resource mobilization were inadequate, and the Government and the
Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this, then the Bank would
have the right to withhold financing of fresh subloan commitments
under the proposed loan (para. 66);



-32-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Financial intermediaries would have to continue to meet agreed
eligibility criteria tailored to improve their individual finan-
cial conditions in order to have access to loan resources. In
order to encourage their increased capitalization, for each US
dollar equivalent increase in their equity after January 1, 1985,
intermediaries would have access to US$9 equivalent from the loan
to finance subprojects. However, no single intermediary could
commit more that 50 percent of the loan amount available for sub-
lending under the project (para. 57); and
(d) A special plan of action to strengthen CFN financially and insti-
tutionally would be maintained in effect as a condition of CFN's
participation in the project (para. 60).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page  of 2
IMDUMTZAL FIAANCR 330CW
sADC -  KDUSUAL SCfl   -               -
ellc r Ara                              Medium-res Objectives                                   Remet  ete Ta
A. Export Incentives                Ajustment of exchange rate to maintain real level        Multiple official exchange rates formally
cnd unification of exchange rates,                      unified November 1985; exchange rate adjusted
to maintain real level January 1986.
B. Industrial Incentives            Streamlining of induatrial incentive, to encourage       Now reguLations for Industrial Incentive Law
anufacturing exporta, more extensive use of              Issued in January 1985 to ti) grant tax bene-
domestic resources and a better use of installed         fita baseo on export performnce: (ii) reduce
industrial capacity.                                    income tax exonerations for sectors with
excess capacity; and (iii) provide for p.o-
gresaive reduction and time linitation on
tariff exonerationa for raw materials and
intermediate products.
C. Import Reatrictio-s              Elimination of distortions in the allocation of          I* Removal in Mnrch 1985 of the import pro-
resources caused by quantitative restrictions.              hibitions introduced in 1982.
2* Remoal of about 20 percent of the
remaning import prohibitions in January
1986.
3. Lifting of import licenaing requirements
for about 50 industrial inputs in
February 1986.
D. Tariff Reform                    Reduction of tariff levels on manufactured pro-          A revised import tariEf structure has been
ducts which encouraged production for the domestic      adopted.  It reduces Import tariff peaks
market and attracted resources to manufactu-ing.        from a maxima of 220 percent to 100 percent
thereby discridmnating against agriculture and          (except for a few items) *and reduces tariff
discouraging exports. Reduction of tariff diaper-       dispersion so that over 75 percent of commo-
sion which discriminated against many types of          ditiem  have tariffs of 70 percent or les.
mnufacturing activities hindering efficient             Average tariffs and tariff dispersion have
resource allocation,                                    been reduced by about 30 percent and 50 per-
cent. respectively.



Ii         8          1111
11|11i 1       '1;5    ['i;ul 111 11   1  1 1 I






