Dammenz af
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5874-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
March 3, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ollicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be eisclosed without World Bank authorization.



ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/.)
October 1985             December 1985       February 1986
tAverage Multiple Rates)      (Unified Rate)      (Unified rate)
US$1   = S/.82               = S/.97             = S/.110
S/.1   = USS0.01             = USS0.01           = US$.009
S/.100 = US$12.19            = US$10.30          = US$9.09
Fiscal Year
January I to December 31
Abbreviations
BCE      Banco Central del Ecuador (Central Bank of Ecuador)
iIEDE    Banco Ecuatoriauio de Desarrollo (Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BEV      Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BNF      Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CD       Certificate of Deposit
CENAPIA  Centro Nacional para la Promocion de la Pequena Industria y
la Artesania (National CenLer for Promotion of SSEs and
Artisans)
CFN      Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
DFC      Development Finance Company
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FOPINAR  Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y la Artesania
(Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans)
FOPEX    Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Development Fund)
INSOTEC  Instituto de Investigaciones Socio-Economicas y
Tecnologicas (Institute for Social, Economic, and Technological
Research)
MFF      rlecanismo de Fondos Financieros del BCE (BCE's Financial Fund)
MICEI    Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion (Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Integration)
SECAP    Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional (Ecuadorian
Professional Training Service)
SSEs     Small Scale Enterprises
TA       Technical Assistance



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sulmmarye ...........................0........   iii
I.  THE ECONOMIC S E T T I N G 1....... . ....................... 
A.  Backgrounda     ...       ...................    1
B.  Outlook     uelook..   ..... .           .............   1
II.  THE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS............O......    3
A.  The Manufacturing Sector...t...........................   3
Structure and Growth of Manufacturing.................   3
Industrial Policy Frame aork............. .............   4
Unification of the Foreign Exchange Market............   5
Regulations of the Industrial Incentive Law                    5
Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions.............    6
Revised Tariff Structure . ........................   6
B.  The Financial Sector      e      c       t      or.... ......................    7
Institutional Structure and Development.........               7
Main Insiuinst....................                          7
Developments ..........        .......................   7
Interest Rate Policy and Resource Mobilization........   8
Performance.... .................. .   8
Government Action     c       t      ln.. .. ...............    8
Further Action Required.....................   9
Recent Legal Reformseo.... .....9...............    9
C. Past Bank Lending and Strategy in Industrial and
Financial Sectorse...        .    .     ..................   9
III.  THE PROJECT...........................  11
A.  Project Objectives and Description....................  11
Background...                            .          . .   11
Project Objectives.je                         .....   11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador in June/July 1985. The mission comprised Mr. Howard Jones,
Mr. Mario Reyes, Ms. Ines Garcia-Thoumi of the Industrial Development and
Finance Division 1, LAC Regional Office, and Ms. Raundi Halvorson
(Consultant).
Ths document has a rested distribution and may be uswed by recipients only in the performance
Lof their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disckosd without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Project Description  ****................ . . . . . *. ........*.   11
B. Participating Institutions......... .....................   12
Private Flnancieras ................ .......... mess.... a.  12
Eligibility                         Crtra.......................12
Corporacion Financiera Nacional.........................   13
..................... **...... ..........................   14
C. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements...............   14
Project Costs and Financing.............................   14
Loan, Subsidiary Loan and Subloan Terms .................   15
Subproject Review.......................................    16
Procut......   17
Disbursemeats...................o............ ............   17
D. Project Benefits and Risks..............................   18
Benefits ................ ............... .............. . 18
-?'ska...........  S S~ Se.ee.S     S.e...ee   ...e  S..e.  .......... 18
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ................*..............   20
List of Annexes
Annex 1   Average Tariffs and Dispersion-Current and Proposed.....   22
Annex 2   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance.............   23
Annex 3    Financial Condition of Financieras (DFCs)G............      29
Annex 4    Calculation of Real Return on Equity with a Nominal 4,
41 and 5Z p.a. Financial Spread Compounded Quarterly....   43
Annex 5   Project Cost and Financ'-g Pl                 a      n       44
Annex 6    Findings From Survey of Subloans - Fifth Development
Banking Project (Loan 2096-EC)9.....                        45
Annex 7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursementse..e.s...e.e.e.e..es  54
Annex 8    Trade and Industrial Sector Policy Reforms...orms.......   55
Annex 9    Bank Monitoring of Project Implementation..tation8286606  57
Annex 10   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ...   59
Annex 11   Schedule of Project Implementation......................   60
Map of Ecuador



- iii -
EOJADOR
INDSTRIA cFINANCE PROJECT
LWAN AND PRECT SUMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Ecuador
Beneflciaries:    Part A:  The Government of Ecuador, which will receive
foreign exchange to finance essential imports.
Part B: Private Ecuadorian manufacturing or agroindustrial
enterprises; the Central Bank (BCE); the Superinten-
dency of Banks; the Superintendency of Companies; and
financial intermediaries.
Ahmut:            US$115 million equivalent.
Term:             Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate and charges.
Relending Terms: The Borrower, through its agent, BCE, would onlend US$64.45
million equivalent in sucres from Part B of the loan to
eligible financial intermediaries at variable positive real
interest rates. Financial intermediaries would onlend these
resources to project beneficiaries at the rates established
from time to time by the Monetary Board. The intermediaries
would receive a spread initially of 5% p.a. and BCE would
retain a 0.25% fee. The revenues from the difference between
the Bank's lending rate plus BCE's fee, and the interest rates
charged to financial intermediaries, would be used by BCE, as
agent, to cover the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan;
however, any shortfall would be made up by the Government,
which would assume the foreign exchange risk and pay the
commitment fee on the Bank loan. US$0.2 million equivalent
from the proposed loan would be made available to the
Superintendency of Banks, and US$0.2 million to the
Superintendency of Companies on terms similar to those for
subloans. US$.05 million would be lent to the Association of
Development Banks on commercial terms. US$0.1 million would
be made available to BCE as a grant.
Project           The objectives of the project would be to encourage trade,
Description:      industrial, and financial policy reforms; promote efficient
industrial development; and strengthen regulatory agencies and
the analytical capabilities of financial intermediaries. To



- iv -
achieve these objectives, the loan would provide (i) US$50
million equivalent to finance essential imports in support of
a series of measures to liberalize trade, industrial, and
financial sector policies; (ii) US$64.45 million equivalent to
financial intermediaries for onlending to industrial enter-
prises to finance fixed assets and permanent working capital;
and (iii) US$550,000 to finance programs of technical assist-
ance to strengthen the analytical capabilities of the Central
Bank and the financial intermediaries, and the regulatory
capabilities o, the Superintendencies of Banks and Companies.
Benefits:          The project would support recent far-reaching industrial,
trade, and financial sector policy reforms which would begin
to reorient fundamentally Ecuador's model of industrial
development and strengthen the capacity of the financial
system to mobilize and allocate domestic resources more
effectively. It would also promote development of efficient
industrial enterprises. About 90 investment projects creating
about 3,400 new jobs would be financed. Further benefits
would result from the associated dialogue with the Government
on resource mobilization, interest rates, and industrial
policies.
R4isks:            The major risks facing the macroeconomic reforms which the
project would support relate to their political sustainability
and the maintenance of an attractive exchange rate for export
promotion. At the institutional level, some financial inter-
mediaries are in a weakened financial condition resulting from
the economic difficulties of recent years. In order for these
institutions to be eligible to use loan resources, they would
have to meet eligibiliEy criteria designed to strengthen their
financial structures and performance. To the extent that some
of these institutions cannot participate, commitment of Bank
funds could be delayed. Moreover, some participating finan-
cial intermediaries may again experience financial difficul-
ties which could delay subloan repayments. Technical assist-
ance included in the project to strengthen regulatory agencies
should limit this risk. Also, depending upon the rate of eco-
nomic recovery in Ecuador and the potential short-term impact
of import liberalization and interest rate reforms, demand for
project resources for the credit component could slacken.
However, even if loan disbursements slowed somewhat, project
benefits arising from individual subprojects and the technical
assistance programs should still be realized.



Estimated Costs
Local   Forelgn   Total
(USS million)
Estimted Costs:
Part A
Imports LI                                     50.00    50.00
Part B
Investment Projects                   33.00    69.34   102.34
Technical Assistance                   0.11     0.55      0.66
Total Project Costs 2/                  33.11   119.89   153.00
Financing PLan:
Bank                                     -      115.00   115.00
Financial Interme-
diaries                                 -        4.89      4.89
Project Beneficiaries                   33.00     -        33.00
BCE, Superintendency of
Banks, Superintendency
of Companies, financial
intermediaries                          0.i1     -         0.11
33.11   119.89   153.00
Estimated Disbursements:
1987   1988    1989   1990   1991   1992    1993
-----(USS millions by Bank Fiscal Year)-----
Annual       51.3   10.4    16.3   16.9   11.0    6.5        2.6
Cumulative   51.3   61.7    78.0   94.9  105.9  112.4   115.0
Rate of Return:   The minimum rate for subprojects would be 122.
1/ The USS50 million included in this project represents about 2.5 percent
of Ecuador's projected 1986 imports. The Bank and the Government are
beginning discussions which could lead to cofinancing being sought in
the context of this project.
2/ The tax content of the project would be approximately USS9.2 million
(9% percent of the cost of investments).



EUDOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
InUSTRIAL FIACE PRnFECT
I. TEE ECOImWIC SETTD Ii1/
A.         d
1.01      Since the 1960s, the Ecuadorian economy has changed from a
predominantly agricultural to a predominantly urban society. From 1972 to
1980, the transformation of the economy occurred under the stimulus of
growing petroleum exports and, to a lesser extent, the growth of the
industrial sector. In that period, real GDP grew at an average rate of about
5Z p.a. and per capita income in 1983 prices (Atlas Methodology) rose from
US$1,190 to US$1,420.
1.02      In 1981, however, the Ecuadorian economy's fragility became evident
when the terms of trade for Ecuador deteriorated for the first time since
1974. GDP growth slowed considerably to 3.9% p.a., private investments
declined by 11.6% and signs of capital flight appeared. GDP growth slowed
further to 1.8% in 1982 and turned negative to -3.3% in 1983. Investment
continued to decline and unemployment to accelerate. By the end of 1983
Ecuador was facing, as were most Latin American countries, one of the worst
economic contractions since the Great Depression. Nevertheless, Ecuador
complied with an IMF-supported adjustment program and avoided possibly an
even worse income drop.
1.03      In 1984, Ecuador started to emerge from the recession mainly as a
result o' increased oil exports and the recovery of agricultural production,
which had decreased by 14% the previous year as a result of severe floods.
Other sectors, however, still faced constraints: a contracted international
demand for non-oil exports; reduced availability of imported raw materials;
low local demand for manufactured goods; minimal new foreign lending; and
depressed prices for oil, Ecuador's main export. Nevertheless, in 1984, real
GDP increased by 3.4%, reversing the negative trend of the three preceding
years.
B. Outlook
1.04      The present Administration which took office in August 1984, is the
second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of military
rule. The Government's economic philosophy essentially supports the market
as an efficient resour-e allocation mechanism, with minimal Government
intervention in economic affairs. It sees the longer-run development of
1/ This section is based on the report: Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery
and Sustained Growth- - a World Bank Country Study, Report No. 5094-EC of
October 5, 1984.



-2-
Ecuador supported by vigorous, export-oriented agricultural and industrial
growth, and recognizes the strategic importance of relative prices, including
exchange and interest rates and import tariffs. The Government is also
committed to strengthening private sector development, curtailing the role of
public investment in activities which could be privatized, encouraging
foreign investment, and Improving the efficiency of public investment and
operations.
1.05      Since coming to office, the Administration has taken a number of
important and politically difficult corrective measures: it has devalued the
sucre again and unified the multiple exchange rate markets; it raised
domestic petroleum pro-'ucts prices; it improved the interest rate structure;
it successfully obtained a multi-rear rescheduling of its external debt; it
took steps to liberalize trade; and it moved to free prices in the
agricultural sector. It also mounted a campaign to attract foreign
investment and subscribed to several investment guarantee schemes, incltuding
MIGA.   These are important measures in the right direction; they should
encourage more efficient utilization of resources and stimulate exports,
agricultural production and domestic savings and encourage foreign
investment.
1.06      Because of the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years,
which have raised the price of oil in sucre terms, oil exports amounted t..
18% of GDP in 1985. Virtually all oil income accrues to the public sector.
Despite the recent sharp drop in oil prices, the oil sector will continue to
he essential to the economy. Adjustment to the loss of income (estimated to
he close to half a billion dollars in 1986) will require faster shifts to
non-oil sources of exports and fiscal revenues over the medium term.
However, in the short run, oil still represents over half of current
exports. Restricted fiscal revenues will require tightening of already
frugal fiscal policies. An adequate flow of resources to the private sector
from both domestic and foreign sources will he essential to support further
recovery from the recent recession. Indeed, a public sector surplus mav well
he required to ensure that the private sector can expand its activities.
This delicate halance between public and private sector needs underscores the
importance of good public sector management. The Rank's recent public
investment review found Ecuador's ongoing program generallv a sound one, hut
recommended that petroleum exploration and producrion he accelerated, and
that no sizeable new projects be hegun for a few years; an updatt of the
program reflecting reduced foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues will
be needed.
1.07      Ecutador will almost surely continue facing a shortage of foreign
exchange in the next few vears, given recent oil price declines. The Bank's
most recent economic projections were made on a higher oil price expectation,
and were consistent with both the Government's and the IMF's programs. The
rovernment, along with both the Rank and the IMF, is now reviewing Ecuador's
revised prospects. Tn view of the far-reaching economic effects of the most
recent drop in oil prices, both the Bank and the IMF have scheduled economic
missions to Ecuadur for Februarv-March 1Q86,to undertake further analysis.
Nevertheless, It is already clear that Ecuador must likely quicken and deepen
fts adiustment Program, while marshalling further external funds to assist
its response to the oil price drops. Hence, the Government, the Bank, and
the TMF are discuissing with Ecuador's commercial creditors the possibilitv of
further financing.  Because of Ecuador's determined efforts to adjust its
economyW--and its creditors' positive responses so far--we believe Ecuadur
remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



-3-
II. TEE N&UANUACTJRIMG AND FINANCIA SECTORS
A. The Manufacturing Sector
2.01      In recent years the Bank has been associated with extensive
industrial and financial sector work in Ecuador. This has included (i) a
1982 study of ways to reduce overall effective protection in the industrial
sector; (ii) a study undertaken under the Fifth Development Banking Project
(Loan No. 2096-EC) of the industrial incentives system; (iii) a recently
concluded Bank review of the financial sector; and (iv) recent discussions
with the Government on trade, industrial, and financial policies. As a
result of these efforts, an understanding of the major policy issues
affecting the industrial and financial sectors has been obtained and
discussed with the Government. This has formed the basis for measures which
have or are to be taken on trade and financial sector reforms, some of the
most important of which are being supported by the proposed loan.
Structure and Growtb of Manufacturing
2.02      Manufacturing remains at an early stage of development.  Activities
such as food processing, textiles and wood processing still account for about
three-quarters of manufacturing value added. Most production is sold in the
domestic market and is highly dependent upon imported inputs. The sector has
accounted for about 18% of GDP in recent years, and in 1983 employed about
320,000 workers (11% of the work force). During the economic expansion
experienced from 1972 to 1982, manufacturing was Ecuador's leading growth
sector, expanding at an average annual real rate of 9.5%. However, the
growth of manufacturing value added, fell from 6.9% in 1982 to a negative
1.9% in 1983, reflecting the impact of economic recession, severe shortages
of raw materials resulting from import restrictions and poor weather
conditions, and the lack of foreign as well as domestic credit. As the
economic recession continued, manufacturing value added continued to decline
by about 2.0% in 1984. Preliminary estimates for 1985, however, indicate
that manufacturing activities grew at a rate of about 2.5%. As a result, it
is expected that capacity utilization (which averaged about 65% in 1984) as
well as investment in fixed assets will increase. The manufacturing sector's
contribution to exports has been minimal during the past decade. Excluding
processed foodstuffs, shrimp, and fuel oil, manufactured exports never
amounted to even 5% of total exports (or 15% of non-petroleum exports). This
situation, which is largely due to the anti-export bias of the import
substituting policies adopted by the country, has worsened since 1983, owing
to the closure of the Andean Market--Ecuador's major market for manufactured
exports--and Ecuador's failure to penetrate new ones.
2.03      More than 80% of manufacturing employment and of manufacturir.,
value added is generated by firms located in Guayaquil and Quito. Firms in
the Guayaquil area account for the major shares of food, paper, and chemical
industries, while firms in the Quito area concentrate on textiles, wood
products, metal products, machinery and equipment. Lack of appropriate



- 4 -
infrastructure for industrial development in the rest of the country has
apparently prevented a wider geographical location of industry, offsetting
the impact of Government incentives aimed at encouraging industrial growth
away from the country's traditional growth centers.
2.04      Manufacturing industry is also characterized by a small, modern
oligopolistic segment of import substituting industries that has been super-
imposed on a largely traditional sector where small firms prevail. In most
industries less than four firms control between 50 and 95% of the domestic
market. This structure is largely the result of the administration and
implementation of the Industrial Incentive Law, which induced investors to
over-dimension their plants as a way to prevent the entry of competitors,
since the existence of idle installed capacity could prevent the granting of
incentives to new firms. To help remedy this and other problems, new regu-
lations were issued by the current Administration in January 1985 (para.
2.10).
2.05      Prospects for sustained manufacturing output growth are dim if they
continue to depend entirely upon the expansion of domestic demand. The
current efforts of the Government to overcome the recent balance of payments
crisis and inflation call for a restrictive domestic credit policy, which in
turn will reduce the impact of domestic demand expansion as a source of
growth in the short term. Export expansion and more efficient import substi-
tution would have to provide the basis for new sources of growth. Thus,
industrial prospects will depend on the speed with which past policies can be
reformulated to assure the increased efficiency of industry and com'etitive-
ness of manufacturing exports.
Industrial Policy Framework
2.06      Current industrial incentives were established by the 1957 Law of
industrial Incentives; they are also influenced by trade and foreign exchange
policies. The core of the law emphasizes the development of import-
substitution industries. Trade policies have provided high tariffs for final
consumer goods and low tariffs for raw materials, intermediate, and capital
goods. Protection from imports has also been provided through numerous quan-
titative restrictions, import prohibitions and prior authorizations for
imports. This policy framework, and, until 1982, the fixed exchange rate for
inputs and machinery imports, provided high effective protection to domestic
industry, encouraged capital-intensive industries, and hindered the develop-
ment of export-oriented activities. Thus, the high levels of protection
granted to industry encouraged the establishment of enterprises that do not
take advantage of the country's natural resource endowment and that are
economically inefficient. Recent World Bank estimates indicate that the cost
to the country cf creating one job in the protected electric appliances and
plumbing fixtures subsectors may be as high as five times the comparable cost
to the country of creating one job in export activities, such as plywood
production. These estimates -which indicate that for every job created mak-
ing electrical appliances, four workers remained potentially unemployed--
illustrate the burden imposed upon Ecuador's work force by high protection.



- 5 -
2.07      The Administration, however, has begun formulating a new industrial
development strategy aimed at fostering export expansion, more efficient
import substitution, and more intensive use of domestic resources. Accord-
ingly, important positive policy decisions have been taken in the areas of
industrial and trade policies and some major measures already have been
implemented. It is one of the objectives of the proposed project to provide
resources to support the Government in dealing with the impact of these
measures on the economy. The Government's program is described in the fol-
lowing paragraphs.
Unification of the Foreign Exchange Market
2.08      Between 1970 and early 1980, the official exchange rate appreciated
by 40-48%. This combined with the multiple exchlange rate system which
prevailed during that period introduced major distortions in the allocation
of industrial resources, sy.tematically reducing the competitiveness of
Ecuadorian exports and encouraging the development of inefficient import-
substitution industries. Until September 1984, when all non-oil exports and
most imports were transferred from the official foreign exchange market
(where the rate of exchange was 67 sucres/USS) to the 'intervened" foreign
exchange market (where the rate was 97 sucres/USS) manufactured exports were
discriminated against, as only limited access to the higher "intervened" rate
was permitted for export earnings. Import substituting industries however,
not only benefitted from high protection granted through quantitative res-
trictions, but also from access to the official rate to pay for imports of
inputs and machinery, and from the additional protection granted by the
premium on foreign exchange in the "intervened market.
2.09      The unification of the official and "intervened' foreign exchange
markets, formally completed in November 1985, represents a major step in
eliminating these basic distortions hindering a healthier industrial sector.
Regulations of the Industrial Incentive Law
2.10      In an effort to streamline industrial incentives and encourage
manufacLuring exports, more intensive use of domestic resources and better
use of installed capacity, new regulations for the Industrial Incentive Law
were issued in January 1985. Major reforms included: (i) granting of tax
benefits based on export performance; (ii) reductions of income tax exonera-
tions, especially for sectors with excess capacity, thereby eliminating a
major inducement for the current oligopolistic structure of the manufacturing
sector; (iii) introduction of progressive reduction and time limitations on
tariff exonerations for raw materials and intermediate products; a maximum
period of 4 years for existing enterprises, and of 10 years for new enter-
prises, has been established. Under previous regulations, no reductions in
tariff exonerations over time were required and, although the maximum period
for obtaining benefits from the Industrial Incentive Law was 15 years, in
practice, enterprises benefitted for indefinite periods, as these benefits
were renewed automatically upon their expiration.



- 6 -
Elimoation of Quantitative Restrictions
2.11      In order to eliminate basic distortions in the allocation of
resources caused by quantitative restrictions, the Government has begun
substituting tariffs for such restrictions.  The first step was completed in
March 1985, when import prohibitions that had been introduced in 1982, and
which amounted to about 16% of 1981 imports, were eliminated. The Government
is planning to remove the remaining import prohibitions and replace them with
tariffs. The first step, which removed about 20% of the remaining import
prohibitions, was implemented in January 1986. Furthermore, the Government
has begun to reduce the number of industrial inputs subject to prior
authorization for import, by lifting import licensing requirements for about
50 items in February 1986.
Revised Tariff Structure
2.12      Until recently, major characteristics of the import tariff
structure were: high dispersion, which discriminated against many types of
manufacturing activities, thereby hindering efficient resource allocation;
and the domestic market and discourage exports. It also attracted resources
to manufacturing, thereby discriminating against agricultural production, and
increasing the cost of some manufactured inputs used in the agricultural
sector. In a first major step to lessen these deficiencies, a revised tariff
structure was adopted by the Government in January 1986. Import tariff peaks
were reduced from a maximum (including all surcharges) of 220% to 100%, and
tariff dispersion was reduced so that over 75% of commodities now have
tariffs 70% of less.2/ Based on these data, average tariffs and tariff
dispersion have been reduced for all tariff categories by about 30% and 50%,
respectively. The reductions in nominal tariff levels on final products,
together with the progressive reduction of tariff exonerations on imported
inputs and raw materials (para. 2.10), should reduce recent levels of
effective protection significantly. Preliminary estimates indicate, for
example, that effective protection for some textile products should decline
from 120% to about 70%, and for footwear products from over 200% to less than
100%.
2.13      The Government plans to continue revising tariff levels in order to
lessen the anti-export bias introduced by tariffs for which exporters are not
adequately compensated, and to improve the internal terms of trade,
particularly between the industrial and agricultural sectors. A unit to be
established in the Central Bank to estimate and monitor shadow prices under
the proposed loan will also minitor, in coordination with the Agricultural
Policy Analysis Group to be financed under the recently aproved Agricultural
Sector loan, changes in internal terms of trade and effective protection.
The unit would also propose further tariff reforms.
2/  Except for tariff levels of a few items, which were under import
prohibitions between 1982 and March 1985. These import prohibitions were
initially replaced by tariff levels of up to 250%. The new tariff for
these items ranges up to 125%, including surcharges.



- 7 -
B. The Financial Sector
Instltutionol Structure and Development
2.14      Main Institutions  The main institutions in Ecuador's financial
system are the Central Bank (BCE), 32 private commercial banks with about 285
branches; 3 state banks-the National Developmant Bank (BNF), the Ecuadorian
Housing Bank (BEV), and the Er-'adorian Development Bank (BEDE)-and 13 fi-
nance corporations, including the public National Finance Corporation (CFN).
There are also 11 savings and loans associations; more than 25 insurance com-
panies; various currency exchange offices and securities markets in Guayaquil
and Quito. The Social Securicy Institute (IESS) is also a major depository
for financial savings. As a group, commercial banks dominate Ecuador's fi-
nancial system, and their outstanding loan portfolio represents 75 Z of total
lending to non-bank borrowers.
2.15      Policy-making agencies are the Monetary Board, BCE, and the Super-
intendency of Banks. The Monetary Board sets exchange rate, interest rate,
and other financial policies which are implemented by the BCE and the Super-
intendency of Banks. BCE also provides credit to financial intermediaries,
including special discount credlt lines. The Superintendency of Banks super-
vises financial intermediaries and is responsible for publishing statistical
information on the banking system.
2.16      The principal vehicles for BCE's indirect lending have been the Fi-
nancing Funds (Fondos Financieros), which were established in 1973 to develop
and strengthen specific activities that the Government wanted to encourage.
There are currently five Funds (three financed by BCE funds, one by Treasury
budget funds, and one by foreign loans channeled by BCE), including one that
provides medium-term loans to Small-Scale Enterprises. The Funds financed by
domestic resources grant mostly short-term credit with a maximum term of two
years, and interest rates to final borrowers that are among the lowest avail-
able.
2.17      Developments  The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970s, main-
ly because bank ownership granted access to profitable BCE credit lines and
because guarantees for foreign loans to the private sector grew rapidly and
appeared profitable. Additionally, negative real interest rates charged to
final borrowers, and attractive margins and commissions provided to interme-
diaries, stimulated lending growth. However, such a situation provided
little incentive for financial institutions to mobilize domestic resources on
their own, and they became increasingly dependent on BCE credits and foreign
borrowings for resources. The structurally flawed financial system which
thus arose became all the more fragile because easy granting of bank licenses
led to the establishment of many small, inefficient and undercapitalized
banks. Between 1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21
to 32 and finance companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave liqui-
dity problems beginning in 1983 as foreign resources dwindled and economic
conditions deteriorated. Combined with the devaluation of the sucre, these



- 8 -
factors diminished the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated
obligations guaranteed by the banks. To help financial intermediaries, the
Government carried out a 'sucretization" program (Annex 3, para. 4) under
which BCE assumed foreign debts and the participating institutions became
obligated to repay BCE in sucres over a period of up to seven years. While
this program enabled the immediate liquidity crisis to be managed, one of its
legacies was that BCE credit in 1983 financed about 35% of the commercial
banks' and up to 60 % of finance companies' portfolios.
Interest Rate Policy and Resource Nobilization
2.18      Performance  Official interest rates are established periodically
by the Monetary Board. Judged by international standards, Ecuador has in the
past been quite unsuccessful in mobilizing domestic financial resources. A
comparison for 1980 of a standard measure of financial deepening (the ratio
of money supply (M3) to GDP) for six Latin American countries and Nigeria, an
OPEC nation, revealed that only one country exhibited less financial
deepening than Ecuador.
2.19      The poor past performance in resource mobilization is attributable
mostly to the reluctance of prior Governments to adjust interest rates in
response to chaages in expected inflation. Until 1981, the authorities
maintained interest rates at levels below inflation. Thus, Ecuadorians
increasingly chose more attractive savings alternatives (foreign financial
assets or unregulated inter-company financial market assets) over deposits
within the Ecuadnrian financial system. Since 1981, official interest rates
on savings and time deposits were raised periodically, but until recently
remained below domestic inflation. As a result, there was little improvement
in private domestic resource mobilization. Also, high and variable rates of
inflation and fixed interest rates made it impossible for Ecuadorian finan-
cial institutions to make long-term loans without assuming unreasonable
risks.
2.20      Government Action  To spur domestic resource mobilization, at the
end of 1984 the Government raised official interest rates and introduced
large denomination (over one million sucres) Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
bearing unregulated interest rates. This brought nominal official deposit
rates to about 20-23% p.a. and effective lending rates to about 25-26% p.a.
for loans up to two years, and 26X p.a. for loans over two years. CD rates
are about 26% on twelve-month deposits; funds mobilized through such CDs are
onlent for a similar term at about 30% p.a. These measures brought official
interest rates to positive levels in real terms (inflation was about 14%
p.a. for the six months ending December 1985). Moreover, in late August 1985
the Government issued new legislation to allow long-term financial
instruments to carry variable rates to be adjusted at frequencies determined
by the Monetary Board, and amended the laws governing banks and financieras
and the Monetary Law as outlined in para. 2.22 below with the purpose of
strengthening the financial condition of Ecuadorian financial institutions.



- 9 -
2.21      Further Action Requlred  The changes in interest rates have begun
to have a salutary effect on domestic resource mobilization; during 1985 real
deposits in commercial banks rose over 25 % and savings deposits and CDs more
than doubled in real terms. Furthermore, the introduction of variable
interest rates should greatly facilitate long-term lending. However, future
action will be needed to allow more automatic adjustment of interest rate
levels, especially to reflect changes in the rate of inflation, which
oscillated in recent years between 14% and 62% p.a. Moreover, high nominal
interest rates present a problem for long-term loans. Traditional repayment
methods for such loans result in debt service payments which are concentrated
in real terms in the earlier years, imposing liquidity strains on borrowers.
During the dialogue on financial policies, the Bank explored the possibility
of introducing financial instruments which would provide for partial
capitalization of interest. However, the Government believes that such
action would be difficult to administer and may be less urgent as its
anti-inflation program takes effect.
2.22      Recent Legal Reforms  With the purpose of strengthening the
financial condition of Ecuadorian financial institutions, amendments were
issued in August 1985 to the laws governing financieras and banks, and to the
Monetary Law. In addition to permitting variable interest rates on loans of
more than two years term, these amendments included: (i) shortening of the
minimum term of certificates of deposit issued by financieras from 270 days
to 90 days, which they may now repurchase prior to maturity, and permitting
the Monetary Board to revise these terms from time to time; (ii) establishing
that total liabilities of financial institutions cannot exceed 15 times
paid-in capital and reserves; (iii) requiring that the loans of any financial
institution to any one person cannot exceed 25% of the institution's paid-in
capital and reserves (there are several important exceptions to this exposure
limit, including credits resulting from the sucretization, and credits of
less than 180 days covered by adequate guarantees used to finance exports);
(iv) requiring financial institutions to establish a reserve for bad debts
equal to 10% of all accounts receivable; and (v) expanding the powers of the
Superintendency of Banks as a supervisory agency.
Past Bank Leading and Strategy in Industrial and Financial Sectors
2.23      The Bank has provided five loans for development finance companies
in Ecuador. These loans total US$155 million, net of cancellations. The
first four DFC loans (Loan 721-EC app-oved December 15, 1970; Loan 930-EC
approved June 26, 1973; Loan 1359-EC approved December 28, 1976; and Loan
1731-EC approved June 19, 1979) are completed. The fifth loan (2096-EC)
signed April 22, 1982), is fully committed and 92% disbursed. A Completion
Report has recently been issued for the third and fourth DFC projects. Its
main findings showed that by SeptembDr 1983, devaluation, recession, reduced
consumer demand and public sector investment all reduced industry's ability
to meet debt service payments on projects financed by DFCs. Inadequate
financial sector policies and supervision by regulatory authorities, as well
as weaknesses in DFCs' appraisal and supervision also contributed. The
financial statements of DFCs therefore reflected sharply declining revenues



- 10 -
and income. The profitability, liquidity, and financial structures of DFCfj
weakened as portfolio problems mounted. These problems are being addressed
under the proposed project.
2.24      The Bank has also made two Small Scale Enterprise (SSE) loans and
is processing a third. The first (Loan 1879-EC) for US$20 million was
approved in June 1980 and disbursed one-and-a-half years earlier than expec-
ted. A second SSE operation (Loan 2221-EC) for US$40 million was approved in
December 1982. Execution of the project has proceeded smoothly and the loan
was 95 percent committed at end-1985. Board consideration of a third SSE
loan for US$30 million is scheduled for March 1986.
2.25      In line with Government objectives, Bank strategy for the indus-
trial sector is to support employment-intensive and export-generating indus-
tries, as well as those making efficient use of local resources. The pro-
posed project is designed to further the Government's objectives in the
industrial sector, and to support progress on the broader aspects of Bank
strategy, aimed at: (i) encouraging resource mobilization and more efficient
resource allocation through financial sector reforms; and (ii) improving the
industrial and trade policy framework to encourage more efficient industrial
production.



- 11 -
III - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectlves and Desc.iptton
,Bgd
3.01      The project was identified by the Bank in October 1984 and was pre-
pared by the Government with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in
July 1985. Negotiations for the proposed project took place in Washington
from January 15-22, 1986. The Ecuadorian delegation was led by Mr. Alfredo
Crespo, Subsecretary of Public Credit.
Project Objectives
3.02      The proposed project would (i) support changes in trade, industrial
and financial policy; (ii) continue encouraging more efficient domestic
resource mobilization and allocation throught an adequate interest rate
structure; (iii) strengthen the financial condition of financial intermedia-
ries; (iv) provide term credit for efficient industrial development; and (v)
provide technical assistance to: the Government to derive shadow prices for
more effective project evaluation; the Superintender_y of Banks and the
Superintendency of Companies to strengthen their stupervisory capabilities;
and financial intermediaries to strengthen their project evaluation capabili-
ties.
Project Description
3.03      The proposed loan would consist of two parts.  Part A would finance
essential imports in support of the series of measures which have been taken
to liberalize trade, industrial, and financial sector policies, as outlined
in paras. 1.15 - 1.20, 2.16 - 2.20, and summarized in Annex 8. These
measures--which complement recent actions to improve resource allocation and
the efficiency of the agricultural sector--would represent fundamental steps
to reorient Ecuador's model of industrial development towards a more
efficient one, and strengthen the capacity of the financial system to
mobilize and allocate domestic resources more effectively. They are
essential to promote Eucador's continued adjustment and growth, and are fully
consistent with the Bank's policy dialogue.
3.04      Part B would provide long-term loan funds to finance a proj-ct with
two distinct components: (i) financing of privately controlled Ecuadorian
manufacturing firms for fixed assets and permanent working capital to ini-
tiate permanent programs to export, or expand or reorient production for
export; to establish efficient new enterprises; or to expand or reorient the
productive capacity of existing firms; and (ii) financing of technical
assistance to: help establish within BCE a mechanism to calculate and update
a set of shadow prices for the economy; strengthen the supervisory capabili-



- 12 -
ties of the Superintendency of Banks and the Superintendency of Companies by
developing and giving training programs for their staff, establishing new
management information systems, etc.; and strengthen the project evaluation
capabilities of the financial intermediaries which are or could become
eligible to participate in the project.
B. Particlpating Iostitutions
Private Finaenieras
3.05      As discussed in pars. 2.17, during the 1970. financial repression
led to low domestic resource mobilization and heavy dependence on foreign
borrowing. Much of this foreign borrowing was guaranteed by local financial
intermediaries. By the end of 1982, foreign borrowing had been largely
curtailed and economic conditions had deteriorated. The recession, combined
with the negative effects of devaluation, put a number of firms in financial
distress. Their high levels of indebtedness and inability to repay
outstanding loans further weakened business demand and caused a deterioration
in the financial performance of the financieras. The sucretization of the
foreign private debt improved the debt structure of private borrowers and
their liquidity positions; however, it caused a sharp deterioration of the
debt/equity ratios of the financieras, from below 10 to 1 at end-1981 to
between 15 to 1 and 25 to 1 at end-June 1984. Some of the financieras have
subsequently obtained fresh capital contributions and capitalized earnings,
thereby improving debt/equity ratios to between 14 to 1 and 19 to 1 at
end-1984.
3.06      During appraisal, the financial condition of the six largest
private financieras which participated in the Fifth Development Banking Pro-
ject (Loan 2096-EC) and Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) was examined in
detail, including their latest external audit reports and analyses of their
loan portfolios. The external audits of these financieras have been carried
out by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell or Price Waterhouse & Company. In the last
years, the audit reports have been received by the Bank on a timely basis
except for the 1984 audit report for COFIEC which was delayed. Clean audit
opinions were issued during the period for all the financieras except for
FINANSA (1983) and CFN (1983) for which qualifications were made concerning
the recoverability of certain loans and the adequacy of the reserves for bad
debts. In both cases appropriate corrective action has been taken. Also,
the status of a number of subprojects financed under the loan was reviewed.
The private financieras studied wore ranked according to selected financial
criteria, profitability, portfolio quality, etc. Based on these factors,
three of the private financieras were considered to be in relatively good
financial condition at end-1984; three others would need to take major steps
to increase capital and loan loss provisions in order to qualify for
participation in the proposed loan.



- 13 -
Eligibility Criteria
3.07      Eligibility criteria have been established for participation in the
proposed loan in order to assure that only financieras meeting certain finan-
cial standards participate, and to encourage the fJnancieras to take steps to
improve their financial condition, including obtaining new capital
contributions from shareholders. Participating institutions would have to
maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than 15:1 as of the end of 1985;
this would be reduced annually, declining to 12:1 at the end of 1988.
Financieras would also have to meet annual targets with respect to interest
coverage, liquidity ratios, and exposure limits which were agreed during
negotiations. In order to obtain fresh capital resources for the
financieras, improve their financial structure and mobilize domestic
resources, each eligible financiera would be entitled to ulse US$9 equivalent
from the proposed loan for each dollar increase in its equity after January
1, 1985, to finance subprojects. However, no single financial intermediary
could commit more than 50Z of the loan amount available for sublending under
the project. In order to provide the financieras with an adequate return on
equity in real terms, the initial financial spread on subloans would be 5%
p.a., and interest would be required to be charged quarterly. The adequacy
of financieras' spreads would be reviewed semi-annually by the Borrower and
the Bank and adjusted, if warranted, to take into account changes in
inflation levels and their cost and capital structures.
Corporacion Flnanciera Nacional (CFN)
3.08      Established in 1960, CFN is the oldest and largest development
finance company in Ecuador and the major provider of medium- and long-term
credit to the industrial sector. CFN is wholly Government-owned. Although
its policies and operations must conform with Government development objec-
tives, CFN is relatively autonomous in its day-to-day operations. At end-
1984, CFN's total assets were about US$200 million equivalent with equity of
about US$35 million equivalent. CFN's financial position deteriorated in
recent years as a result of: (i) an increase in non-earning assets due to
the sucretization; (ii) liquidity problems due to Government delays in reim-
bursing CFN for foreign exchange losses; (iii) low returns on equity invest-
ments; and (iv) deterioration of its loan portfolio.
3.09      During project preparation, a plan of action for strengthening CFN
financially and institutionally, so that it could meet the same eligibility
criteria for participating in the proposed loan as the private financieras,
was discussed with CFN and the Government. As a result, the Government and
CFN have recently taken a number of important steps. CFN reorganized its
loan administration and established units responsible for collection and for



- 14 -
restructuring problem companies. Loan recoveries have improved and a number
of companies have been restructured. Moreover, in December 1985, the
Government took steps to increase effectively CFN's capital by some US$40
million equivalent. Finally, CFN has taken steps to sell a number of its
equity holdings. These steps will greatly improve the financial structure of
CFN and greatly ameliorate its recent liquidity problems. The capital
increase would reduce CNF's exposure in Aztra (a sugar company which has
suffered continuing financial losses) from 41% to about 19%, and greatly
reduce its exposure in other companies. The standard loan provisions on
exposure for all participating financial intermediaries would also apply to
CFN.
3.10      A plan of further actions agreed for CFN requires (i) CFN to
maintain its efforts to improve credit collections and strengthen the
financial condition of its clients; (ii) the Government and CFN to take, by
June 30, 1986, all necessary measures spelled out in the decree authorizing
the capital increase required to legally effect the increase referred to in
para. 3.09; (iii) CFN to avoid making loans or capital contributions to Aztra
unless the funds for such purposes are provided by the Government as a
capital contribution or grant to CFN; and (iv) CFN to engage by June 30,
1986, consultants to strengthen its financial and accounting systems. In
addition to the standard eligibility criteria for all financieras, CFN would
need to fulfill all agreements under the plan of action to continue to be
eligible to use the credit component of the loan.
Sonitoring
3.11      At present, the Financial Policy Unit of BCE establishes and moni-
tors credit discount limits for commercial banks and financieras. Eligibi-
lity and determination of the amount of participation of the financieras
would be governed by criteria agreed with the Bank and applied by this Unit.
The financieras would be required to have their accounts and financial
statements audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; they would
be required to furnish to the Bank and to the Financial Policy Unit of BCE,
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of their audited financial statements.
C. Project Costs and Financing Ar-angements
Project Costs and Financing
3.12      Part A of the loan would provide USS50 million equivalent to
finance the foreign costs of about 2.5% of Ecuador's projected 1986
A



- 15 -
imports. 3/ Since all policy actions which the loan would support have been
taken, the full US$50 million under Part A would be available for dis-
bursement upon loan effectiveness. Part B of the loan would finance subpro-
jects and technical assistance. The total investment cost of subprojects is
estimated at US$102.3 million. This includes an estimated US$69.3 million in
foreign costs, and US$9.2 million of import duties and sales taxes. In addi-
tion, technical assistance would zost some US$660,000 (US$240,000 each for
the Superintendencies of Banks Prad Companies, US$120,000 for BCE, and
US$60,000 for financial intermediaries) making a total cost of US$103
million. Part B of the proposed loan would provide US$65 million equivalent,
or about 632 of the total cost of subprojects and technical assistance and
93% of foreign exchange costs. Beneficiaries would finance about 32% and
financieras about 5% of such costs.
Loan, Subsidiary Loan and Subloan Terms
3.13      The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges. It would be repayable
over 17 years, including 4 years of grace. The Government, through BCE as
its agent, would onlend the proceeds from Part B of the loan to eligible
financial intermediaries for subprojects, except for the portic.:s for tech-
nical assistance. For the latter: (i) US$100,000 from the loan would be
mad!e available to BCE as a grant to carry out a study on shadow pricing; (ii)
US$200,000 from the loan would be made available by BCE to the Superin-
tendency of Banks, and US$200,000 to the Superintendency of Companies to
carry out their respective technical assistance, and would be repaid on terms
similar to those for subloans; and (iii) US$50,000 would be lent on commer-
cial terms by BCE to the Association of Development Banks for the finan-
cieras' technical assistance. Terms and arrangements for repaying the tech-
nical assistance costs to BCE would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
3.14      The remaining US$64.45 million equivalent from Part B of the pro-
posed loan would be onlent in sucres to financial intermediaries at variable
positive real interest rates as they are determined from time-to-time by the
Monetary Board. Financial intermediaries would onlend these resources to
project beneficiaries at the rates established from time-to-time by the Mone-
tary Board. The intermediaries would receive a spread of initially 5% p.a.
BCE would retain 0.25% p.a. fee to cover its costs of administration. The
revenues from the difference between the Bank's lending rate plus BCE's fee,
and the rates charged to the financial intermediaries would be used by BCE,
as agent, to cover, in whole or in part, the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan. However, any shortfall would be made up by the Government, which
would take the foreign exchange risk and pay the commitment fee on the Bank
loan. On the basis of current official rates (25% p.a.) which would be
applicable to subloans, there is an ample spread over the current World Bank
3/ The Bank and the Government are beginning discussions which could lead to
cofinancing being sought in the context of this project.



- 16 -
lending rate to cover the difference between domestlc and world inflation
(the expected foreign exchange risk). However, this relationship is likely
to change if lending rates are lowered or inflation levels change signi-
ficantly. To the extent that the Government continues the recent trend to-
wards market-based interest rates, interest rate adiustments should he more
responsive to such differentials. Signing of a fiscal agency agreement bet-
ween the Government and BCE, satisfactory to the Bank, would he a condition
of loan effectiveness.
3.15      Subloans for fixed assets (machinery, equipment and civil works)
would be made for up to 12 years, including up to four years of grace, and,
for permanent working capital for up to six vears, including up to two vears
of grace. Lending terms and grace periods for individual subloans would take
into account the economic life of assets to be financed and the repayment
capacity of sub-borrowers. The maximum cumulative subloan amount from Bank-
funded sources per sub-borrower or group of related firms would he USS5 mil-
lion equivalent. It would be a condition of disbursement for anv subloan
that the participating financial intermediary had signed a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with BCE acceptable to the Bank.
3.16      The Government has agreed to maintain interest rates on all loans
to the industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels which
are positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987, are also adequate
relative to deposit rates, as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank. The
Government would review with the Bank the adequacy of the level of lending
interest rates at least semi-annually beginning October 1, 1986. It would
also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial
resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed with the Bank. The
adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these occasions. If, during
any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of lending interest
rates, spreads, or domestic financial resource mobilization were inadequate,
and the Government and the Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this,
then the Bank would have the right to withhold financing of fresh subloan
commitments under the proposed loan.
Subproject Review
3.17      A review of a number of subprojects financed under the Fifth Devel-
opment Banking Project, indicated that, although subproject evaluation had
improved since previous DFC projects, areas for improvement still exist. For
example, the analysts of management and markets should be strengthened,
greater allowances should be made for contingencies in financing plans, loan
terms and grace periods should better reflect project life and implementation
schedules, and greater attention should be given to macroeconomic risk
factors. A format listing all matters to be dealt with in subproject evalua-
tion reports has been discussed and agreed with the financieras. All subpro-
jects submitted to the Bank for financing would be required to follow the
agreed format. In addition, a technical assistance component would be
included in the project to offer training courses to staff of the financieras
arid CFN to upgrade their capabilities, especially in market, financial and



- 17 -
economic analysis of projects. Based upon experience under the Fifth Devel-
opment Banking Project, the following free limits for Bank review of subpro-
jects have been agreed for the various financieras:  CFN - US$2 million;
FINANQUIL - US$1 million; COFIEC, FINANSUR and ECUFINSA - US$0.5 million;
FINANSA and FINIBER - US$0.35 million. The free limits would be increased or
decreased during project implementation once the Bank had reviewed the first
four subprojects of any given financiera, and depending upon whether the Bank
was satisfied that the project evaluations submitted had been performed ade-
quately. Financieras other than the above would have no free limits until
the Bank was satisfied with the project evaluations submitted. An economic
evaluation would be required for each subproject with (i) a total investment
cost exceeding US$1 million, or (ii) a subloan exceeding the free limit for
the financiera involved. The minimum required ERR would be 12%.
Procurement
3.18      For Part A of the loan, procurement for any item over US$5 million
would be by ICB following standard Bank procedures. Items costing less than
US$5 million equivalent would be procured following normal procedures of the
purchaser. For Part B, the financial intermediaries would satisfy themselves
during subproject appraisal that procurement items were suitable for the res-
pective investment project and reasonably priced, and that the beneficiaries
had canvassed the main available sources of supply and were purchasing from
advantageous sources. These procedures would conform to normal commercial
practice for DFC-type projects. As under the Fifth Development Banking Pro-
ject, informal international or local solicitation of offers would be fol-
lowed for any purchase over US$250,000. Consulting services and goods for
technical assistance would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Dlsbursements
3.19      Bank disbursements under Part A of the loan would be for 100% cent
of the c.i.f. costs of eligible imports, but only for goods for which payment
was made within 120 days from the date on which they were landed in Ecuador.
Eligible imports would be all goods except those normally excluded under Bank
policy-based loans, such as alcohol, tobacco, armaments, etc.; goods financed
by other Bank loans; and expenditures under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements under Part B of the loan would be for:
100% of the direct foreign expenditures for imported goods and services to
finance fixed assets (machinery and equipment) and permanent working capital
(inventories, raw materials); 70% of local expenditures for imported goods
procured locally; and 35% of local expenditures for locally produced goods
and services and for civil works. These percentages would reflect the direct
and indirect foreign exchange cost. Disbursements under the technical
assistance components would be for 100% of the costs of consulting services
and equipment, excluding local taxes, local subsistence costs, and import
duties. Disbursements under both Part A and Part B of the loan, except for
technical assistance, would be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). These would be certified for Part A disbursements by BCE, and for



- 18 -
Part B disbursements by the financieras. The supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained by the financieras and BCE and made available to Bank
missions for review. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account of US$15
million equivalent would be established in BCE. The Special Account and SOEs
would be subject to annual audits carried out by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank. A schedule of estimated disbursements based upon the
standard profile for IDF operations is given in Annex 7. The final date for
submission of subloans would be December 31, 1988, and the Closing Date for
the loan would be December 31, 1993.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
Benefits
3.20      At the macroeconomic level, the industrial, trade, aLAd financial
sector policy reforms which the project would support represent fundamenital
steps to reorient the model of industrial development pursued ir. recent de-
cades in Ecuador, and strengthen the capacity of the financial system to mo-
bilize and allocate domestic resources more effectively. These policy
changes are essential to promote Ecuador's continued economic adjustment and
growth. Tn the medium-term, by promoting exports, improving the internal
terms of trade between industry and agriculture, and promoting development of
domestic resource-based industries which Ecuador's comparative advantage can
support, the trade and industrial sector reforms should stimulate demand for
agricultural products, promote urhan and rural employment and help improve
the living conditions of the country's poor. The proposed project would also
provide long-term resources for financing efficient industrial enterprises in
Ecuador and help them adapt to the rnew policy framework. About 90 investment
projects costing an estimated IJSSlO2.3 million and creating about 3,400 new
jobs would be financed. Further important benefits would result from the
continued dialogue with the Government on interest rates and industrial poli-
cies which affect the environment in which industrial enterprises operate.
Financial policy reforms should in the longer-run reduce the reliance of
financial i;itermediaries or, the Government atnd the Bank for resources.
Risks
3.21      The major risks facing the macroeconomic reforms which the project
would support relate to their political sustainability and the maintenance of
an attractive exchange rate for export promotion. Although the policy re-
forms supported by Part A of the proposed loan have'already been taken, the
Government will likely be under continuing pressure to modify or reverse them
until they demonstrate widespread, tangible benefits. So far, the new
Government has maintained its original policy objectives despite resistance
to liberalization. Maintenance of an adequate exchange rate,
which will be critical for the success of the trade liberalization measures
and export expansion, is being closely monitored by the IMF. Both the Bank
and the Fund have coordinated their analyses of export incentives so that the
positions of the two institutions are consistent.



- 19 -
3.22      At the institutionel level, some financial intermediaries are in
poor financial condition and may be unable to meet the eligibility criteria
in order to use loan resources to finance subprojects. As a result, commit-
ment of Bank funds could be delayed. In addition, participating financieras
may again experience financial difficulties which could delay repayment of
subloans to BCE. Technical assistance included in the project to strengthen
regulatory agencies should limit this risk. Also, depending upon the rate of
economic recovery in Ecuador and the potential short-term impact of import
liberalization and interest rate reforms, demand for resources from the
credit component of the project could slacken. However, even if loan
disbursements were somewhat slower than forecast, project benefits arising
from individual subprojects and the technical assistance programs should
still be realized.



- 20 -
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND  ECOMMEATION
Agreements
4.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was obtained and
understandings were reached on the following:
(1) With the Government on:
(a) Establishing a variable interest rate for subloans (para.
3.14);
(b) Maintaining interest rates on all loans to the industrial
sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels which
were positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987,
were also adequate relative to deposit rates, as measured by
criteria agreed with the Bank. The Government would review
with the Bank the adequacy of the level of lending interest
rates at least semi-annually, beginning October 1, 1986. It
would also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of
domestic financial resource :aobilization, based as well on
criteria agreed with the Bank. The adequacy of spreads would
also be reviewed on these occasions. If, during any of these
reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of lending interest
rates, spreads, or domestic financial resource mobilization
were inadequate, and the Government and the Bank were unable
to agree on remedies for this, then the Bank would have the
right to withhold financing of fresh subloan commitments
under the proposed loan (para. 3.16);
(c) Financial intermediaries would have to continue to meet
agreed eligibility criteria tailored to improve their
individual financial conditions in order to have access to
loan resources. In order to encourage their increased
capitalization, for each US dollar equivalent increase in
their equity after January 1, 1985, intermediaries would have
access to US$9 equivalent from the loan to finance
subprojects. However, no single intermediary could commit
more than 50% of the loan amount available for sub-lending
under the project (para. 3.01);
(d) A special plan of action to strengthen CFN financially and
institutionally wold be maintained in effect as a condition
of CFN's participation in the project (para. 3.08);
(e) The initial 5% spread on subloans for participating financial
intermediaries to be charged quarterly and arrangements for
reviewing the spread as inflation and the cost structure of
the financial intermediaries changes (para. 3.06);
(f) The plan of action to strengthen CFN financially and institu-
tionally as a condition of participation by CFN in the loan
(para. 3.09);



- 21 -
(g) Arrangements for the Financial Policy Unit of BCE to monitor
eligibility criteria for participation in the proposed loan
(para. 3.11);
(h) External auditing for the financieras (para. 3.11);
(i) The format to be followed in subproject evaluation reports
and the free limits for participating financial
intermediaries (para. 3.17);
(j) Procurement procedures to be followed (para. 3.18); and
(k) Disbursement percentages for subprojects; arrangements for
the Special Account, auditing of SOEs (para. 3.19).
(2)   With CFN on the plan of action as a condition for its
participation in the loan (para. 3.09).
4.02      Condition of loan effectiveness is that the Government and BCE
enter into an agency contract satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14).
4.03      Condition of Disbursement for any subloan is that the
participating financial intermediary had signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the BCE acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.15).
Resco~maPdation
4.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$115 million to the Republic of
Ectuador on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



- 22 --
ANEX 1
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAIS,.L REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Average Tariffs and Dispersion of
Current and Proposed Tariff Structure
Mean             Standard Deviation
Tariff Section                 Current    Proposed    Current    Proposed
I.     Live animals and
related products                 114          69          99          49
II.    Plants and vegetables              83          52           97         48
III.   Edible oils                       117          69           98         46
IV.    Food products and tobacco         143          92           81         40
V.     Mineral products                   18          15           36         19
VI.    Chemical products                  16          14           25         17
VII.   Rubber                             51          36           47         26
VIII.  Hides, leather                     90          61           77         32
IX.    Wood, cork                         94          59           72         38
X.     Paper, pulp                        69          47           84         43
XI.    Textiles and clothing              93          68           73         39
XII.   Footwear                          159         100           71         31
XIII.  Glass, ceramics                    74          57           63         39
XIV.   Precious stones                   134          91           91         38
XV.    Metal and metal products           52          37           49         30
XVI.  Machinery                           40          27           43         24
XVII.  Transport equipment                45          36           47         46
XVIII. Scientific and opt.
instruments                       60         44           43          33
XIX.   Others                            113          77           36         25
Source: Manual Arancelario del Ecuador, Central Bank
Propuesta Arancelaria, MICEI
August 1985



- 23 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
1. Terms of Reference for the Superintendency of Banks
The consultant(s) would review the legal responsibilities,
organization, staffing, data processing equipment and software, and the
analytical work and reports prepared by the Superintendency of Banks (SB)
and would:
(a) Review and make recommendations to revise the financial data and
reports required to be supplied by commercial banks to the SB;
(b) Conduct training courses for staff of the SB in credit and
financial analysis of commercial banks and in overall bank review
procedures;
(c) In the course of carrying out the training of SB staff, identify
personnel who could carry out similar training courses in future
as part of a permanent program of training in the SB;
(d) Provide guidance and on-the-job support to SB staff in the
examination of a number of the larger commercial banks;
(e) Advise the SB on the standardization of reports prepared by SB
examiners and analysts and in their distribution and use within
the SB;
(f) Assist the SB in the use of its inspection manuals in carrying
out its work programs for supervision, and advise the SB on the
use of its staff and its training policies and programs;
(g) Advise the SB on the requirements of the new law which specifies
new procedures for establishing reserves for doubtful accounts
and also advise on procedures for classifying loans and banks by
financial condition, operations, etc.
(h) Review existing bank regulations and make recommendations to the
SB with a view to simplifying them and eliminating those which no
longer have practical utility;
(i) On the basis of the information to be supplied by commercial
banks and other financial institutions, assist the SB in
identifying appropriate computer equipment and software and



-24 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
developing programs to assist SB analysts in the storage,
retrieval and analysis of this data for analytical purposes and
for reporting to management of the SB.
2.  Terms of Reference for the Superintendency de Companies
The consultant would review the legal reponsibilities,
organization, staffing, data processing equipment and software and the
analytical work and reports prepared by the Superintendency of Companies
(SC) in order to develop with the Superintendencia:
(a) The SC's needs for computer equipment and software in order to
handle its data management and analysis requirements over the
next few years;
(b) The SC's needs to develop systems for inspectors to organize and
control the collection and review of financial and operating data
on companies;
Cc) Terms of reference for consultants to design and implement new
data management and analysis systems, including training programs
for staff; and
(d) Courses to train staff of the SC in analysis to determine the
financial condition and performance of companies in the principal
subsectors in which Ecuadorian companies operate. The
consultants would give an agreed number of courses for SC staff.
3. Terms of Reference for Estimates of Shadow Prices for Project Appraisal
in Ecuador
Objectives
1.        First, to derive a set of shadow prices for Ecuador to facilitate
more effective project economic evaluation by the Ecuadorian's financial
intermediaries.
2.        Second, to train a local team to be able to understand the
rationale and mechanics of the calculation of shadow prices. As a result,
the local team should be able to update the set of shadow prices at regular
intervals so as to include the impact of changes in the country's economic
environment, as well as changes introduced by modifications in economic
policy.
Work Program
3.        The function of the set of shadow prices to be estimated is to
make possible more consistent estimates of shadow prices, which in the past
have been ignored or have tended to vary from project to project, depending
on the particular assumptions favored by the project analyst, and his/her
choice of which goods and factors require shadow pricing.



- 25 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
4.        The consultants, with the suppert of the local team, should
collect the basic data needed to compute and establish a set of shadow
prices. To compute shadow prices, the Squire-van der Tak approach should
be considered as the first alternative in choosing the methodology to be
used. This method has the advantage -- vis-a-vis the use of an
economy-wide shadow exchange rate - that, by computing conversion factors
for major on-tradable commodity groups, it focusses on specific adjustments
to be made to remove distortions in relative prices of the particular
non-traded goods involved in a project.
5.        While a separate conversion factor should, in theory, be defined
for each non-tradable good, it is neither feasible nor necessary to do so
in practice. Thus, grouping non-tradables will be expected and estimates
of standard conversion factors will be sufficient in valuing minor
non-tradables. Valuation methods to be used, for tradables have to be
included as well. In grouping goods, however, it has to be considered that
the error in the estimation is likely to be greater, the greater the degree
of aggregation used. The evidence from the countries in which many
conversion factors have been estimated suggests considerable variations
across sectors and commodities. It would be expected that estimates to be
calculated should include general conversion factors -- for: (a) traded
inputs, (b) machinery, (c) equipment, (d) non-traded inputs, (e) raw
materials, (f) capital, (g) labor, including conversion factors for rural
labor, unskilled urban labor, and semi-skilled and skilled labor, (h) major
non-traded services such as transport, electricity, commerce, civil
construction and other, (i) demand-price, (j) supply-price, and (k)
consumption. Desaggregation of the above conversion factors would be
desirable and it would depend on the availability of information and its
relevance for economic project evaluation in Ecuador.
6.        The consultant in estimating shadow prices should consider the
main methods available: (l) decomposition of sector cost of production,
(ii) use of data on trade tariffs and subsidies, and (iii) input-output
analysis. However, the input-output method might be considered as the
first alternative given: (i) the existence of an updated I-0 matrix in
Ecuador, and the feasibility of its desaggregation, (ii) its major
advantages vis-a-vis the other method, i.e.; (a) it allows the estimation
of a greater number of conversion factors, (b) it can be used to trace out,
in a consistent manner, the implications of a policy change on the whole
set of conversion factors, and (c) it facilitates updating.
Personnel and Responsibilities
7.        The Government will hire five man-months of foreign consultant
services. The consultant - who will have primary responsibility for
establishing the first set of shadow prices as well as for training the
Ecuadorian counterpart - should be an economist with substantial
experience in computing shadow prices along the lines established in
paragraphs 4-6. The Government will provide a counterpart of four
economists to be trained by, and work full time with, the consultant. The



- 26 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Government will also provide office space, administrative services,
computer facilities and additional resources as required for the completion
of the study.
Reports and Timetable
8.        The consultant will report to the Director of the Office of
Economic Studies of the Central Bank of Ecuador, who will have overall
responsibility for the study's implementation and coordination. Progress
of the study will also be monitored by the Bank during regular supervision
missions and/or missions related to the proposed Sixth Development Banking
Project. The study will commence in early 1986, and will take about five
months. A progress report will be presented two months after the study has
started, and a draft report will be presented 30 days after the consultant
has finished the field work. The draft report will include the value of
the different shadow prices computed for the e .nomy as well as detailed
annexes describing the methodology, data, computer program, etc. The
object of these detailed annexes is to provide a well documented basis for
the continuation of the empirical work by the Ecuadorian team. The final
report, which will include comments of the draft report received by the
consultant from the Government and for the World Bank, is expected to be
completed by mid-1986.
4. Outline of Courses for the Evaluation of Industrial Projects
Course I - Project Evaluation with emphasis on market Analysis, and on
the Financial and Economic analysis of Projects.
Day I Market Analysis
Consumer Analysis - consumer needs, market segmentation, the
purchasing process, market research and data collection.
Analysis of the competitive environment - market structure,
basis of competition, institutional constraints.
Day 2
The marketing plan - product design, pricing, distribution,
promotion (marketing strategy)
Demand forecasting - techniques and considerations for
forecasting sales.
Day 3   Financial Analysis
AM   Methodology for financial projections for a 'greenfield'
project - income statements, balance sheets and funds flow
statements, cost and benefit streams and calculation of the
financial rate of return (FRR).



- 27 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
PM   Methodology for financial projections for an expansion project
- cash flows with and without t-he project, incremental cost
and Sensitivity Analysis benefit streams and FRR.
Day 4   Economic Analysis
AM   The concept of economic analysis
Identifying relevant costs and benefits - transfer payments,
contingencies, sunk costs, externalities.
PM   Pricing Traded Inputs and Outputs - Deducing Border Prices.
Day 5   Economic Analysis (continued)
AM   Nontraded Inputs and Outputs
Conversion Factors
Shadow Prices
PM   Calculating the economic rate of return
Economic cost and benefit streams, discounting
Sensitivity analysis and interpretation of results Short-cut
methods.
Days 6 and 7
Review of case studies which illustrate the main elements of
the financial and economic analysis.
Day 8
Review of analysis of actual cases prepared by course
participants (or groups).
Day 9
Financial and economic analysis by individual course
participants (or groups of participants) of a problem case.
Review and discussion of model solution to the problem case.
Day 10
General review and discussion of methodologies for financial
and economic analysis of projects.
Evaluation of course by participants.
Course II    The Use of Computers in the Financial and Economic Analysis of
Projects
Day 1        General review of the methodology for financial and economic
evaluation of projects.
AM   Financial rate of return calculations
PM   Economic rate of return calculations



- 28 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Day 2        General description of the project evaluation model - data
requirements, entering and editing data, reports.
Day 3        Demonstration of the application of the model for a sample
project - sensitivity analysis.
Day 4        Use of the model to evaluate a project using data supplied by
the participants - sensitivity analysis.
Day 5        Review and discussion of model solution to the problem case.
Evaluation of course by participants.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Financial Condition of Financieras (DFCs)
Background
1.        The Ecuadorian financial system suffered grave liquidity problems
beginning at the end of 1982 as the availability of foreign resources
dwindled and economic conditions deteriorated. These factors deeply
affected an already structurally flawed financial system. During the 1970s
the domestic financial system had been repressed by ceilings on deposit and
lending rates. These ceilings led to a poor record of domestic resource
mobilization and a dependence on foreign lending guaranteed by local
financial intermediaries; when the recession developed and devaluation
became necessary, these guarantees placed great pressure on the intermedia-
ries. By the end of 1982 it was clear that the recession in the Ecuadorian
economy, the persistence of inflation, combined with the negative effects
of devaluation, had created financial distress in a large number of enter-
prises. Their high indebtedness and inability to repay outstanding loans
to the banking system had in turn caused a weakening in business demand and
in the financial condition of the DFCs.
2.        To refinance their clients and continue income-earning activity
in the face of a shrinking base of long-term resources, the DFCs resorted
to increased use of short-term credit, and to expanded use of the Central
Bank's (BCE) rediscount lines and special credit facilities. However,
these credit lines, which carried high interest rates, coupled with
long-term lending at rates fixed in the past, contributed to a narrowing of
the spread between interest income and interest expense, from about 4.5% on
average in 1981 to 2% in 1983.
3.        The narrowing of the spread was aggravated by the DFCs' declining
earning capacity due to a significant change in their asset structure. In
the early eighties the DFCs were heavily involved in guarantze and letter
of credit operations in foreign exchange. In a guarantee operation a
foreign credit was arranged by an Ecuadorian financial intermediary with a
foreign bank. The financial intermediary then provided a guarantee,
charging a 4% fee. During the 1980-1982 period, guarantees accounted for
between 25% and 50% of the operations of financieras, averaging 45% for the
financieras as a group. Loans accounted for between 35% ard 70% of
operations (average 40%) and acceptances and letters of credit operations
averaged 15%. Average earning assets amounted to between 90% and 95X of
the total assets of the DFCs. This structure changed dramatically after
the devaluation and subsequent sucretization program (see para. 4 below)
mainly due to two factors: the elimination of the guarantees as a



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
profitable line of business and the introduction of the exchange risk
commission. By the end of 1983, exchange risk commissions averaged 20% of
total assets, resulting in a decrease of average earning assets to 70% of
total assets.
4.        The devaluations in 1982 and 1983 imposed a severe burden on the
financial system. The sucretization mechanism was established by the BCE
in March of 1983, to help ease this burden. Under the sucretization
mechanism (Monetary Board Resolutions 047-83 and 048-83 of March 1983)
USS1.2 billion in private sector registered foreign debt was assumed by the
BCE. The resolutions imposed upon the financial intermediaries the
obligation to pay BCE (i) an amount equivalent to the debts' principal in
Sucres (at the current exchange rate) carrying an interest rate of 16%
p.a. plus an annual fee of 1/2% on undisbursed balances, and (ii) an
exchange risk commission equal to between 70% and 100% of the principal
under (i) above, intended to cover the expected exchange losses associated
with future devaluations over the period of the credit. Simultaneously,
the financial intermediary and the private enterprises were to negotiate a
Sucre loan under terms similar to those given to the financial intermediary
by the BCE. The principal of the Sucre loan and the exchange risk
commission were to be paid over a maximum term of three years including
1-1/2 years of grace. In October 1984, the terms were extended to a
maximum of seven years including 4-1/2 years of grace.l/ No interest,
however, is payable to BCE on the portion of the sucretized loan
representing the exchange risk fee, and the intermediaries are not
permitted to charge interest on this amount to their borrowers, thus they
effectively receive no spread on this portion (on average 46% of the total
of sucretized loans).
5.        As a result of the sucretization program, private borrowers have
a better cash flow and debt structure but financial intermediaries have
seen their liabilities increase several-fold, resulting in a sharp
deterioration in their debt/equity ratios, which reached levels between 15
to 1 and 25 to 1 in June of 1984 from 7 to 1 to 10 to 1 at the end of
1981.  However, a number of financieras have subsequently increased their
capital base by obtaining fresh capital contributions as well as
1/ In mid-October 1984, it became evident that most Ecuadorian enterprises
would be unable to pay the debt as scheduled under the original
sucretization program. The terms of the sucretization were extended to
seven vears, with 4-1/2 years of grace, but the other conditions were
left unchanged. While this extension clearly has alleviated the
repayment problems of debtors, it seems to have been too generous with
respect to the cost of the loans (the exchange risk fee was not increased
but the exchange losses would now increase given the longer new repayment
periods). Moreover, the BCE would not only be confronted with a large
portfolio of long-term assets which would inhibit the reallocation of
resources but also with losses that would have to be covered by Central
Government revenues, or alternatively by inflation taxes.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
capitalizing earnings. Thus the debt-equity ratios as of December 1984
have improved substantially in some cases, and the financieras which
participated in the Fifth Development Banking Project (Loan 2096-EC) have
lowered their debt-equity ratios to between of 14 to 1 and 19 to 1.
Similarly, their profitability has suffered since their fixed costs
continue increasing with inflation while their ability to make new loans is
restricted given their already high debt/equity ratios.
6.        During appraisal the mission reviewed the financial position of
the DFCs2/ which are participating in Loan 2096-EC. The seriousness of
the condition of individual financieras varies with differences in the
degree of deterioration of their portfolios, financial structures and the
management of their funding requirements and lending operations. A
detailed analysis is given below. Individual financial statements, asset
adequacy analysis, and estimated loan loss provisions based on each DFC's
loan portfolio data, are available in the project file. Profit margin
summaries for individual DFCs are attached as Annex 3, Table 1; selected
financial ratios for all the DFCs are presented in Annex 3, Table 2; and
the financial eligibility requirements to participate in the proposed loan
are outlined in Annex 3, Table 3.
Financial Condition of the DFCs
7.        Key financial data for the six leading Financieras (excluding CFN
which is analyzed separately) are given below:
2/ Corporacior Financiera Nacional (CFN), Compania Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
S.A. (COFIEC), Compania Financiera Nacional S.A. (FINANSA), Financiera
Ecuatoriana de Financiamiento S.A. (ECUFINSA), Financiera Ibero-Americana
S.A. (FINIBER), Financiera del Sur S.A. (FINANSUR), and Financiera
Quayaquil S.A. (FINANQUIL).



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
Key Financial Data, December 1984
FINANQUIL   ECUFINSA   FINANSUR   FINIBER   FINANSA   COFIEC
-- - - - - As % of Average Total Assets*-
Average Earning Assets    76.3          75.3         69.6       73.5      68.9      69.2
Net Interest Margin         4.0          4.0          4.2        1.9       3.5       1.6
Administrative Expenses    1.0            1.3         1.1        0.9        1.8      0.8
Loan Loss Provision         0.9           1.2         0.9        0.5       0.9       0.4
Net Profit Margin            1.5          1.0         1.7        0.5        1.3      0.2
D/E 12/31/84                14.7        13.6         15.2       15.9       18.0     18.7
Reserve for Bad Debts as
s of Total Portfolio       2.0          2.5          2.5        1.4       1.5       1.5
*including contingencies
8.        There are basically five factors which are affecting the
financial results and condition of the Financieras:
(i)   Earning assets - the share of total assets which are
revenue producing. Clearly the higher this is the more
likely it is that a financiera can be profitable. Three of
the financieras have earning assets around 75% and the
other three around 70% of total assets.
(ii) Net interest margin. This is a function of the kinds of
operations in which the financiera concentrates its
operations. Those engaged more in letter of credit and
other commission earning activities tend to have higher net
spreads. Also, financieras which finance more of their
current, high yielding loans with relatively low cost bonds
issued when interest rates were lower, tend to have higher
average net spreads. Most financieras earned a net spread
of 3.5% to 4.5% except for FINIBER and COFIEC which earned
less than 2%.
(iii) Administrative expenses.  Most average 1% - except for
ECUFINSA (1.3%) and FINIBER (1.8%).



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
(iv) Loan loss provisions. Normally the lower the better in
order to maximize net income. However, the financieras
have all had to make substantial provisions for doubtful
accounts in order to establish adequate reserves. Only
FINANQUIL (which has substantial hidden reserves), ECUFINSA
and FINANSUR are considered to have adequate reserves.
(v)   Debt/equity.  Clearly the lower the better in view of the
poor quality of some of the financieras' assets.
9.        Based on these factors, only three of the financieras (see (i)
below) are considered to be in relatively good financial condition as of
December 31, 1984.
{i)   FINANQUIL, ECUFINSA and FINANSUR.  These financieras have
healthy financial indicators. Although ECUFINSA's net
interest margin was only 1% of total assets in 1984 it has
high earning assets and financial spread and an adequate
loan loss provision. It only needs to control its
administrative expenses in order to become relatively
profitable.
(ii) FINIBER must improve its net interest margin by shifting to
more profitable activities, increase its loan loss
provisions in order to establish a more satisfactory level
of reserves and reduce its debt/equity ratio slightly.
(iii) FINANSA and COFIEC are in a more serious condition -
FINANSA must reduce its debt/equity ratio and operating
expenses significantly and increase its loan loss
provisions. COFIEC must also improve its net interest
margin, reduce its debt/equity ratio significantly anu
increase its loan loss provisions.
Eligibility Criteria for Financieras
10.       The eligibility criteria to use loan funds were reviewed duiing
the appraisal mission with the financieras.  A detailed summary of those
criteria is given in the following sections.
(i)   Debt/Equity ratios were based upon assumptions concerning
the financieras' profitability and expected capital contributions of their
shareholders. The financieras do not expect earnings to dramatically
improve nor that their shareholders will be willing to make significant
capital contributions (although some recent contributions have been made to
meet debt/equity requirements set by the Superintendency of Banks).
Earnings are not expected to increase significantly because an important
part of the financieras assets are in the form of foreign exchange risk
premiums, the non-interest bearing part of -sucretized- loans. The
sucretized loans have a grace period running until 1989 so that it will be



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
difficult for the financieras to liquidate these assets (and the related
liabilities) and reduce their debt/equity ratios accordingly. Taking these
factors into account it was concluded that the financieras could achieve a
debt/equity ratio of 14 to I by the end of 1986, 13 to 1 by the end of 1987
and 12 to 1 by the end of 1988. These ratios were discussed and agreed
upon with financial intermediaries during project preparation. However, on
August 22, 1985, the Government approved changes in the Bank and Finance
Company Laws to permit a debt/equity ratio of 15:1, recognizing that
financial institution would have difficulty in reducing their debt/equity
ratios until sucretized loans could be liquidated. At the same time it
authorized the Superintendent of Banks to require financial institutions to
increase their reserves for bad debts to 10% of all accounts receivable in
order to reflect the poor condition of their loan portfolios. As a result
of this change. parcicipating institutions will be required to either meet
the above debt/equity targets or establish extraordinary reserves for bad
debts which, if added to stockholders equity, would reduce the institutions
debt/equity ratio to the target level. For this purpose, the extraordinary
reserve for bad debts is the amount in excess of the basic reserve for bad
debts and the basic reserve for bad debts is the amount which the
management and external auditors of the financial institution consider
adequate on the balance sheet date.
(ii) interest coverage ratio i.e., the ratio of net income
(after adequate provisions for bad debts) plus interest and commissions
expense to interest and commissions expense. This ratio measures the
financieras' ability to borrow. Net income in absolute terms is small
relative to the amounts of interest and commissions expense. Therefore the
ratio is expected to improve slowly as net income increases and debt/equity
ratios decline. The following ratios are considered to be attainable:
1.10 for 1985
1.12 for 1986
1.14 for 1984
1.15 for 1988
(iii) current ratio i.e., the ratio of current assets (cash,
short-term loans, acceptances, letters of credit, interest due) to current
liabilities (total liabilities minus long-term debt). This ratio measures
the liquidity position of the financiera and should be at least 1.0.
(iv) exposure limit i.e., the ratio of loans and investmer.t in
any one beneficiary, borrower or group of related borrowers to the DFCe
equity. Because of the increase in the value of loans previously granted
caused by recent large devaluations, the exposure of the financieras has
increased in a number of cases above the usual limits they set (25%). It
will take some years to reduce these exposures to 25% and the following
schedule is considered to be attainable.
40% of equity by end - 1985
35% of equity by end - 1986
30% of equity by end - 1987
25% of equity by end - 1988



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
In calculaAng equity for the purpose of determining exposure limits the
extraordti%ary reserve for bad debts will be included.
(v)   determination of amount of participation:
In order to obtain fresh capital resources for the financieras,
to improve their financial structure and to mobilize domestic resources:
For each dollar of increase in equity by a financiera,
starting January 1, 1985, the Bank would permit the
financiera to utilize US$9.0 equivalent of the proposed
loan to finance subprojects.
Equity is defined as an increase in paid-in capital made by
the shareholders or by the capitalization of retained
earnings.
-     The dollar equivalent would be calculated based on the
average exchange rate (cambio intervenido del Banco
Central) of the month in which the increase in capital
occurred.
For participating financial intermediaries spreads on subloans financed
wi-th loan funds would initially be 5% p.a. This spread compensates for
current high levels of risk and the costs of project evaluation and
administration. Moreover, such a spread is needed for the financieras to
have an adequate return on capital in real terms taking into account
current high levels of domestic inflation (See Annex 4).
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN)
11.       CFN's financial condition by the end of 1984 was poor.  Its poor
financirl performance can be attributed to (i) increased non-earning assets
due to the effect of s-icretization of CFN's loans; (ii) the Government's
failure to reimburse CFN for the foreign exchange losses resulting from
amounts withdrawn from the Loans 1731-EC and 2096-EC; (iii) low
profitability of investments; and (iv) deterioration of its industrial loan
portfolio.
12.       In December 1984, only 74% of CFN's assets were revenue-earning
compared with 91% in 1980. Two-thirds of the non-earning assets in
December 1984 were accounted for by two items: (a) the effects of exchange
rate fluctuations on CFN's unpaid foreign debt, i.e. deferred losses which
amounted to about S/ 2,400 million; and (b) the exchange risk commission -
S/ 275 million - resulting from the sucretization program.
13.       In the last two years, CFN has shown a negative net operating
profit margin, i.e., the spread between interest and dividend income minus
interest expense, administrative expense and loan loss provisions. The



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
spread fell mainly because the cost of short-term borrowings and the amount
of sucretized loans rose faster than the yield on CFN's portfolio. Large
provisions for possible loan losses and administrative expenses of about 2%
also reduced profits. However, the presence of extraordinary items -
revenues from foreign exchange gains on deposits and payment by the
Government of foreign exchange losses from previous years - led to a net
profit of 0.3% of average total assets in 1984.
14.       To compound CFN's problems, loan and interest payment arrears
soared to a 25% level by the end of 1984. Seventy-five percent of CFN's
loan portfolio affected by arrears was accounted for by half a dozen major
public or mixed ownership industrial companies. A number of these firms
need to be restructured financially. Furthermore, of CFN's equity
portfolio, three companies (AZTRA - a sugar mill; SELVA ALEGRE - a cement
plant; and ADAMAS ANDINA - a paper plant), which represent about 70% of CFN
equity participations, produce no investment income and are at times a
drain upon CFN finances. The companies are in very poor financial
condition and require capital as well as loan support from CFN, their major
shareholder, and the Government. CFN's concentration of loans and
investments in a number of mixed and public enterprises distinguishes it
from the private financieras. To allow for the greater risk element in its
portfolio, CFN had a much lower debt/equity ratio of 4.6 to I at the end of
1984 compared with 15 to 1 for the Financieras and its reserve for losses
was 7.7% of total loan and investment portfolio compared with about 2% for
the financieras.
Plan to Strengthen CFN
15.       For CFN to participate in the proposed loan, CFN and the
Government would be required to carry out an action plan acceptable to the
Bank. A copy of the proposed plan was sent to CFN and the Government in
April 1985. The plan would be confirmed during negotiations:
(a)   To strengthen CFN's finances:
(i)   a program to recover overdue accounts;
(ii) a program by the Government to:
- pay amounts due to CFN to cover foreign exchange
losses as agreed under Loans 1731-EC and 2096-EC;
and
- increase CFN's paid-in capital.
(iii) Agreed timetable by the Government to progressively
reduce CFN's total exposure (loans and equity
investments), in particular companies, to acceptable
percentages of CFN's equity. If the Government
requires CFN to make a loan or investment in a



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
company it would be required to make an equity
contribution in CFN equal to the loan or investment.
Moreover, in calculating CFN's eligibility, the book
value of any investment and loan made on behalf of
the Government, including investments in multilateral
institutions, would be excluded from CFN's equity.
The effect of excluding investments and loans in
Aztra, Cementos Selva Alegre and Corporacion Andina
de Fomento would increase CFN's equity ratio from
4.6/1 to 12/1 as of December 31, 1984 (See Annex 5).
(b)   To strengthen CFN institutionally
A timetable to carry out a technical assistance program to
strengthen CFN's financial and accounting information system financed under
Loans 2096-EC and 2221-EC which should be coordinated with the
organizational changes now being considered by CFN's management.
16.       During the appraisal, the mission assessed the progress in
carrying out the plan:
(a)   To strengthen CFN finances:
(i)   A satisfactory program to recover overdue accounts
has been in effect for some months and appears to
have had a positive impact on collections.
(ii) The Government has made considerable progress in
paying amounts due to CFN to cover foreign exchange
losses as agreed under Loans 1731-EC and 2096-EC.
Some SI 480 million has been paid in 1985 leaving
about SI 230 million overdue as of May 31, 1985. CFN
expects payments to become current in the next few
months given recent Government interest in resolving
this issue.
During the first six months of 1985 the Government
has paid S/ 440 million in capital to CFN, of which
SI 250 million is to increase its FOPEX lending
program and S/ 190 million is to increase its
investment in CAF (Corporacion Andina de Fomento).
(b)   To strengthen CFN institutionally:
A timetable to carry out a technical assistance component
to strengthen CFN's financial and accounting information
system was the last item of the proposed plan of action.
CFN has received an acceptable proposal from a firm of
qualified consultants to begin the work. However,
procedures followed by CFN were not in accordance with Bank



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
guidelines for engaging consultants and the Bank cannot
finance the assignment. CFN has been encouraged to finance
the consultants with its own resources. Implementation of
the assignment in accordance with the plan of work in the
consultants proposal would be considered satisfactory
performance under this part of the plan of action.
During negotiations the plan would be confirmed with CFN and the
Government. Continuing compliance would be a condition of participation
for CFN under the loan.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Table i
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Profit Margin Sumary
Fl_IIL                                 191       12       193       1934               ECUFIUA                                 111    112         ui      ITU"
Averag  Total Asets [S. ml             2963      357t     5634      161t               Aveage Total Assets ISi.  1             1074     2473      4640 1    719
Average Earning huts ISI. a            2634      3231     67"       t749               Average Earnil Assets t1. m             1775     2549      3774     5090
Earning buts as 2 of                                                                   Earning huts a' I of
Total Ahuts incl. Contingncin         67.2      92. 9    3.0       74.3                Total hsuts lnc. Contingencies          .       95.5      74.4 t    5.3
I 12 of Avuerage  Total Aunts?                                                          A s   of Avrwage Total ASSets?
Interest Incm   a1                      5.4      6.3       5.9      10.4               Internt Incon as                        5.2       5.7      5.6       9.7
Irtirest Exp.        hI                 1.4      2.2       3.4       t.!              ltnrst Esnep   hI U                     0.1       2.7      2.4       5.4
NET INTEREST MARGIN                   4.2       4.2      2.5       4.0                 NfET ilTEREST NARGIN                  4.4       4.0       3.1      4.0
Adm;nistrative Expense                  1.0       1.!       1.1      ;.O       ;       Admistatave Ex;enses                     1.3      1.       121       1.3
6ROSS OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN         3.2       2.9     1.        2.9                  RUSS OPERA'rIN  PROFIT MARGIN         3.0      2. 1     2.0       2.9
Lon Loss Provision                      0.4       !        0.9       o.9       :       Loa  Loss Prasion                        0.2      D.6       1.4      1.2
NET OPERATING PROFIT MAR61N           2. 9      1.7      3.6       2.0                  0ET OPERATING PROFIT  ArGIN          21.6      2.l       l.
Other Inco                              0.7       2.6      2.1       3.6               Other Income                            *.9      2l. 0       1       0.9
Other Expenses c/                       1.3       1.4      1.4       1.1               Other Expnses cl                         1.3      1.6       1.1      1.4
NET PROFIT  ARGIN                    2:.2       2. 0     1.        1.                  NET PROFIT MARGIN                     2.4       2.6       1.6      1.0
FINRSR                                                                         '       FINIDER
.suCa ...                                                                              -sss=s
Average Total Assets ISI1.) 'mEI                 1501     4742      933                Average total Assets  St. ml           1959      26'.      4136     5973
Averge Earning Assets aSI. *i           693      1337     3442      6506                verage Eaning Asse:; IS:. mI          1I37      2424     3147      4442
Earning Assets as 2 of                                                                 Earning Assets a; 2 a'
Total Assets incl. Contingencin    99.9        93.9      6-1.      696                 Total Asuts incl. Cont.igenin    93.4           90.9     75.4      73. 5
A  I of Average Total Assets)l                                                         !As 2 of Average Total Asets)
Intrent Incme a/                        6.6      6.:       5.1      11.6               Interest Income a/                      5.3       6.4      1.1       9.2
Intrest Expense b;                      1.4      2.:       2.5       7.                Interest Epemse ol                      1.t       2.9      3.1       7.:
NET INTEREST MARIN                    5.2       4;       2.7       4.2       :         NET INTEREST MARGIN                   4.2       3.5      2.0       1.
Administrative Expenses                 1.7       :.1      1.0       1.1               Admniutrative Epnses                     ;.5      ;.'       1.0      0.9
6ROSS OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN         3.5      2.0       1.6       3.2                 6ROSS OPERATINS PRCFIT MARIN          2.7       2.2       1.       1.1
Loan Loss Provision                     0.0       0.0      1.5       0.9               Loan Loss Provision                     0.6       0.4      0.5       0.5
NET OPERATING PROFIT MAR61N           3.5      2.0       0.1       2.3                 NET OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN           2.1       1.9      0.6       0.6
Othr Income                             0.4       2.       0.4       0.4               Other Income                            0.3       0.1        .0      0.3
Other Expense  c/                       0.9      0.9       0.4       1.0               Other Expens cl                         0.9       0.3      0.4       0.4
NET PROFIT MARGIN                     3.1       3.4      0.1       1.7                 NET PROFIT MARGIN                      1.5      1.1      0.2       0.5
* Inciudn contingencies.
a/Inclin  cemissons nd dividends.
bi Incledn cm ssions.
cl Inclden other ep ens, mployet profit sharbig, snd income tax.



- 40 -
ANNE 3
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Fl_                                     is1       am       39 1      93T U         CUlEc                                    3931     912      1993      195
I~~~~~~-                                      --        --    __   *_.-                                                  -          -
Avre  Total Assts ISI. ol               3093     3963       769    10941           Averale Total huts i9. ol                6019     7433    1176    35236
Avare' Earoing Auts iS5. ml             2942     36        5145     95             Averae Earniq  Ihuts IS/. ml             59       6959     9604    11212
Earniq Auts as   of                                                               Earnial Assets as I of
Total huts incl. Continesn s             .3     96 1      61.4     61.9            Total Assets Incl. Contingucine         92.7     94.3     79.6     69.2
lb I of Avrep  Total Aesets)                                                       (As   of Averape Total Asstel
Intrnet Incme  at                        56       6 .3       .4     10.0          Interest Income at                         7.1      7.5      5.9      9.6
Interet Exun  hi                         2.0      L.4       3.9      6.5           Intrnet Expens  bI                        3.6      4.3      4.3      1.1
MET INTEIE5T MuIl                      3.6      2.9       2.5      3.5             NET INTEREST  AISWIN                    3.5      3.2      1.6       1.1
Administrative Expum                     3.6       1.9      1.6      :.J           Administrative Eapeons                    1.2      1.0      3.9       0.3
i65 IPEIATIN  PROFIT ERSIN             2.0       1.1      1.0      1.7             GROSS PEtTINS PROFIT ENNUI              2.4      2.       0.9       0.9
Loan Loss Provision                      0.3      0.5       0.4      0.9          Loan Loss Provision                        0.4      0.5      0.5      0.4
NET OPERATING PRFMIT RAISIN            1.7       0.7      0.6      0.9             MET OPERAING PROFI RASIN                2.0      1.9 0     .       0. .
Other lincom                             0.6      0.9       0.1      1.6           Other Incom                               0.7      J0.      0.2      0.2
Other Eip use  cI                        0.1      0.5       0.2     131           Other ENpensn cl                           1.1      1.I      0.3      0.4
NET PRIFIT HARGSI                      1.5       1.0      0.4      :.I            NET PROFIT IUUSII                        1.a      1.3      0.1      0.2
CFN                                      :901     1992     1923      1994
AVei-e Total Asuts 15?. s1               9575    11411    14909    19312
Average Earnin  isets (IS. ci            9705    30009    11927    13791
Earning Auts as I of
Total  ssets Intl. Continqencin        90.9    fl.1      7.3      74.1
1As 7 of  wei'e Total Anotsl
Interust Ineom  at                       9.;       9.4      9.!     10.6
Interest Epeus hI                         5.5      5.6      6. 
NET INTEREST WASIN                      2.9      2. 9     2.0       3.1
Administrative Expenses                   1.9      2. 0     1.9        . 0
ROSS OPARATIN  PROFIT MARAIN            0.9      0.9      0.1       1.1
Loan Loss Provision                       0.5      C.9      1-7       3.0
NET  PEI4TINS PROIT RAISIN              0.4       .0     -!. .    -1.9
Other Ircoe                               0.1      0.4      2.0       2.3
Other Expenses cl                         0.1      0.1       .0      0.1
IET PROFIT RAISIN                       0.4      0.3      0.3      0.3
* Includes contingmeuin.
a/ Inciues comissions and divideds.
i Includesn comlssions.
el Incise   other   psn , employee profit sharing, and incoe ta.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Selected Financial Ratios for All DFCs
1981      1992      1983      1984
1. DebtlEquity
FINANGUIL                                  7.9        7.9      13.2      14.7
ECUFWHNSA                                  7.9       10.0      14.9      13.6
FINANSUR                                   7.1        6.6      15.4      15.2
FINIBER                                    8.5        7.8      14.5      15.9
FINANSA                                    9.5       11.3      21.1      ia.O
COFIEC                                     9.1       11.0      17.4      19.7
CFN                                        3.2        3.6       4.9       4.6
2. Interest Coverage Ratio
FINANQUIL                                  2.6        1.9       1. 4      1.2
ECUFINSA                                   4.0        t.6       1.6       1.2
FINANSUR                                   3.2       2.6        1.1       1.2
FINIBER                                    1.9        1.4       1.1       1.1
FINNSA                                      1.7       1.3       1.1       1.2
COUIEC                                      1.5       1.3       1.0       1.0
CFN                                        1.1        1.1       1.0       1.0
3. Current Ratio
FINANDUIL                                  1.2        1.2       1.3       1.3
ECUFINSA                                    1.3       1.2       0.9       0.8
FINANSUR                                   1.3        I..       1. 3      1.1
FINIBER                                    1.2        1. 2      1.2       1.1
FINANSA                                    1.2        1. 2      1.1       1.2
COFIEC                                     1.0        1.1       1.0       1.0
CFN                                        1.4        1.5       1.5       1.5
4. Piserve for Dad Debt
as I of Total Portfolio
FINAN2UIL                                  0.9        1.       1.5       2.0
ECUFINSA                                   0.5        0.8       1.5       2.5
FINANSUR                                   0.0       O.0        1.0       2.5
FINIDER                                    0.7        1.9       0.7       1.4
FINANSA                                    0.8        1.0       0.9       1.5
COFIEC                                     0.9        1. 1      1.2       1.5
CFN                                        1.3        1.9       3.7       5.4



- 42 -
ANNEX-
Table 3
ECUA&R
INDMSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria
In order for the financieras to participate, they must meet the
following criteria:
1.   Debt/equity ratio not to exceed:
15/1 initially
14/1 by end-1986
13/1 by end-1987
12/1 by end-1988
2.   Interest coverage to be not less than:
1.10 for 1985
1.12 for 1986
1.14 for 1987
1.15 for 1988
3.   Current ratios (short term assets divided by short term
liabilities) in execss of 1.0.
4.   Exposure limits not to exceed:
40% of equity by end-1985
352 of equity by end-1986
30% of equity by end-1987
25% of equity by end-1988
5.   For each dollar increase in equity from January 1, 1985, the
financiera may utilize USS9.0 equivalent of the proposed loan to
finance subprojects.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Calculation of Real Return on Equity
With a Nominal 4, 4j and 5% p.a. Financial Spread Compounded Ouarterly
Spread                                                 4%      44%       5%
Nominal lending rate                                   20%     20%       25%
A. Interest Income on Loans
compounded quarterly - effective yield p.a.        21.55   21.55    27.4
Nominal rate to financieras                             16%    15.5%    20%
B. Interest Expense on Loans
compounded quarterly - effective                   16.98   16.42    21.6
cost p.a.
Effective financial spread - p.a. (A - B)              4.57    5.13      5.8
Deduct:   Adt0nistrative Expenses       1.0
Loan Loss Provision           1.0           2.0      2.0      2.0
Net Spread                                             2.57    3.13      3.8
Rate of Return on Equity Based on Debt/Equity         30.59   37.30    45.2
Ratio of 15:1 and 75% earning assets
Inflation Rate                                          16%   15.5%    24.0%
Real Rate of Return on Equity                         12.6%   18.9%    17.1%



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(Amounts in USS Million Equivalent)
Foreign Costs   Local Costs   Total Costs
Amount Z
Project Costs
Part A
Investment Projects                       69.34         33.00       102.34
Technical Assistance to BCE,
Superintendent of Banks
Superintendent of Companies
and Financial Intermediaries            0.55           0.11         0.66
Part B
Imports of Inputs for Industrial
Companies                                50.00          -           50.00
Total Project Costl/                    119.89         33.11       153.00
Sources of Financing
Bank                                      115.00          -          115.00
Financial Intermediaries                    4.89          -            4.89
Project Beneficiaries                                    33.00        33.00
BCE, Superintendent of Banks,
Superintendent of Companies                              0.11         0.11
Total                                    119.d9         33.11       153.00
1/ The tax content of the project would be approximately US$9.2 million or 9X of
the cost of investment projects.



45                         ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Findings from Survey of Subloans - Loan 2096-EC
Background
1.        The Fifth Development Banking Project (2096-EC) was signed in
April 1982, one month after the Government devalued the sucre and began
enacting a series of policy measures designed to preserve Ecuador's
liquidity position and balance the country's current account. The pace of
new industrial expansion and new investment faltered as the economy slowed
under retrenchment policies: foreign exchange constraints grew, imports
were restricted or prohibited, credit was tightened and domestic demand
declined.By 1983 the economy was in a full-scale recession. The initial
performance of Loan 2096-EC was affected by both this macroeconomic setting
and new participation criteria for the Development Finance Companies (DFCs)
established under 2096-EC. The project suffered effectively a 12-month
start-up delay due to problems with foreign exchange transactions
(nominally resolved by creation of a US$10 million Revolving Fund at Riggs
National Bank), import restrictions, and the weakened condition of the DFCs
(who were also hampered in their efforts to mobilize domestic resources and
thus increase their 2096-EC allocation). The complex steps required of
DFCs to qualify for the use of loan funds also contributed to the project's
start-up lag. By November 1983, 75% of the Loan had been committed but
only 14% had been disbursed. Projected disbursement schedules were revised
downwards, trade transaction problems abated, and by the close of the first
semester of 1984 disbursements once again approximated initial projections.
2.        During the Industrial Finance Project appraisal mission, a survey
of subloan recipients was conducted to measure subproject outcomes as
opposed to feasibility study projections and to evaluate the financial and
operating viability of the beneficiary companies. The saD.ple was comprised
of 14 enterprises, which received 51% of the proceeds from 2096-EC (through
19 different subloans, some of which co-financed the same subproject)
through seven DFCs. In the course of this survey, interviews at each DFC
were conducted with loan officers familiar with the relevant subproject(s);
files were reviewed for financial statements, supervision reports and other
relevant data, and seven subprojects were visited. Strength and weaknesses
of DFC subproject appraisal and supervision were also evaluated.
3.        An in-depth discussion of subproject outcomes, overall financial
viability, an annotated comparison of ex ante vs. ex post subproject
variables and evaluation of DFC management is found in Annex IV of the
Supervision Report for 2096-EC dated August 20, 1985. Table 1 summarizing
survey results on a company-by-company basis is attached to this Annex. An
exposition of both exogenous and endogenous variables affecting subproject
outcomes, a critique of feasibility etudy content and focus, and
recommendations for mitigating/improving these issues are detailed below.



46
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
Overview
4.        Virtually every subproject suffered delays and/or cost overruns
due t"' the impact of the macroeconomic policy changes outlined above.
These problems were exacerbated in the case of six companies by inadequate,
erroneous or misleading feasibility studies that masked either existing
operating and financial problems (a history of losses, illiquidity, and low
production levels) or true subproject risk levels. In general, few
feasibility studies discussed the impact of the deteriorating economy
(negative GDP growth of -3.3% in 1983) on subproject implementation and
crucial start-up phases. As a consequence, subloan terms and conditions
for these subprojects proved to be inadequate: grade periods did not allow
for start-up delays and subloan maturities were unrealistically short
considering the operating life of the assets they financed. As well, the
amortization schedules exacted high repayments in real terms in the initial
- and riskiest - stage of subproject production. Feasibility study
oversights were related to (in order of decreasing importance) management
capabilities, engineering aspects, subsectoral performance, technology
transfer and absorption and the impact of government subsidies, incentive
programs and price controls.
Findings
5.        A number of exogenous events created subproject delays and
increased costs during both credit approval and disbursement. Substantial
import permit delays (particularly throughout 1983, when few non-essential
impnrted goods were permitted to enter Ecuador) were experienced by most
subloan recipients. Trade document processing delays occurred in both the
Central Bank (BCE) and Riggs National Bank: some subprojects were delayed
because DFCs were uninformed about Bank procurement procedures and the
execution of irrevocable letters of credit (some foreign suppliers insisted
on this instrument). Many DFCs submitted subprojects before becoming
eligible to participate in 2096-EC: financial statements and resource
mobilization data required for eligibility were sent belatedly and some
DFCs, upon learning of ineligibility, had to find other DFCs to finance
their clients. Finally, the Junta Monetaria's decision to unify the import
exchange rate at S/95:US$1 (which effectively increased subloans in sucre
terms by 50%) created liquidity and debt repayment burdens for companies
whose trade documents were liquidated after September 14, 1984.1/
Recommendations: To reduce importing delays, loan agreements
should provide for the government's best efforts in expediting
importation of goods financed by Bank Loan proceeds. Because
substantial credit transaction delays occurred within the
Revolving Fund facility, a more appropriate institution for
managing the Revolving Fund may be an international money center
bank.
1/ Because of processing backlogs in the BCE's operations division, this
affected companies who had actually received imported goods up to nine
months previously.



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
6.        Subproject evaluation did not sufficiently take into account the
practical difficulties and unforeseen problems of actual
project implementation. A lack of attention to logistical detail--of
fundamental importance for successful subproject outcomes-was
characteristic of the four subprojects among the sample that foundered.
(Not too incidentally, these were among the largest, more complex
subprojects of 2096-EC.) Errors and omissions common to these feasibility
studies included: faulty site engineering studies, improper and/or
inadequate machinery choices, insufficient allowance for training and
technology absorption, lack of project managers, inadequate or unreliable
raw material supply, costly subproject modifications, and a lack of overall
management coordination and planning. Subproject implementation
schedules--when they were included in the feasibility study-were generally
sketchy2/ and optimistic, underestimating actual time required to
assemble, integrate afid start-up a new industrial project.
Recommendations: Subproject evaluations should deal in more
detail with the logistical aspects of the subproject. More
comprehensive, definitive implementation schedules based on
realistic assessments of foreign as well as local factors
influencing them should be a part of feasibility studies.3/ An
integrated implementation schedule for the more complex
subprojects should define a critical path to ensure optimal
execution.
7.        Feasibility studies do not provide sufficient background
information on the operating environment (i.e. macroeconomic and
subsectoral conditions, relevant pricing subsidies and incentive schemes,
trade policies, or supply and demand constraints). In an industrial
economy such as Ecuador's, where public policy has been actively
interventionist, these factors may determine the success or failure of an
investment. Since no feasibility study among surveyed subprojects
discussed the impact of changes in Ecuador's operating environment (i.e.
the recession, import permit problems, import restrictions, foreign
exchange availability, etc.) and since these changes were well established
when most feasibility studies were being prepared, subproject risk levels
were underestimated.
.erommendations: A fuller treatment of these issues may identify
areas (variables) where the subproject is weak or sensitive. If
sensitivity analyses testing alternative assumptions are
conducted by the DFC on different ranges of these variables (such
as input/output prices, implementation delays, production volume,
project life, investment cost increases, etc.) before subproject
approval, a more informed subloan decision based on more precise
risk levels car be made. Loan conditions addressing these risks
will ensure higher subproject success rates and lower economic
and financial costs.
2/ Implementation schedules were usually summarized in a sentence that
stated in broad terms the time required for subproject completion.
3/ A prototype schedule is found in Annex 3-2 of World Bank Technical Paper
No. 33, 'Guidelines for Calculating Financial and Economic Rates of
Return for DFC Projects."



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
8.        All surveyed expansio- projects executed by companies with
histories of operating and/or financial problems (i.e. technology problems,
losses, illiquidity and high leverage ratios) have been unsuccessful to
date. Feasibility studies for these projects noted previous problems but
did not elaborate fully on their cause(s). Remedial actions to correct
these original operating/production problems are now being implemented, but
two of the three problem subprojects may never be successful. The
opportunity costs of executing these subprojects have been consequently
quite high.
Recommendations: Subproject applications made by companies with
poor performance records need to be appraised with greater
precision in a much more comprehensive, detailed way   The scope
and method of the feasibility study may be quite different for
such projects, since it must substantiate the investment decision
after elaborating on company weaknesses. In a sense, the DFC
must be an advocate for such subprojects: this suggests a more
issues-oriented approach, quite removed from the existing
didactic, factual nature of feasibility studies. An objective
company assessment could lead quite logically to a discussion of
corrective measures and contingency plans which could be provided
for in subloan conditionality.
9.        Financial plans as designed by the DFCs often proved to be
onerous and inflexible because they were based on theoretical, best-case
subproject completion scenarios and closely circumscribed cash flows.4/
When less-than-optimum results occurred-and every subproject experienced
delays (ranging from two months to two-and-one-half years)-problems
quickly developed. Considering the scale and complexity of many projects,
it is surprising to note that financial plans contained no or insignificant
funding for contingencies, which could have cushioned the company from the
costs of delays: this is all the more surprising given that the effects of
most exogenous constraints were well-established when financial plans were
defined. Subloan terms, which were based on the financial plan, were
corsequently fairly demanding: grace periods averaged two years, subloan
maturities averaged seven years, and level-in-nominal-terms loan repayment
schedules exacted high effective amortization in the initial stages of
subject execution. All these factors have created liquidity problems of
varying magnitudes for 2096-EC subprojects.
Recommendations: Financing plans--especially for large, complex
projects--will be more realistic if they are based on feasibility
studies that more accurately reflect the factors and forces that
will/may affect the proposed investment (see points 6,7,8 and 10
of this Annex). Additionally, appropriate physical and price
contingency allowances should be included in the financing plan
and subloan grace periods and maturities should be based on the
life of assets that are financed. Amortization schedules should
approximate level-in-real-terms subloan repayment.
4/ This latter point was a function of over-estimated debt coverage
capacity, unrealistic implementation and capacity utilization schedules,
and oversights relating to supply and demand constraints as detailed
elsewhere in this report.



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
10.       The content, organization and presentation of DFC feasibility
studies has improved over the course of the past three World Bank DFC loans
to Ecuador. Most include a description of the company, its shareholders,
the proposed project (including details of capital equipment and process
technology), and a financial analysis (including projected profit and loss
statements, breakeven analysis, cost analysis, cash flow and debt coverage
ratios). Internal and economic rates of return are also computed. A
market study based on statistics supplied by the Central Bank (population,
per capita income, sectoral import and export data, etc.) establishes
product demand forecasts and product marketing and distribution systems are
usually briefly outlined.
11.       Feasibility studies, however, could be further improved.
Financial and market projections, for example, are sometimes misleading.
Product quality, consumer tastes, the nature of competition and Ecuador's
trade policies are rarely considered in market studies. Debt service
coverage ratios often do not cover full debt service costs--only the
proposed 2096-EC credit costs--and thus suggest a greater capacity to repay
than may actually be the case. Moreover, the financial data seems to
emphasize repayment capacity rather than outlining as well the long-term
financial structure of the recipient company: pro forma balance sheets are
the exception, not the rule.
Recommendation:  Feasibility studies should contain pro forma
balance sheets to direct more attention to the subloan
recipient's long-term financial structure and viability. Debt
coverage ratios and cash flow projections should reflect all
liabilities and reasonable assumptions regarding accounts
receivable and accounts payable financing. In a more general
sense, subproject feasibility studies would be much improved if
they provided a contextual backdrop, if they introduced dynamism
through sensitivity analyses, and if they raised issues and
suggested contingency plans.
12.       High domestic inflation has created problems for companies that
want financial statements to reflect the true value of assets and
liabilities, but little direction has been given by either the
Superintendent of Companies or the accounting profession.5/ Feasibility
studies and ex post reports have suffered grave distortions due to this
factor, especially with respect to prolections and comparison of ex ante an
ex post after figures.  Values are often nominal in feasibility studies, or
at least it is assumed so since no qualifying information is supplied.
Product demand and supply extrapolations and Drojections are therefore ofte
overstated, which can cause an unviable subproject to appear viable. As
well, assumptions used as a basis for forecasting in feasibility studies ar
not defined.
5/ Although the Superintendent of Comnanies has issued guidelines on
revaluation of fixed assets.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
Recommendations: Clearly stated treatment of values in
feasibility studies, ex post SDS forms and related materials
should be adopted by the DFCs.  Sales figures, costs, assets and
liabilities should be expressed in either constant or real terms.
A footnote explaining the types of conversion factors utilized
should be included in every evaluation.  Concrete measures-such
as production in terms of units--and consistent application of
the same unit of measurement throughout the feasibility study
should be employed where possible. All reports and studies
should be dated, and the assumptions upon which projections are
based should be clearly stated.
13.       Supervision of credits is still a function of collateral
appraisal: few DFC loan officers follow up credits if they are not in
arrears. This policy may ultimately be very costly: timely intervention
may help a company correct a worsening operating condition or avert
problems. New companies--especially those with turnkey technologies--have
greater need for intermittent supervision visits.
Recommendations: Supervision activities should be strengthened.
Particular supervision support needs to be given to new
companies, especially where turnkey plant technology may not be
readily transferred and/or absorbed. Supervision follow-up is
crucial where subloans have been granted on the basis of future
compliance with conditions (i.e. changes in management, equity
cash contributions, restrictions on increased debt levels,
changes in the investment plan, etc.).



ZrA"AL BP1 L Em
Iulabject Psi1la  ad O4tm
2W6-1                                                                               (i(ned *AonIiz  to
0WE                    FD9Jo   a           tA mAum                tW    a    m IZTIW              8J          a1W=               Ierring Jajnrtm)                                       P    I D I I C sy
TMHIMS MO EAE                Ca                  $t,620,996          Purhw     ciurisy  wd             B* e JbCk di alZ mDthn          DhLq dm to:                        1. hadeili    rwort slnd          2. Inadrg pan
FME=                I 9OD,O             quiijt to pvd   blada             Wuld  ad-la ad will out          1. tl ort padt cutw   /             bt dtod, stats *atr                       WO too oaaI
trali ad yarn,                   2.-Y S     tmm n O omLrt.           p'maiud ld                        mlum  arm e    ad In        prdldie suLtr
amplE  Ptr      uttim of a       De eap   ha oqplii or ai          2. md to ftn eu                     imemton or Ma. tom  Ad            antribut*i  of
nwly.oqpudad tutUne Uill.        ipp-nJ Cmty V          m*ijt SoE rAarl r4                                       imm   yl               aiPnZs iutbrom .
mptA1 Im   tfi CU.               3. Cm s i'lx tl   to                inpptlm.
pm:me burk guaruntt tor
In btt t rqui
by 1111..
A3IYIIDSII                    NIZ                52,00,000           h m         rti toinad     ad      brS ct  kliqd bt liz            Delay do to                       1 Mrc tinasiz  pun                2. LttUt  Wides In
rmdtlny to bii am O,             intIe due to inadjute             1. Dirfclot tadali1                 lnWuatt  __d 991 bmiIub  at*
triplW  oapAut ad WIpwtu         u s     rmuinta to hudl.             tsinbr Bed *a:rptibn.            rmpdb  utllittbo  in              Udicatd u.su
padt q-utq.                      di! ftlot tadical  pduction       2. MIamt dli not mrdm               nrt opratig mr, Al 21pbbl of  snotin
p-   d frequent diaw                muttoilnt omto  aar              lillion equty armutioa            this ocepact holto3r
in  aa    t whic was                out ad a iojst                    u3i to ed  0    of off     1        i fluwl  ad
nernuilx iquab.                     laplmtion.                        arrut id litim; ad              gridutton t vbbn
5 bu.1ate dDfrta to                 data  nlns   pat7q             3. &qata aqps     i
robv pFwla  floaisl              ma. lead.                         N  bt    peLd
ad oprmt.r pjrbl.                                                  gobltm.
ACILCA                       00LOt II4 AW4                           Etatl neA fumlm     dub ad         tbpoot delay by  w Jr           Dola  dLe to:                     1 Fibiby obhb                    2. Adibity St*
niimi               51,662,639         rmllirg  il fhr ateel rXr         ad total OJt mm  f   t5.7         1. INort priat                      etbUlisd unratilt y               fidsl p5tt
plat.                            ailUin to 15.9 sllin.               ru eb/pt ./lao     dal14s.       wnrt t plintotu                   uArwtMtmd t   mb
Prution will bl&  in             2. Dimant bettm                     edadtls.                          Dow nasi, c m    e-
hamt 1985.                         P1DE mud amjm dut                                                    tId detw aw"I
mlitotou  fbr lun.                                                 Tadb ad did nat
tnelu& p*Ibm
NUla test.
CMUJA 1 AU mm                  VA                I 515O)             Ccplata shrimp rm's               ItubpoJsot awfVu                                                   I J %Mtm Iuft's apdaim            2. s          t n e   e
vwrtlul lntWgstisn mtetW         *uplatad: mrtoamnw htul to ml. tI, mitttr                                                               or thids PsOW  mm
by lutWmluI  shimp               stiaedl porsotinm. 1bdutr  mte iolm.d  the                                                              Juttfld an 6C%
FroualuW  ard frasig plant.                                                                             mppW*s debt bA*n.                udy uteIvatIon.
J.11A  W.SOUL                 imA                tMO0O               iapLt  esstig dktaripnt           9Apojsat. duldi mu               Delr due to:                      I YC sumt realm  itbilig         2. V        ranrts
plOaM sil rm  aptd                ddulal bD bt ouplotd in          I. nodlay                           studim  rFdusd by                 s d m.ain Seta
Capitol mduw y ad                JIM  KA, S  Ll to b iALi          2. Psdmtal *mm in                   owltnta - tht                            I tn -e
slidpwnt daubUlg cutpu           in Ilae  la tor 19OS: cut            ozsuatitn iwine-ri               qadistoul ad pjblic              tb_  m bhaldlity
volx.                             mrnm ir il e           ft t5 of     toy.                             poicy outut in                    st*  Dit Ib -t
total Wmtunt outo.               3. Iapt prmt              pahdtt. kpnted                              tint reel drz  cn
outtuiapoousiru                  iwrlmlm (FlUq. 'alma,             to inuaid.
dslsya.                           wtold   ad pqent
islinntotlm tiatDtbl)
s)uuld bo tutid Dir
mzditvity via
simulations, amd
I      Irttm  to
ajt-jU  Sad Vel odintl
bo adequate Sillr neouns.  flnmeadl. nwoauudo sal jizojst-sr i  cta in fimorbtlly St* sue not dstaUisd tan in sety lmuwen.



REMX PMt VARL.M
206-E                                                                                (Rknd      xrdLau to
OUMW                   FiIWCTA               YI  Al=i               ia  S1IlE                       SIan ur aUIwe                   hscrsi T Ipnrtum)                                       P   I 1D 1 11    S
PIASom  mVAL                  mImIA               a aopm               Filane a plastic cntrusion        Cqia  apd       tlallation        Urimi.              IF                 C hb xt monitrid this         2. A "S  hinlbili
pSuctm  Lie mbling                caplted in  1wh 1995, six                                             crait. m the bos tht              mtUys no wOJsot
a-tsr pokduction of P.V.C.        mnthm WbdnM    de.                                                      thie outo ahn.                     l      act, debt
piP to wpply Gwlrg                NIM1EA hod no nlslbatit an                                              mistS  tor a epuw                scep  rtis,
dmitic mzbt dnl.                  thn iaqp other Utn a I9fl                                               rqularty Tiht its                 Isplaatln
b6lmnsIstl and a Ya   19                                               debt.                                 e11, output
collueSl paiml -pyrt.                                                                                    pjewtoa.  lb
daml a of 
u    to
dAceor.
mPa                           rIK                 1l ,2 ,0c            Oatrct wd .mb e                   Sapqjct wil be completed           hly din to:                       1. flnare plan a                  2. A loIr pWbta
n    s pb oil niflary             eiz cith bdd  admhuls             I FPive t     deo   tilv  nndalte idth little                           prind and atal
plant poesiwc 12,5W meric          d will out 3la ore  thm             or1guial co oo4inatg              mmg   ibr srrudprobl.             am   pdois W
bt/)wa     irto edible table      pjted.   tbun emu    w               the wbpojact Mrs                  It  mabp'ojlota                   tm  ed ti
mepris.                            ipaS ey hlady or                   asittire algiblitV  dots           muitiviect mate ad                 neqas =e  ith
owarwnat Fio ad aprt                to tie Vorld hM: after              riu  mc   d                      a VAN Per_ In a
intiv.                                M arV   rejectS, EPA=            captition  W  mm                  am mulat.
had to tina am w t&l              pmblm.  nbrt-tau
iSemoiiry.                        llqWdiV Imepritle lq
2. tnfebAtf     puble  of            cut aerras  AM rwltt 
Lapaid aeplbl pas                 in       in cebt.
Cumt cerina  due to:
1 Jnte katla's ldesion
to inranse import soadp
raet by 50.
LA R   UA                    Yu=A                 J 600A)D            Rcpla  obwllte .quip t eal        Sbpoject in stilIl baig            Sibpojwt in pual    e             I SubpJsct is poundin
atnsry ad   ncres fish           Ltsillal.                         pqj)tdc.                             acwEiu  to asfule,
eel prnsljc   uPott  fr                                                                                  uth    tra  flimdg
9,6C  mtrto tba/year to                                                                                   as tid up by difdtim
192,32 etric to/yc.                                                                                      incoli    -   to
Lrwoubh lbttor of
eight.
RZASMI ODII ,555,195                                                  PdsL  LpIrthd tes shie             ta subprojct mmon llns in          elay due to:                      1. Dv libility sb* Sd
injectlon-ild mhine ad            JAIy 19E1, sis onths later        1. Impart pLint                      ecent wpeuion of
renatal quipmnt w as to          Otm pedicted by Ut                     wutb/poaiig dele. dte cmht %s a  xapie
divsminy podut mix ad             ftibtlUV  tu.dy   I all                                                of prqxr vLgnLU     ad
exprd prnductin.                  oter respect, the subprot                                              suppart of wrc crdit
Mt or wrpabad  Kpctatbam.                                              qoatlos.
ALIaI                        CIl         t         i.531.IYl Ph t wadi  capttal lcm                     ITts raw eterials prts wa          DeLe   due to:
fir iaported - satrianl,          af betad after a inderts          1. Ompsv's reuctane In
unhlltU  caipa  tob  rtim          month delay, ad the                 pant corin r olltemrl
hy durt-team  debt bhdn.         cPacy tn mein  prp .red              rights Ailse rwotptatlrg jc
(onip debt sde r                                                                  I  IR
reaitinre with first WC:
CII (Ioidirg 20 of the
cumpaye star.) au
quidcly our stitutd                                                                i
I nadquate &or crmnnwa  fl el,  smronmsic sad yrojactpIctfln dlkts an fGmibiUity a3t*  A  not deta    lahe in seq lg L te.



RfBE   P  VAMAC
2DWIC                                                                               (Mats Jxotzg to
PmeA                   vI,mr               i    An Ea             Ual  arm                        snmoir aniie                   hoin    hmportuar                                      p I . O    I C S1/
LA FAVWlrE                    AMMU               81 n 49g            To rep e a  sttr  lible c         tfle Sib et FoSSIMt      S        *f.t positwg                    1. h ftibiliV  aW, Frpd
rufizry aqtu   t   Esizg          umoti  to aidule ard            FrJaCt.                              by a issilb*  hr IA
outIpS 9h   to mqtre              Athh cat estint.                                                      h        to m a exd t-fal
ddi trby hr po ni  ai                                                                                  study. FInAuR ashid
eaoealiq  pbn d.l                                                                                      FHO wrd ard  ided
P,oductas.                                                                                             malimJu       can ptittn.
pSuie FIfcY fens tim
aid/or iwnawmtdc
cad tiom.
USEA                         CUic               83,52,.              lhplaa  obnolata plyvcod plant   S9prWect in t%.5 yan bhdird       blj  due tt                       I-  t o rtdus mtuqjt'a            2. kau frqmnt ad
FlAYS       r          .,s6,c4          matdraiy aid quipnt with          mIOda, totl cot hn  wei          I . Fin-nth daL  tiLe UC             pbln  a ed  free          a       eCalf    'T
DM atabet-tln-art hatnaz         than tipS  (t.S5 WUIv to             appliat hf  Yorld 1              lack of captle,                   aipstafon in tin
airm frho  lmah                   24.3 oilc), ad pF  tn               ceptfa  to aix -cspaq            fullMti ea_      t.  DB           1itlal at_ of
sNiUUturer.                      ca opatit  at 31 of                    aure, malUG                    Tbud Bak ap1pmial uatpvt tPl-
caplt (hsaai toa  oat               l.obttm atn   mest,               rs, *im riqut                    twafd crli 1
cqatW). OpIn                b       ad aarS       1 boat              further manc at                    lpd cadMatb
dempromal  flqu4izd,  AII           bW5ti  ar teen? to                henw'. anwamett,i   emucoal   t aLas
dslirg with pttfrnio  5             Si  iuclC cpitl                    tiudd  tht atqe tcd be toma  ac r
is, mturala sippy plm,bm            conrIatim.                        lain to atrowlin                 .aprt ghr timly
ant ftn  ftas dafflagtir         2. Iaport poit oatknd./po-        r      K     ad tlst trn             n n   eb       ,
in stanal  itn.                     af"  dSls.                              n ifprtas of the            lt amid fn 1   r
3. ISi of lePl bPAsICta             ntpujst aid tin pmmn             imclfdel in la"
Fleti   oealt orna  aid              wird Ot m r inp)rtattt or    d       1OE - mentor          e         nt1meafty.
&iaeue apttal nrs in btof          caeral, chie.                      aaPrtd  the fauna.
nelatinti! vith ahurelolder.     Ctat Paoam  dun to:
aid Pt.                          1. bmletont
2. PftaprA:  interat
3. Ptor NAim_t Stains
9A1NISU                      CUN                 M2,98),             ?bws  6q0 tota ecat of pi           su ailpo La prcmeUlf           Capa  dacidS to datbl             I * Md &Aitjct hn btr
FIMA                81,694372           aI stretfa dll, prt or a         me etOjn :  pIn plantattc         cutpe c' alerlir  plan  fitn         plad  *rd   aaoutd
muniD A             J1 l.CO.3           massiw 50 hlctea, 12-jar          rdi   i cin   jmr ehSd of        *W-w a tat tUVq eaid                 inmrtJ     to otn higt
854 milfUn pn  CU               rs*abls hifh auld hip              pnemto tWi.e th  ieaus in            rrndond atmAdaa.
agoi-tMtry poja  laiq             ht tinc arter bsnrtlr            98546 thmmfat Aill i               WCa, lawr, te  not
dwlcpdh In tmno9s Am              mmo hiatt In l9M. Oamp           hVansatd.                            mpwled atprojet
bdnin                            eumtly fn tight adh                                                       tnteLr  arn_a Could
quam  (2l86.E lam  in                                                 probiby bon  boe wad
anr.ar) becaumi ralucnit to                                           by mS.fyizrg orf0nalI
uN haed bArntW l        ta                                            finstal plan.
fbr 9 VP   inen lt
altrAnalt mel fisnatLe.
elt razefw lefl tnm".
PAPAUSA IlCIOIAL                                   ,082 A)           Pbardn. sdinq and                Us subpuject iL 2.5 Inn           Cspaq bol tcn _t in               i. fnitillV SaUb  d44 not
quipat utlieU plat to           bhab  Sin dula:  eeab ham          9  dej to &it ett                  ta  into scuna   emi, in
prd   elat pFpr  r Impor         ri   f thS 9NU1im to bifntansttmral pie of payr                       dstie pyar taoIt7
vahtititifoo   ruplam            814.75  iliot, ard male           bid born  alirg fbh mr  eer         eRd by du4P IMyot                              ., a
blam fh- prit ceape'.            aiAiftintly rtaduu. Plmt  fnoAbfie to eeptr Yfth                    2. ledar  anS  apq to                b3
ar CLl fbr Imported no             -l  btw   oprt1ar but           dq p pemrtls rinetd tW              wit:h frm retined                              a 
matemf.al.                       bfjt1 lvearep  VentwAs ala-       learnt cihrt-las tlzwiq             sMug flAnMtfg to-
41az.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a/ cyamtbia.                     thr fra  asat, jeoparciL prt-ten je u        m   tt:  we
faidcal staztura  md 4abt           415 not Setsj an flmzr4a
aezfleirg mpicitt. homn             altenativ.
mftrmflta al acr'atd sa
rj Inaiqikta an4or mramas floade, inrmommnlm sad pjooat-epaifte Ste in Vesinibli1 ty ab am mat detAilSd tors In auzy hanten.



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
USS Million
IBRD FY and Quarter Ending                   By Quarter       Cumulative
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                       25.0
December 31, 1986                        25.0
March 31, 1987                            0.5
June 30, 1987                             0.8             51.3
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                        2.2
December 31, 1987                         2.3
March 31, 1988                            2.6
June 30, 1988                             3.3             61.7
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                        3.5
December 31, 1988                         3.9
March 31, 1989                            4.2
June 30, 1989                             4.7             78.5
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                        5.2
December 31, 1989                         4.6
March 31, 1990                            3.8
June 30, 1990                             3.3             94.9
FY 1991 
September 30, 1990                        3.3
December 31, 1990                         2.9
March 31, 1991                            2.5
June 30, 1992                             2.3            105.9
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                        2.2
December 31, 1991                         1.8
March 31, 1992                            1.4
June 30, 1992                             1.1            112.4
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                        0.9
December 31, 1992                         0.8
March 31, 1993                            0.6
June 30, 1993                             0.3            115.0
February 1986
LCPIf



RCUADas
IDOMIUL  nIVAWB PRWKCT
1Tm  AnD iDSUIAL sUc:a POLICy fnim
Pollc" Area                               Medium-Ta   Objectives                                      Recet Actlons Take.
A.  Export Incentives                 Adjustment of exchange rate to maintaIn real level          Kultiple official exchange rates formally
and unification of exchange rates.                          unified Navenber 1985; exchange rate adjusted
to maintain real level January 1986.
B.  Industrial Incentives             Streamlining of industrial incentives to encourage          New regulations for Industrial Incentive law
manufacturing exports, note extensive use of                issued Ia January 1985 to (i) grant tax bne-
domeetic resources and a better ume of installed            fits based on export performance; (ii) reduce
industrial capecity.                                        income tax exonerations for vectors vitb
excess capacity; and (iii) provide for pro-
gressive reduction and time limitatioo  on
tariff exonerationa for rev materials and                      LB
intermediate products.                                         Li
C.  Import Restrictions               Elimination of diatortions in the allocation of             1.  Re_oval In March 1985 of the import pro-
resourcea caused by quantitative restrictions.                  hibitions introduced io 1982.
2. Removal of about 20 percent of the
remaining import prohibitions in January
1986.
3. Lifting of import licensing requirements
for about 50 industrial inputs in
February 1986.
D. Tariff Reform                      Reduction of tsriff levels on manufactured pro-             A revised Import tariff structure has been
ducts which encouraged production for the dometic           adopted.  It reduces import tariff peaks
market and attracted resources to manufacturing,            from a maxisua of 220 percent to 100 percent
thereby discriminating against agriculture and              (except for a few items), and reducee tariff             1
diecouraging exports.  Reduction of tariff disper-          dispersion so that over 75 percent of como-   
sion which discriminated against many types of              dities have tatiffs of 70 percent or less.               h
manufacturing activities hindering efficient                Average tariffs and tariff dispersion have
resource allocation.                                        been reduced by about 30 percent and 50 per-
cent, respectively.



rouff Am                                                                      OKod Aetbm IM=                                 b-        m- fts,
A. Itermt hte Lewis              Internit ate iihi& are ruzket        or    Incruin La off    lnteut  tmi at the           ?Liztewm    of (1) pwitive Intemt
pwmitive In real tern to mobilIrI          ed of 1984 and te introittsn of erket-        rates es lm g-te    Iitrial o,  md
medzM  sd to enrz pff d client            bo     aes an lap domttIm  (aoer au            (U) 411iate  levels of dt.ic
zrmoum allncatlia .                       ulUttoiumx) artifice. of depit.                fLhinul z_ nzm rbiLzatiini.
*Ageural lnIiU rte uaIlfad aid
A1i   mm claely with krutrlal rate.
Officul interet rm    ea at puitive
S. Intermt Rate VariabIty        Proit lardBnr ad borr5u to avoid          In &,.t 1985 the Ovrnryit issued noNom.
ma 1ag-Tw  lm               tin rigs of find intest rate  in           leIglation to allow low-tem fUinill
emvrumnt of variable rates of              intrummatt  to urry varlable rio to be.
inflatilo.                                eliete  at fra*ocies deteta ld  by thie
Iutazy BSusd.   qomY rCalAtim  hme                                                                0%
btm i smed by tdm   ay -azdrLim to
e thm variable rate syst  effective for
the iustrlal mctor.
C. PhumiLl OmiLtimn of           StreBnthrni    the finmial canmition of    Revisim in thmt 1985 of thm !.iii   and       IbM.
Ramia1 ie.tiu1am             flrnmm l intituitm.                       Ibutery L1. to (1) shorm  the minim. tem
of mrtifiat   of dpmits  iaI by private
fiermnw; (it) incrase debt/ety limts
of f1imvUl iLmtitutlam frm 10:1 to 15:1,
hLt rqudrlrg thm  tablhi  od rof
for d tful    Iu  equal to 10 peramit of
1mm; ad (1ii) e       the expae llits
of the finiel  iztitntiom.
0
o4



- 57 -
ANNEX g
Page I of 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Monitoring of Project Implementation
The Bank, while monitoring the fulfillment of project objectives,
will pay special attention to the following indicators:
(i) Measures taken by Government to continue to eliminate import
prohibitions (para. 1.20) and measures to further liberalize
trade;
(ii) The financial condition of the financieras and their right to
participate in the loan measured by their:
- Debt/equity ratios
- Current ratios
- Interest coverage ratios
- Exposure on major loans and investments to a
single firm or group
- capital increases for purposes of participating.
(iii) Levels of operating expenses, provisions for doubtful accounts
and real rates of return on equity in order to review the
adequacy of the financial spread given to financial
intermediaries;
(iv) Compliance by CFN and the Government with the Plan of Action to
strengthen CFN (Annex 3, para. 15);
(v) Nominal interest rates set from time to time by the Monetary
Board and market rates on Certificados de Deposito and Polizas
de Acumulacion and their effective levels in real terms;
(vi) The rate at which new jobs are expected to be created under
subprojects financed by the loan; and
(vii) The adequacy of the revenues from the difference between the
Bank's lending rates (plus the Central Bank's fee) and the
rates charged to financial intermediaries to cover the foreign
exchange risk on the credit component of the Bank loan.



- 58 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Expected Levels of Indicators Under the Project
1985     1986      1987     1988
Financieras:
(1)  Debt/equitY ratios                15/1      14/1     13/1      12/1
(ii)  Current ratios                     1.0+      1.0+     1.0+      1.0+
(iii)  Interest coverage ratios           1.10      1.12     1.14      1.15
(iv)  Exposure limits(Z of equity)    40.0        35.0     30.0      25.0
Estimate of number of jobs created        -      12,500   13,500       -
Subproject commitments(US$ million)       -        24.0     25.5       -
Subproject disbursements(USS million)   -           -        4.5      10.2
Loan disbursements(US$ million)           -        50.0      4.5      10.2



- 59 -
ANNEX 10
ECIJADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   The Sector
A.1 Tariffs - Actual and Proposed
A.2 Arancel de Importacion, Decreto Ley No. 1532. 28 de enero de 1986
A.3  Programa de Levantamiento de Prohibiciones de Importacion
A.4 Presupuestos Economicos - 1984/85
A.5 Technical Elements for the Structuring of Industrial Incentives
in Ecuador, Boston University
A.6 Junta Monetaria - Regulations on Interest Rate Policy
B.   The Project
B.1 Draft Convenio de Mutuo
B.2 File on Technical Assistance for Superintendent of Banks
B.3 File on Technical Assistance for Superintendent of Companies
B.4 UNDP Project Document on Training for Financieras
B.5 Analysis of Financial Condition of Financieras and of Interest
Rate Spreads
B.6 Financial Statements of Financieras 1980-1984
B.7 Information oan CFN Required by the World Bank



- 60 -
ANNEX 11
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Schedule of Project Implementation
Timetable
Import Component
Disbursement                                July 1 - December 31, 1986
(Bidding documents would be prepared
for contracts over US$5 million by
Government agencies-no private procurement
contract is expected to exceed USS5 million)
Credit Component
Expected commitment period for
subprojects                               July 1986 - June 30, 1988
Technical Assistance
Superintendency of Banks
Engaging consultants                              June 30, 1986
(by Superintendency of Banks)
Consulting assignment                    July 1, 1986 - June 30, 1988
Superintendency of Companies
Engaging consultants                               May 31, 1986
(by Superintendency of Companies)
Consulting assignment                    June 1, 1986 - May 31, 1988
Central Bank
Engaging technical specialists                      June 30, 1986
(by Central Bank)
Consulting assignment                    July 1, 1986 - June 30, 1987
Association of Development Banks
Engaging consultants                                 June 30, 1986
(by Association of Development Banks)
Consulting assignment                    July 1 - December 31, 1986



Son Loierrzo
Alacarrs              oraroe  ept
Mu,ise C0l
,Son Gregorio
So JsedeQurninde
-             ..4~~~Lo9o Agria
lmdepe;~encia            Lo    c
Crn               Sonto Oomi,ga                        toUU'                                                              Shsjud
Son Sebastian del Co aT         Eic6
Ilar                                                                                                    Frcricsco da. OreIloanj
'A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
Bl eCohya de \r..
La C  eto                                       . I- Bozp
Moni   Sa.Inqo                                                      wercece ad                                              /



Pto de Cayo ;N                                                                                                    0"                 -
-    rv                                                                                           rU y         PASTAZA
Mt958 wz >sJarar~  :' j a rjua|                  - a
4obo ~ ~                           6                     j       /
Sol wS  ~~~~~~~ 4    ~~~   ~~  ji7>                                                          0            f M                                                                    |~~C40  ,I
L5Iicbe         tiodor~, 
La,L,' A'L' L
/ P'ogresc
ploa                                                      C  A h       R          Amaluso        I
Pcso'la                   Nranjal                            OA    (           OF ,   
) /  BoSouoloseo  0ECU ADOR
Ternguel ,                Est. Cunrmb1e                   n   
Tendoles                    A Z UAY   Cunbe  bs7C                Irsdonzo   :                              PRIMARY  ROADS
/ <   Glron,  8     o ~         |                                          Paved
MACHALA    /       5                   f     I       ;                                                         Gravel
soo o  N. Sta Isabe,,,                 /                                                       SECONDARY  ROADS
-ut ofr  Paved
N    Huaquillas  %Src R           osao            OA  Gwloqu.zo                                                         Gravel
\  k i   (La Avan'q/                                                                                        - -I  Rairoods
Soracay IL.                              Pdr
.:rV,l l~~~~ios  1                  9               t o ~   13deoo /                                            ePorts
t   t Rio oNegro,  .                                                                      Rivers
/   aGuorJreX   |    l I          (1    ~                                                    PHYSICAL REGIONS
]? \,PuyonN5L,  ,      =    aneczos    {|            ;  2                '                                        C Costo
S.erra
*                         ("%..4.I         I Alamor   %e1plcru                                                                                          Oriente
.zodores  ~~~~   /     ~    ~         flo    OLJA        ,
-              Celdores4        . -  i J A   J                  `ZAMORA                                                        Provincial Boundaries
Gonznarria                  Z z   A                                                            Internotional Boundaries
fZapallllo p~~ E    ;  -      w   Wlo~ngono               1%
? _ _ - _ _ _ _ _-  ZNum b c lo
IN, -c .s r mw DrMoY  h  r*e wyv Ea s Itw Ic   F*Y !  cWcf o
'\~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w '                       0 IrXs are Is      N*hs  Y     t e"  rJ oft we VW  9j,   re so* 1_
\ y- re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e wgi, spaws J,.3 tn errflary Y, ri, andrse cr &rmpeww of t_Jh b "                        CD
<                                               1            D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zurmba                                                      ,                           c4






