Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
( A2 ,'C)3& 4
Report No. P-4559-CAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.5 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED SFA (SJF) CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
June 4, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  CFA franc
US$1.00          =  CFAF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS ANtD ACRONYIS
Local Organizations
ACADOP                   Rural Development Agency in Ouham Pende
ADECAF                   Rural Development Agency in the Coffee Zone
CAISTAB                  Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund
GIR                      Groupement d'Interets Ruraux
(Informal Farmers Group)
HCSE                     High Commission for State Enterprises
MEFP                     Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
MRD                      Ministry of Rural Development
PRODEROM                 Rural Development Project in Ombella M'Poko
SCAT                     Central African Tobacco Company
SOCADA                   Rural Development Agency in the Cotton Zone
(Societe centrafricaine de developpement agricole)
SSP                      State Secretariat for Planning
Foreign Organizations
ADB                      African Development Bank
BADEA                    Banque Arabe pour le D6veloppement de l'Afrique
BDEAC                    Banque de Developpement des Etats d'Afrique
Centrale
CCCE                     Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (France)
CFDT                     Compagnie Francaise des Textiles
FAC                      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FED                      Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GTZ                      Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
IFAD                     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
OECF                     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
UNDP                     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
SOCADA: November 1 - October 31



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY ...........................................
PART I - THE ECONOMY  .......sss**sss****O*ss****sss**se.              1
PART II - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR .... ....... ..............          2
Potential and Constraints .............. o......*...             2
Government Policy .........                                      3
Sector Adjustment Program . ..a.....................................  4
PART III - THE COTTON SECTOR .......................... .             4
Background .......... o..................................        4
Financial Crisis ........ ................ ......*....           5
The Need for Adjustment ....o........................            6
PART IV - THE COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ..o .........          8
Origin * *...............*...  *.........ss.........             8
Objective and Content .................. ........... 5000        9
Incentive Reform   * .............................**            10
Margin for Intermediate Costs *          ...................  10
Producer Incentives           ............................   11
Cotton Fund ....       ..................................    13
Institutional Reform ..................*   .............        13
Commercial Activities ...*sO**.......... ..... ...           14
Rural Development Activities ...... ...............          14
SOCADA During the Transition .....................           15
Technical Assistauce         ........................... ...    17
Preparation of Follow-up Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Program ....       ..................*......      17
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used bv ;-nts only In the performance
of their of liduties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsos  't World Bank authorition.



PART V - THE PROPOSED CREDITS .........................         18
Financing ..........................                       18
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release .............      18
Management and Administration .....     ..................  21
Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing.      21
Benefits, Social and Fiscal Impact and Risks ........      22
PART VI -  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ..... ....................     25
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION *      ..............................  26
ANNEXES
°.  Key Macro Economic Indicators
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations
°--. Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
IV. Matrix of Adjustment Measures for the Emergency Program
V.   Statement of Sectoral Polic7, including the Monitorable Action Program
MAP: IBRD 20613



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Credit Summry
Borrower:                 Central African Republic (CAR)
Amount:                   IDA - US$15.0 million equivalent on standard terms
SFA - Special Joint Financing (SJF) for a total
amount of US$8.0 million equivalent, including:
- SJF Saudi Arabia through the Saudi Fund (Rials
9.0 million or about US$2.0 million equivalent).
- SJF Japan (Yens 825 million or about US$6.0
million equivalent) of which:
. Credit through OECF Yens 600 million
. Grant (to be administered by IDA)
Yens 225 million.
Description:              The Credits would support the Government's
adjustment program for the cotton sector which
aims at reducing the inefficiencies of the cotton
industry and paving the way for a broader based
agricultural development strategy in heretofore
cotton areas. Improved efficiency will be
attained by a program of reforms in the incentive
and institutional framevork for cotton production.
This program is described in the Government
Statement of Sectoral Policy which contains
specific, dated, monitorable actions
(Annex V).
The reform of the incentive system provides for
the cotton processing industry to operate within a
schedule of pre-determined margins ("bar&me"), for
the elimination of input subsidies (already
underway), for the introduction of a more flexible
producer pricing system that will allow cotton
production to respond to world price changes, for
the payment of an export subsidy to offset the
impact of exchange rate distortions and for the
creation of a Cotton Fund managed by the cotton
industry.
By switching cotton collection, processing and
marketing from public to private sector
management, the institutional reform aims at



- ii -
minimizing intermediate costs and reducing the
share of fixed costs in the total, thereby
allowing the industry to cope better with
production fluctuations. In parallel, by
improving the effectiveness of farmers' support
services and broadening the scope of their
activities to encompass the entire farming system,
the institutional reform aims at strengthening the
capacity of support services to alleviate
productivity bottlenecks at farm level and
identify crop diversification possibilities.
The adjustment program will extend over three
years and be supported by follow-up adjustment
credits.
Benefits
and Risks:                The Credits in support of the Cotton Sector
Adjustment Program will allow one of the more
important productive sectors of the CAR economy to
withstand the crisis caused by depressed commodity
markets and exchange rate distortions. At the
same time, by halving the intermediate costs of
cotton purchase, processing and marketing, and by
adopting an economically more efficient
market-based approach to producer pricing and
industrial processing, the program will allow the
CAR to regain its comparative advantage in cotton
production.
The main risks associated with the proposed
operation are the uncertainty of world prices for
cotton, the possibility that Government delays
payment of budgetary subsidies to the sector, and
a weaker than expected private sector interest in
operating the ginneries.
Estimated
Disburser,nts:            The Credits would be disbursed in three tranches
against imports except for US$1 million which
would be disbursed against specific items: the
first tranche of US$8 million dollars equivalent,
upon effectiveness, the second and third, of US$7
million equivalent, upon satisfactory
implementation of the program. Performance
reviews would be carried out in October 1987 and
March 1988.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT OF SDR 11.5 MILLION AND SPECIAL JOINT FINANCTNG
THROUGH THE AFRICAN FACILITY OF SDR 6.2 MILLION TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 11.5 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) and
Special Joint Financing of SDR 6.2 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
through the African Facility (SFA), established by resolution number IDA
85-1 of May 21, 1985, on standard IDA terms to the Central African Republic
to support the Government's Cotton Sector Adjustment Program.
PART 1. THE ECONOMY
2.        The CAR, a landlocked country of 623,000 km2 in the heart of
Africa, has a population of 2.6 million growing at an annual rate of 2.5%
and a low population density of 4 inhabitants per square kilometer. Per
capita income is estimated at US$270 (1985). Agriculture, including
forestry, is the mainstay of the economy (41% of GDP in 1984) and occupies
four fifths of the population. Mining and manufacturing (11%), utilities
and construction (4%), and services (44%) account for the balance.
3.        Serious mismanagement of the economy in the 1970s resulted in a
decline of output and incomes per capita between 1978 and 1982. Since
1981, substantial progress has been made toward economic and financial
adjustment with the implementation of appropriate supply-side and demand
management policies. More remunerative producer prices for coffee and
cotton, improvement in the performance of the main rural development agency
(SOCADA), the reduction of government intervention in food crop marketing,
and a decrease in diamond export taxation together with a decrease of
Imports in real terms, allowed the current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) to increase only to 15.8% of GDP in 1986, from an
average of approximately 15% during 1983-85, despite the high level of net
service payments and a decline in the export prices of coffee and cotton.
In addition, the Government's fiscal position improved significantly, from
a deficit of 3.4% of GDP in 1983 to 1.2% in 1985.
4.        Despite the resumption of economic growth at an average annual
rate of 2.9% during the period 1982-85, the CAR is still constrained by a
number of major structural problems which impede an increase in GDP per
capita and the achievement of a sustainable external position. These
problems include weaknesses in economic planning and procedures, poor
performance in revenue collection, an excessive civil service wage bill
compared with Government revenue, inefficiencies in the public service and
parastatal enterprises, a low level of participation of the private sector
in economic a :ivity, an agricultural policy which provides inadequate



support services and distorts market signals, and an education system
ill-adapted to the social and economic needs of the country. To address
these problems, the Government prepared a comprehensive program of
adjustment, which was supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL)
in 1986.
5.        CAR has benefitted from a series of IMF programs, two one-year
stand-bys in 1983 and 1984, and an 18-month stand-by covering July 1985 -
December 1986. The latter program could not be brought to completion due
to the combination of adverse exogenous factors and slippages in program
implementation. To remedy the situation a CAR delegation came to
Washington in December 1986 to discuss the 1987 Government budget. At the
same time a Policy Framework Paper was discussed for a proposed SAF Credit.
This was followed by an IMF mission in March 1987, during which agreement
on a new program was reached and negotiations for a SAF Credit were
concluded.
6.        Following successful completion of the IMF visit, an IDA mission
visited CAR in April 1987 to review progress of the SAL program. It found
that implementation of the program was satisfactory. Progress had been
made in all areas and considerable political will had been exercised by the
authorities in executing crucial components of the program. Slippages in
program implementation were essentially due to the limited capacity of the
administration to handle all measures simultaneously. The second tranche
was released in May 1987.
PART II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Potential and Constraints
7.        CAR's agriculture is relatively well diversified.  Food crops and
livestock each contribute more than a third of agricultural value added.
Cotton, coffee and, to a more limited extent, tobacco are an important
source of cash income for farmers. Together with timber, they account for
60Z of total foreign exchange earnings (1984).
8.        The country's varied ecological base accounts for the diversity
of agriculture. Three main ecological zones can be distinguished:
(a) The forest zone in the Southwest constitutes a rich and under
exploited reserve of timber. Coffee is the main cash crop but
the area is also suited for cocoa, oil palm and pepper. Food
crops include yams. plantains and cassava;



- 3 -
(b) The Savanna zone is well suited for annual food :rops, including
from South to North cassava, maize, sorghum and niillet. Cotton
is the main cash crop. High quality tobacco is grown in the
South near the forest zone; and
(c) The ranching zone in the East offers a good potential for
cultivation and livestock but is sparsely inhabited.
9.        The country's production potential is considerable, but marketing
constraints are severe. The small size of the urban population with
relatively low incomes offers only a limited domestic market for food and
livestock products and the country's landlocked position substantially
raises transportation costs and reduces the CAR's export competitiveness.
10.       Low competitiveness is aggravated by the US dollar's slide
against the CFA Franc; and by the CFA strength vis-a-vis the parallel rate
of the Zaire currency. At today's exchange rate, almost none of CAR's
export products are competitive: the cotton sector incurs very large
losses; the coffee sector, traditionally the main source of Government
revenue, is for the first time in deficit; the timber sector is in
difficulty; tobacco production had to be abandoned except for high quality
tobacco for cigar wrapping; and the countrv's palm oil production is being
jeopardized by illegal imports from Zaire.
Government Policy
11.       Government policy toward agriculture has greatly improved since
1981, when significant efforts were made to increase the competitiveness of
the country's major exports, through investments to rehabilitate th%. road
network, and donor-funded projects supporting productivity increases in
cotton, coffee and livestock. Consistent with the project approach,
Government policy was to assign to regionally based agencies the
responsibility for implementing development activities. ADECAP and SOCADA
became executing agencies for integrated rural development in the coffee
and cotton zones respectively. Besides support for agricultural
production, they were called upon to take on increasingly larger
responsibilities in building roads, digging wells, and undertaking various
other public functions at Government request. The responsibilities of the
Ministry of kural Development (MRD) were limited to planning, coordination
and supervision. However, due to an almost total lack of means and skilled
personnel, it was unable to perform these tasks. In practice, the Planning
Ministry played the main coordination role.
12.       While Government recently liberalized the pricing and marketing
of food crops, its pricing system for cotton and coffee remains
unsatisfactory. The system is one of guaranteed producer prices which does
not provide an *dequate link between internal prices and world market
conditions. While a mechanism had been set up to support producer prices,
it ceased to be operational. CAISTAB, which was meant to operate a



-4-
stabilization fund, but was largely used as a source of general revenue,
now has no reserve and currently no revenues. Government has therefore
been unable to cope with the recent large swings in commod4ty prices and
exchange rates.
Sector Adjustment Program
13.       Under the SAL, Government initiated a program of adjustment for
the agriculture sector, including liberalization of food crop pricing and
marketing, increased coffee prices, transparency of CAISTAB accounts,
reduced taxation in the timber sector, and cost-reducing measures in the
cotton sector. With technical assistance from the Bank, it is preparing a
more comprehensive program of sectoral reforms aimed at deepening the
adjustment started under the SAL by addresezng the fundamental issues
facing the sector, most notably:
(a) inadequate capability for sectoral planning and coordination;
(b)  the excessive size of the public sector in agricul.ure; and
(c) the inadequate pricing system for export crops.
14.       The program will have two broad components.  First, an
institutional one, including the redefinition of the role of the MRD and
the regional development agencies, and related reorganization and staff
reductions. Second, an incentive reform component mainly centered on the
cotton and coffee sectors. The program wfll be launched in two phases.
Phase A will focus on the cotton sector in which adjustment is most
urgently needed since it has become an unsustainable burden on public
sector resources that threatens the cruntry's overall adjustment effort.
Phase B will further the process of adjustment in the cotton sector,
address structural issues in other sectors, especially coffee, and
implement MRD's reorganization.
PART III. THE COTTON SECTOR
Background
15.       In numbers of producers, cotton is the most important cash crop.
In 1984, one third of the population or 160,000 farm families were cotton
growers. The importance of cotton incomes on the very thin cash economy of
the CAR is significant. An on-going OED study of cotton projects in West
Africa indicates that cotton has been a much stronger motor for development
than anticipated, both through the multiplier effect of cotton income on
the economies, and through technology transfer to farmers.
16.       The cotton sector is organized along the same institutional
arrangement that prevails in twelve other West African Francophone
countries where it has led to dramatic production increases. There is a



-5-
complete integration of all activities related to cotton: research,
provision of inputs, extension, processing and marketing. In CAR, all
these activities are carried out by a national agency, SOCADA, with CFDT
("Compagnie Francaise des Fibres Textiles") participation in capital and
technical assistance.
17.       Unlike in most other countries, cotton production in the CAR was
disrupted by the period of economic mismanagement of the 1970s. During
that time cotton production fell by more than 50% as a result of area and
yield declines. The decline was caused by a rapid deterioration of applied
research and extension services, a significant drop of real producer
prices, inefficient operations and unreliable purchases by the cotton
marketing agency. Production reached a record low in 1981/82 with 17,000
tons.
18.       To reverse the decline, in 1982 the Government sought technical
and financial assistance from the Bank and other donors for a rural
development project in the cotton zone (Cr. 1376-CA) to rehabilitate
SOCADA's facilities and equipment, rebuild its managerial and operational
capacity, and improve the socio-economic infrastructure in the cotton area.
In parallel, the cotton producer price was increased (it doubled between
1980 and 1985) while input subsidies were reduced. As a result, cotton
production increased to a peak of 46,300 tons in 1984/1985, and yields
increased from 276 kg/ha (1981/82) to 572 kg/ha in 1984/85. Production and
yields dropped back in 1985/86 to 35,000 tons and 426 kg/ha probably due to
climatic factors.
Financial Crisis
19.       While the sector was undergoing this dramatic recovery, it was
hit by the sudden decline in international cotton prices which went from
745 CFAF/kg in January 1985 to a low of 265 CFAF/kg in August 1986 (in
April 1987 it had recovered to CFAF 430/kg). The drop was the combined
result of the decline in the U.S. dollar cotton price and the depreciation
of the U.S. dollar relative to the CFAP. With the collapse of the world
market p- ice, SOCADA which had to buy the crop at the guaranteed producer
price of 100 CFAF/kg incurred huge losses which were financed by the local
banks. At the end of November 1986, SOCADA's outstanding credit to the
local banking system amounted to CFAF 8.4 billion (US$27 million), or
approximately 25% of the total credit to the economy.
20.       The magnitude of the cotton crisis is such that it surpasses
Government's financial capacity. The 1987 losses of the cotton agency
alone will amount to 7% of total Government revenue, and if account is
taken of the arrears of the last two campaigns which will fall due in 1987,
SOCADA's deficits will amount to 25% of Government revenue. Even without
taking into account the financial needs of the cotton sub-sector,
Government's financial situation is difficult. Given the social and



-6-
political Importance of the cotton sector, Government is under pressure to
fund SOCADA with resources needed for other priority economic sectors.
Hence, the cotton crisis threatens the overall adjustment and development
process.
The Need for Adjustment
21.       The cotton production system of Francophone West African
countries has considerable strengths that need to be preserved. Systematic
varietal improvement, timely delivery of inputs, and timely purclhase of
output have led to one of the few technological breakthroughs in the lower
rainfall part of Africa. In countries where the system has not been
disrupted, yields increased steadily overtime (e.g. in Burkina from 153
kg/ha in 1961-1966 to 1,221 kg/ha in 1985). The technical strength of the
system is even more apparent when a comparison is made with African
Anglophone countries where yield increases have been significantly lower
(e.g., in 1984, Nigeria 119 kg/ha, Kenya 182 kg/ha, and Malawi 528 kg/ha).
22.       While a technicat success, this production system  has not been
economically efficient. It is dirigiste with production decisions and
marketing operations based more on administrative and political prioritles
than on economic reality. In CAR, the Government, via SOCADA, determines
to a large extent the size and location of the cotton area through the
controlled distribution of seeds and inputs and through the monopoly
purchase of output at a guaranteed producer price.   With increased output
being the primary goal, production has been pushed to areas which were not
agronomically well suited for cotton or which had prohibitive transport
costs. This tendency to increase production at any cost was consistent
with an incentive system that provided for the coverage of SOCADA's losses
via the CAISTAB and that remunerated CFDT on the basis of input and cotton
sales. The steady fall of cotton prices through the summer of 1986,
finally, drew the attention of the Government and of donors to the
weaknesses of a system that fully protected the income of producers and the
cotton company regardless of the sub-sector's capacity to 8enerate that
income. These weaknesses were first addressed under the SAL.
23.       The weaknesses of the production system in the area of incentives
are compcunded by the parastaLal nature of the cotton company. Like other
public sector companies with large means relative to the civil service,
SOCADA was obliged to undertake various activities that were not strictly
part of its original or even official mandate, and was pressured to employ
an excessive number of staff. It became the largest company in the country
employing 1,300 permanent and 1,200 seasonal staff. CFDT participation in
the company also encouraged SOCADA to employ a large number of costly
expatriates. Government guarantee to cover SOCADA's losses without proper
control of expenditures did not encourage cost-consciousness. While that
guarantee arose from SOCADA's obligation to pay an official producer price,
Government was led to subsidize not only farmers, but also SOCADA's



operations including personnel whose salaries are today considerably higher
than those of civil servants. Over time SOCADA has become a technically
relatively competent, politically powerful company, but its costs went out
of control.
24.       The organizational structure of the company also leaves much to
be desired. First, SOCADA is called upon to carry out two types of
activities requiring different management styles and different financing:
on one hand public service activities (research a.nd extension for cotton
and food crops, road maintenance, water development, and promotion of draft
power); and on the other hand commercial activities (input distribution,
and cotton purchase, processing, and export). In general, the bureaucratic
approach prevailed over commercial management.
25.       Second, SOCADA's organizational structure is highly centralized,
with very large means concentrated in Bangui, far from the cotton
production areas, and with very little delegation of authority to field
staff. This extreme centralization of activities poses two major
difficulties: (a) the company's overheads are large, so that variable costs
are only 70% of total production costs, thereby limiting the possiSility of
adjusting production volumes to market conditions; and (b) field staff are
not held accountable for most decisions and financial results at their
level, so that they have no incentive to be efficient or cost-conscious.
This is compounded by the inadequacy of the accounting system which does
not permit disaggregation of costs at factory level or timely monitoring of
expenditures.
26.       Finally, the participation of CFDT in the company has had mixed
results.  CFDT's relationship to SOCADA is two-fold:
(a)  it is a supplier of technical assistance services.  As of January
i, 1987, SOCADA was employing about 20 CIDT experts at an annual
cost of US$4.0 million, including salaries, overheads and fringe
benefits; and
(b) it is a share holder in the company with 25% of the capital.
The existing agreement provides CFDT with a guaranteed (though fluctuating)
income amounting to 1.8% of total sales in addition to the payments it
receives for providing technical assistance personnel. This income is in
part (0.5%) for payment of marketing services provided by an affiliate of
CFDT, the "Compagnie Cotonniere." The balance (1.3%) compensates CFDT for
miscellaneous services whose value to SOCADA is less clear. The agreement
also provides for the company's losses to be covered single-handedly by
Government.
27.       Though expensive (CFDT has de facto monopoly over the provision
of technical assistance), CFDT's technical contribution has been
significant. However, as shareholder and management partner, CFDT's



- 8 -
contribution has been less impressive. SOCADA's management and financial
controls have been inadequate and despite the presence of CFDT at SOCADA,
the cotton agency vda slow in reacting to the price situation.
PART IV. THE COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Origin
28.       Since late 1985, IDA and CCCE, the two main donors of ti
on-going cotton project, have been urging Government to prepare an
adjustment program for the cotton sector. In May 1986, SOCADA presented to
potential donors an emergency program which was subsequently strengthened
by a multidonor mission in June 1986 and further strengthened during SAL
negotiations. The program supported by the SAL contained a number of
politically courageous measures, including:
(a) concentrating the production in the most favorable zones by
reducing the cotton area by 25%, and closing down 3 out of 7
ginneries;
(b) maintaining the nominal producer price at the 1985 season's
level, while eliminating input subsidies over two seasons;
(c) reducing SOCADA's permanent staff from 1,500 to 800 and temporary
staff from 1,200 to 800 over two years and freezing salaries;
(d) privatizing the transport of cotton fiber and reducing the fleet
of SOCADA trucks and staff cars from 228 to 104 vehicles;
(e) improving management and financial controls in line with the
recommendations of the latest audit report; and
(f) undertaking a study of the cotton sector in order to design a
medium-term adjustment program that addresses the structural
weaknesses of the production system.
29.       To deal with increasing deficits resulting from the continuing
decline in prices in the second half of 1986, the Bank hosted at Government
request a meeting of potential donors in Washington in December 1986. With
the exception of BADEA, the cofinanciers of the cotton project were all
represented (i.e. IDA, CCCE, FAC, BDEAC and FED) as well as ADB, the French
Treasury and the IMF. At the meeting, the Government emergency program was
reviewed and further strengthened upon the Bank's insistence that more
cost-compression measures be introduced. The Bank insisted that further
significant reform of the incentive and institutional framework for cotton
production in the CAR would be necessary to restore the economic viability
of the sector and to ensure the sustainability of efficiency improvements;
it also urged Government to promptly hire consultants to undertake the
medium-term study of the cotton sector as agreed under the SAL. The terms



-9-
of reference for the study were discussed and agreed at the meeting and
consultants started work in January 1987. Conclusions of the study were
essential ingredients in the formulation of the package of incentive and
institutional reforms included in the proposed adjustment program.
Objective and Content of the Proposed Cotton Sector Adjustment Program
30.       Adjustment in the cotton sector was initiated in May 1986 in the
context of the emergency program supported by the on-going SAL and a CCCE
Credit. It focuses mainly on immediate cost reduction measures within the
existing price and institutional arrangements. Further cost reductions
require a major restructu-ing of the industry which is the object of the
proposed Credit.
31.       The proposed sector adjustment program aims at reducing the
inefficiencies of the cotton industry and at paving the way for a broader
based agricultural development strategy in heretofore cotton areas. This
will be achieved through incentive and institutional reforms:
(a) the reform of the incentive system provides for the cotton
processing industry to operate within a schedule of
pre-determined margins ("barame"), for the elimination of input
subsidies (already underway), for the introduction of a new
producer pricing system that would allow cotton production to
respond to world price changes, for the payment of an export
subsidy to offset the impact of exchange rate distortions and for
the creation of a Cotton Fund managed by the cotton industry; and
(b) by switching cotton collection, processing and marketing from
public to private sector management, the institutional reform
aims at minimizing intermediate costs and reducing the share of
fixed costs in the total thereby allowing the industry to cope
better with price and production fluctuations. In parallel, by
improving the effectiveness of the extension service and
broadening the scope of its activities to encompass the entire
farming system, the institutional reform aims at improving the
capacity of support services to alleviate productivity
bottlenecks at farm level and identify crop diversification
possibilities.
32.       The adjustment program which would extend over three years (FY88
thru FY90) would be supported by a series of adjustment operations,
starting with the proposed Credit and followed by the broader agricultural
sector adjustment credit.



- 10 -
Incentive Reform
Margin for Intermediate Costs
33.       In 1985/1986 the sum of producer price (CFAF 250/kg lint cotton
equivalent) and SOCADA's margin for purchasing, processing and marketing
activities (CFAF 560/kg), largely exceeded the export price (CFAF 350/kg),
resulting in a large loss for each kilogram of cotton exported. The
emergency program supported by CCCE in 1986/87 is expected to reduce
SOCADA's margin to CFAF 490/kg in 1986/87 (table in para 81).
34.       Through a major restructuring of SOCADA, the proposed sector
adjustment program would reduce the intermediate margin further to a level
of approximately CFAF 300/kg by 1990 which is an efficient cost level for
the services being provided. 1/   To achieve these cost reductions, the
proposed program includes, in addition to the institutional reform package,
an approach to contain intermediate costs. Intermediaries in cotton
purchase, ginning and marketing will be made to operate within the
framework of a "bareme", or a schedule that will set intermediate costs at
predetermined levels, including a set amount per kilo of lint cotton and a
set percentage of the world price as profit for the operator and as a way
to provide him with an incentive to sell cotton at a high price on the
world market.
35.       The amounts included in the "bareme" will reflect the detailed
institutional restructuring supported by the credit. A consultancy team
will be recruited to establish the "bareme" amount.  The bareme will be set
upfront for three years in declining amounts in real terms and thereafter
will be maintained in real terms. It will be reviewed annually for price
adjustments. Application of the bareme will start November 1, 1987.
36.       By 1990, the total losses of the cotton industry are projected to
be reduced to CFAP 120/kg. Combined with output declines resulting from a
reduction in producer incentives, the losses of the cotton industry
(excluding SOCADA's rural development expenditures of CFAF 1.6 billion in
1986) will decline from CFAF 6.5 billion in 1985/86 to ClAP 3.6 billion in
1990 with the emergency program only, and to CFAF 1.4 billion in 1990 (in
constant 1986 CFAF) with the sector adjustment program.
37.       The losses of the cotton industry will not be eliminated.  But
this remaining loss will be financial, not economic since the pricing
formula will provide for export parity pricing (para 44). It is therefore
1/        This level is derived from quantifying the impact of cost
reduction measures as a result of restructuring SOCADA. It is
comparable to the intermediate costs of the most efficient cotton
producers in West Africa (Burkina and Mali).



- 11 -
not due to production inefficiencies: through the emergency program,
ginneries in marginal areas have been closed so that production is now
concentrated in the agronomically favorable zones; with the complete
removal of input subsidies, remaining inefficiencies at production level
will also be eliminated. This financial loss is due to exchange rate
distortions. It requires an export subsidy to offset the resulting
anti-export bias. The possible extension of an export subsidy to other
parts of the export sector to improve its competitiveness along with
appropriate import tariffs will be addressed in the next SAL.
38.       This export subsidy as well as the subsidy on SOCADA's margin
during the adjustment period (i.e., the difference between intermediate
costs planned in any given year and those that should prevail after
restructuring) will be included in the Government budget. Through the
adjustment program the latter subsidy should be eliminated by 1990. The
former will be maintained only if exchange rate distortions persist and
will become an integral part of the new producer price setting mechanism.
It will be reviewed annually. 2/ Budgetary subsidies will be paid directly
to SOCADA until the creation of the Cotton Fund (para. 46) on November 1,
1988. From that date onwards the Fund will receive the corresponding
budgetary subsidy. Subsidy disbursements will be made in accordance with
cash flow requirements. A cash flow table will be submitted to the Finance
Ministry by November 1 each year.
Producer Incentives
39.       The medium-term goal of the producer incentive reform is to move
to export parity pricing by:
(a) eliminating input subsidies; and
(b) linking producer prices to world prices.
40.       Input Subsidies.    As part of the emergency program, fertilizer
and insecticide subsidies are being reduced from 33% and 46% respectively
in 1987 to 20% and 25X in the 1987/88 season and should be eliminated in
the  1988/89 season. 3/  More recently, a question has arisen as to the
desirability of eliminating the subsidy on pesticides. It is reported that
reduced use of pesticides could lead to a significant deterioration of
2/        The export subsidy will be the difference between the adjustment
on F.O.B. prices less the adjustment on the imported share of
intermediate costs. For the sake of simplicity the export
subsidy will be expressed as the net resulting percentage of the
export price.
3/        Season refers to the agriculture year, i.e., May 1988 - April
1989.



- 12 -
cotton quality. SOCADA's research department will be requested to gather
evidence on this issue and to forward it to IDA by end December 1987.
Unless there is a strong enough case against it, subsidies will be
eliminated as planned in 1988/89.
41.       Producer Prices.  Since current producer prices of CFAF 100/kg
are roughly in line with export parity prices (derived on the basis of an
efficient level of intermediate costs i.e., CFAF 300/kg), the producer
price will be maintained at that level for the 1987 season. It represents
a 10% decline in real terms since 1985/86.
42.       Starting with the 1988/89 season, a new pricing system will be
enacted which will atitomatically adjust prices and will link producer
prices to world price movements. The new system will consist of a floor
price announced on February 1 (i.e., before the planting season) and a
purchase price announced on November 1 (i.e., before the marketing season).
The price will be announced for top quality cotton. The mark-down for
yellow and unsorted cotton will be CFAF 15/kg.
43.       The floor price will be calculated as the residual value of a
reference export price plus export subsidy less intermediate costs. The
export subsidy will be a varying percentage of the export price, reflecting
the rate of currency distortions (para 38). Intermediate costs will be the
costs of cotton purchase, processing and marketing that will prevail after
restructuring, so as not to penalize farmers for SOCADA's inefficiencies.
The reference export price will be determined on the basis of a formula
that takes into account recent and future price trends (e.g. p:evious and
next three years). The formula will be applied flexibly with the objective
of maintaining production at the minimum capacity to keep the industry
alive, though at a reduced level, if prices fall to abnormally low levels,
and to progressively shut down the industry if world prices do not rebound
upwards. For the next two seasons the floor price would not be allowed to
fall below CFAF 100/kg.
44.       The purchase price will be calculated on the basis of the export
price that is likely to prevail at export time ("bareme" export price),
i.e., on the basis of short-term price forecasts and futures sales. The
purchase price will be equal to the "barame" export price plus export
subsidy less intermediate costs provided for in the bareme. On the basis
of EPD price projections, it is likely that the purchase price would not be
operational and the floor price would be in effect in 1988 and 1989 when
world prices are expected to hover around CFAF 400/kg. In 1990 when world
prices are expected to increase to CFAF 470/kg, and intermediate margins to
decline to CFAF 300/kg, the purchase price would be operational and real
producer prices would increase by about 15% over their 1986 level (see
table, para 81). If world prices increase substantially, the increase in
the purchase price will be softened by the impact of the resulting improved
balance of payments situation on the real exchange rate, and the consequent
reduction in export subsidy.



- 13 -
45.       Final agreement on the producer pricing system, including the
formula for setting floor producer prices, and enactment of the relevant
decree vill be conditions for the release of the second tranche.
Cotton Fund
46.       A Cotton Fund will be established to perform two main functions:
(a) Channel for budgetary subsidies. The Fund will receive the
budgetary subsidies. An intermediary between the Budget and the
cotton industry is important to ensure that the required amounts
are available when needed so that cotton purchase, processing and
marketing operations can proceed without interruption; and
(b)  Stabilization.  The Fund will operate a stabilization mechanism
between the actual export price and the price used in determining
the purchase price ('fbarame" export price). In case world prices
(defined by reference to an internationally published price to
prevent underinvoicing) fall below the "barame" export price, the
Fund will intervene to finance the difference. If world prices
increase above the "barame" export price, the Fund will retain
the difference. The reserve required to operate this
stabilization is expected to be small (of the order of CFAF 300
to CFA 600 million or about US$1 to US$2 million).
47.       Statutes for the Cotton Fund satisfactory to IDA will be enacted
by February 1988 and the target date for the start of its operations is
November 1, 1988. Until that date, Government will disburse the subsidies
directly to SOCADA on the basis of an agreed disbursement plan. Timely
disbursement of the subsidies is a condition for the release of the Credit
third tranche. The Fund's statutes will provide (i) equal representation
by producers (representatives of farmers groups), operators of the
ginneries and Government on the Board; (ii) for the Fund to have three
accounts: a subsidy account funded from the Budget, a stabilization account
initially funded by a Government contribution and thereafter by the
difference between actual and "barawe" export prices, and a small operating
account funded from earnings of the stabilization account; and (iii) for
annual audits.
48.       The specific measures and the timetable for implementing the
incentive reform are listed in Annex V.
Institutional Reform
49.       In order to eliminate the inefficiencies, rigidities and limited
autonomy inherent in the parastatal management of commercial activities,
the goal of the institutional reform is to privatize those activities
(while demonstrating to the private sector via the incentive reform that
the industry can be profitable to them). An additional advantage of the
privatization will be the possible start-up of other commercial activities



- 14 -
in the rural areas as firms would try to make use of facilities and
equipment which would otherwise be underutilized in the cotton off-season.
In parallel, SOCADA's second set of activities, namely rural development
including research, extension, training, promotion of draft power, and
maintenance of rural roads will remain within SOCADA, until national
structures have been developed in the broader context of the institutional
reform of the MRD, which will be supported by the follow up Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Credit.
Commercial Activities
50.       Since there are only limited economies of scale in cotton
processing, the goal will be to have at least two different entrepreneurs
take over the ginnery operations and related commercial activities, thereby
having some competition in the sector and giving Government better control
over the margin allowed for intermediate costs. The search for candidates
will be carried out by a negotiator (para 63). Applicants will be
carefully screened for their financial status and management experience.
Successful applicants are expected to be few. One foreign firm and one
local firm have expressed interest to this date.
51.       The commercial and industrial functions which SOCADA would divest
itself of include seed and input distribution, credit in kind, production
forecast, the organization of cotton purchase, ginning, and exporting,
which constitute the core off farm support services for cotton production.
It is expected that private entrepreneurs who take over the operation of
the ginneries would initially provide the full package of services because
all these functions need to be effectively carried out to ensure a steady
supply of cotton to the ginneries and because at this point in time
alternative suppliers do not exist. It is not excluded however, that
private operators would eventually subcontract certain of these functions
(e.g. transport) if it is advantageous to them, or that farmers would
purchase their inputs from other suppliers as input distribution is being
liberalized. Conversely, private entrepreneurs may choose to provide
additional services to farmers, such as provision of technical advice
because it makes commercial sense to them.
52.       Even after ginneries have been privatized, Government will
continue to set official producer prices and intermediate margins. This
will be necessary so long as production in any given area only allows for
one ginnery to be in operation, thereby placing the ginnery operator in a
monopoly situation.
Rural Development Activities
53.       Most rural development activities are today carried out by
donor-funded project agencies, including SOCADA in the cotton zone and
ACADOP which overlaps with SOCADA in the Western part of the cotton zone
(Ouham Pende region). The project supported regional development agencies,
took responsibility for provision of basic services, which the underfunded,
underskilled and overstaffed central administration was incapable of



- 15 -
providing. While a few project agencies, especially the smaller ones, have
been relatively successful due to unbureaucratic procedures and their
closeness to the field, projects have reflected donor requirements and
funding availability more than national priorities and budgetary
constraints.
54.       A major objective of the follow-up Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program  (para 14) will be to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Rural Development to plan, coordinate and supervise projects, while
initiating the transition from the current fragmented area-based approach
to a centrally run and funded approach. Accordingly, in the cotton area
the ultlmate objective will be to transfer SOCADA's research, extension and
other rural development activities to national services. With UNDP
financing, Government will undertake a study on the role, function and
organization of the MD with a view to formulating an institution building
program for the rural sector. Thus, until national services have been
developed, SOCADA will continue to exist as a rural development agency,
and as an asset holding company until the privatization process is
completed.
SOCADA During the Transition
55.       Organizational Structure.  To prepare SOCADA for the transfer of
its commercial activities to private operators and of its rural development
activities to appropriate national services a number of actions will be
required. First, SOCADA's structure needs to be trimmed down at all levels
through the emergency program of cost and staff reductions and tightening
of financial discipline; and through further cost-reduction measures
resulting from SOCADA's restructuring, including reduction of headquarter
staff and extension personnel. Second, SOCADA's organization needs to be
modified to achieve a clear separation of its commercial activities from
rural development activities (from headquarters to field level including
separate decision making and accountability at the level of individual
ginneries which should become autonomous cost centers).
56.       Already, SOCADA has two separate departments: a Production
department which is rural development oriented and is in charge of
extension, training, promotion of draft power and feeder roads, and an
Industry department which is commercially oriented and is in charge of
cotton purchase, ginning, marketing and input distribution. The existence
of two separate departments is a reflection of the differing nature of both
activities. It also simplifies the adjustment required in SOCADA's
organizational structure. Key measures will be to appoint ginnery managers
who will be fully in charge of all commercial activities at field level, to
transfer input, transportation and garage activities to those managers, to
reduce headquarter staff including expatriate staff in line with the
greater responsibilities being given to field level, and to restructure the
extension service.
57.       Extension.  Over the years SOCADA has built up a very large
extension service with close to 700 staff at a cost of CFAF 1 billion
annually. The service carries out two types of functions: commercial ones



- 16 -
(input distribution and associated in-kind-credit, organization of
marketing and associated credit-recovery); and, more strictly, extension
functions including liaison with research and technical advice to farmers.
While there is considerable evidence that the commercial function has been
effective, the extension function was performed less well. The same types
of messages are repeated year after year despite low adoption rates which
reflect the existence of unresolved productivity constraints at farm level
rather than stubbornness and ignorance of farmers as perceived by SOCADA's
extension staff. The extension approach has been one of trying to force
farmers to adopt recommendations (e.g., farmers who do not plant by a
certain date do not receive needed inputs) rather than to understand the
origin of their resistance.
58.       There is general agreement that SOCADA's extension service needs
to be reduced and reoriented. Under the emergency program it has already
been decided to reduce numbers from 678 in January 1987 to 389 by October
1987. Under the proposed adjustment, numbers of extension staff will be
reduced further (to about 200 by end April 1988).
59.       In addition to reducing numbers, staff quality will be improved
through retraining (an expatriate will be hired for this purpose). Staff
will be taught to adopt a more global and less dirigiste approach to
extension that is more responsive to farmers' needs and that encompasses
the whole farming system. Also training in providing support to informal
farmer groups, begun under the Cotton Project (para 18), will be continued
with the objective of using these groups as vehicles for the transfer of
technical knowledge to farmers. These informal farmer groups already exist
in much of the cotton area and play an important role in seed cotton
marketing.
60.       Research.  Research, being carried out under the auspices of
individual projects, suffers from a lack of coordination and leadership at
national level. The present activity of the MRD's Directorate of Agronomic
Research and the National Committee of Agronomic Research, which are
responsible for guiding and coordinating agronomic research, are limited to
merely keeping informed of research carried out in the country. Taking
into account the recommendations of a French funded and staffed review
mission, Government intends to bring together all agricultural research
carried out in the country under a coherent national structure to be
defined in the overall context of the structural reform of the MND. In the
meantime, the work of the National Committee will be strengthened.
61.       SOCADA's research department is one of the strongest in the
country. It has staff and technical capability to undertake research
beyond cotton and the limited amount of food crop research that it
undertakes at present. This department will be kept largely intact within
SOCADA until it can be transferred to an appropriate national structure but
the research program will need to be reoriented to more fully include
economic considerations and broadened to analyze constraints within the
farming system.



- 17 -
62.       The specific measures and the timetable for implementing the
institutional reform are listed in Annex V.
Technical Assistance
63.       To ensure that the adjustment program is carried out according to
plan, a number of key staff will be appointed:
(a) a management controller, to be financed under the Credit, will be
recruited. He will report to the Ministry of Economy, Finance
ankd Planning (MEFP) and will be responsible for monitoring
implementation of the adjustment program, for controlling the
margins allowed in the "barame" and verifying that it is
respected, and for authorizing disbursement of budgetary
subsidies. He will also screen invoices submitted to the Bank
for credit disbursement and ensure that accompanying
documentation is appropriate;
(b) a high level negotiator, to be financed under the Credit, will be
recruited. He will report to the High Commissioner for State
Enterprises, and will be in charge of looking for private
operators willing to take over SOCADA's commercial and industrial
activities, drafting contracts and carrying out >he negotiations;
(c) a team of one economist and one financial analyst will be hired
to work out the detailed "btr&me" on the basis of the model
provided by the cotton study consultants; and
(d) consultants will be hired under UXDP financing to carry out the
study on the reorganization of the MRD.
An amount of US$0.5 million is provided under the Credit to fund a total of
30 man-months of consultancy for the above purposes.
Preparation of Follow-up Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program
64.       The recently published 1987 budget for the MRD allocates 97.2% of
total funds to salaries and only 2.8% to operating expenses. In effect,
activities of the Ministry have come to a stand-still. One of the
objectives of the follow-up Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit will be
to reduce the size of the agricultural civil service in order to reduce the
total salary bill, thereby releasing funds for operating expenses without
increasing the total agricultural budget; and in parallel to achieve a more
even distribution of resources between donor supported agencies and
projects and the central services of the MRD.
65.       In the meantime a minimum operational capacity is required at the
Ministry to plan and coordinate the rather wide ranging program of reforms
which is contemplated in the overall agricultural sector. The proposed
Credit would therefore include a small fund (US$0.5 million) that would be



- 18 -
used to purchase two vehicles and some essential office equipment, to
finance the operating expenses of the General Secretariat which is in
charge of preparation, and to hire short-term consultancy services to carry
out required studies and help Government formulate Its agricultural
adjustment program.
PART V. THE PROPOSED CREDITS
Financing
66.       It is proposed that the Government's adjustment program for the
cotton sector be supported by an IDA Credit of US$15 million equivalent.
In addition, Special Joint Financing through the African Facility amounting
to US$8 million equivalent will be made available by Japan (Yens 600
million through the OECF and Yens 225 million to be administered by IDA)
and by Saudi Arabia through the Saudi Fund (Rials 9.0 million equivalent to
about US$2 million).
67.       The proposed Credits are expected to be disbursed over a 16 month
period ending October 1988. They would finance about 9% of the country's
gross external financing requirements over the adjustment period, and would
complement grants, non-project and project financing from the FAC, CCCE,
ADB, BDEAC, FED and other donors. The sectoral program has been discussed
with the DMF and key donors have been kept informed throughout the
processing of this operation.
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release
68.       The proceeds of the Credits will be made available for withdrawal
in three tranches, except for US$1 million which will be disbursed against
specific expenditures (paras 63 and 65). The first tranche of US$8 million
will be released upon effectiveness; the second and third of US$7 million
when conditions for their release have been met. The conditions for
release of each tranche relate to the actual implementation of specific
measures which are crucial to the overall implementation of the program.
The objective and content of the adjustment program are set out in the
Government Statement of Sectoral Policy (Annex V). The complete list of
specific dated measures are included in the attachment to this Annex.
69.       The following actions have been taken:
(a) execute the emergency program according to the agreed timetable,
in particular the program of staff reduction (287 staff to leave
before June 1987) and reduction of input subsidies to 202 and 25%
respectively for fertilizer and pesticides;
(b) announce producer prices for the 1987/88 season at 100 CFAF/kg
for white cotton, and at 85 CFAF/kg for yellow and unsorted
cotton;



- 19 -
(c) complete the cotton study and discuss with IDA its conclusions,
including detailed organizational arrangements for introducing:
(i) schedule of intermediate margins ("barame");
(ii) formula for setting floor producer prices;
(iii) mechanism for setting actual purchase prices;
(iv) mechanism for payment of budgetary subsidies;
(v) organization and operations of the Cotton Fund; and
(vi) plan and timetable for decentralizing SOCADA and separating
the management of industrial and commercial activities from
those of rural development;
(d) submit to IDA SOCADA's audit report for fiscal year 1985/86; and
(e) launch the UNDP financed study on the reorganization of MRD and
the redefinition of the role of rural development agencies.
70.       The following actions are conditions for the release of the
second tranche:
(a) appoint a Committee satisfactory to IDA to supervise the
implementation of the Sectoral Adjustment Program (it could be a
subcommittee of the existing SAL Supervisory Committee);
(b) preselect in July 1987 a team of two consultants (economist and
financial analyst) to establish the "bar&me" for the next three
years in line with the program of cost-reductions;
(c) enact the decree establishing the new producer price setting
mechanism in accordance with paragraphs 42, 43 and 44; and launch
an information campaign to explain to producers the new pricing
system;
(d) repay SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears for an amount of no less than CFAF
3.0 billion to the local banks;
(e) cancel the agreement between CAISTAB and SOCADA which provided
for CAISTAB's guarantee to cover SOCADA's losses and for the
countervailing transfer of SOCADA's profits to the CAISTAB;
(f) budget the 1988 cotton sector subsidies as defined in paragraph
38; prepare a subsidy disbursement plan for the year 1987/88; and
establish an agreement satisfactory to IDA between Government and



- 20 -
the ginnery operator(s) for the payment of budgetary subsidies,
including a clause stating that any subsidy from other sources
would result in the automatic reduction of the budgetary subsidy
by an equivalent amount;
(g) employ a management controller (para 63);
(h) set the "bareme" for the next three years;
(i) adopt a plan and a timetable for changing SOCADA's organization
with a view to trimming down and decentralizing its structure,
and initiating the separation of its two broad types of
activities; most notably:
-    appoint regional directors, with the profile of managers,
who will be responsible mainly for the management of
commercial and industrial activities (namely, seed cotton
purchase, transport, garages, ginning, marketing of cotton
fiber, input delivery at the GIR or zone level, and credit
recovery). The regional director will be seconded by a
deputy who will be responsible mainly for rural development
activities (extension, draft power, training);
-    adopt accounting and financing methods that provide for the
clear separation of industrial and commercial activities
from rural development activities;
-    reduce the number of technical advisors at the level of
SOCADA to eight (with the exception of research service and
road unit advisors who are financed by FAC and FED
respectively); and
-    reduce the number of extension agents to 200; and
(j) employ a high level negotiator (para 63).
71.       The following actions are conditions for the release of the third
tranche:
(a) repay in full SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears to the local banks;
(b) announce producer prices for the 1988/89 season in line with the
new pricing system and eliminate input subsidies in accordance
with paragraph 40;
(c)  submit to IDA SOCADA's Audit report for 1986/87, ant.. the
management controller's report on the implementation of the
adjustment program;
(d) complete SOCADA's structural reorganization in line with the
agreed plan (para 70 (i));



- 21 -
(e) payment by Government of the subsidies to the ginnery operator in
accordance with the disbursement plan;
(f) submission of the negotiator's report, including a plan of
action, an implementation schedule, and the conditions for the
privatization of SOCADA's commercial and industrial activities
and the identification of potential purchasers or private
operators; review of the negotiator's report for approval by
Government and IDA; and start of negotiations;
(g) enact the statutes for the creation of the Cotton Fund; and
(h)  complete study on MRD reorganization and define a coordination
mechanism for research at national lev-el following conclusions of
the study.
Management and Administration of the Cotton Sector Adjustment Program
72.       The Government will establish a Committee to supervise the
preparation and implementation of the adjustment program, under the
leadership of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. In addition
to members of the MEFP, the Committee will include high level
representatives of MRD, the Presidency, the Commerce Ministry, the High
Commission for State Enterprises, the BEAC and the local banks. This
committee could be a sub-committee of the existing SAL Supervisory
Committee. The Committee will meet at least every three months to take
stock of progress and decide on eventual remedial actions. It will be
supported by the work of the management controller who will prepare
quarterly reports on program implementation. The reports and the minutes
of the Committee meetings will be submitted to IDA.
Procurement, Disbursements and Retroactive Financing
73.       IDA financing will be limited to imports procured from Bank
member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, China. African Facility
financing, under Special Joint Financing from Japan and Saudi Arabia will
be limited to procurement from contributors to the African Facility and
Part II IDA countries. The proposed Credits would finance 100% of the CIF
costs of eligible imports. Financing of imports of petroleum products and
foodstuffs would not exceed 25% each of disbursements under the Credits.
Direct imports by Government would require international competitive
bidding for contracts above US$1.0 million and three price quotations for
goods under US$1.0 million to be eligible. Imports by the private sector
would be in accordance with normal commercial practices in the CAR.
74.       Disbursements under the IDA and SFA (SJF) credits would be made
in tranches (para 68) except for US$1 million that will be used to directly
finance specific disbursement categories: vehicles and equipment (US$0.2
million), MRD General Secretariat operating expenditures (US$0.1 million),
consultancy services (US$0.6 million), unallocated (US$0.1 million).
Disbursements will be made against full documentation with the exception of



- 22 -
expenditures of less than $100,000 equivalent where disbursements would be
made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) which would have to be
approved by the management controller before they are sent to IDA.
Supporting documents would be retained by the Borrower and be available for
review by Bank supervision missions. To facilitate disbursements, two
special accounts would be established at the Central Bank in the name of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, one for the IDA credit and the other
for the SFA (SJF) credits with an authorized allocation of US$2 million
(CFAF 600 million equivalent) each. Reimbursement applications would be
aggregated to a minimum of US$500,000 equivalent. Retroactive financing to
an aggregate amount of US$3 million equivalent would be permitted for
imports made prior to the signing of the Credit Agreements but after
February 1, 1987. Contracts for imports of less than $10,000 equivalent
are not eligible for financing.
75.       The Central Bank would maintain records of all transactions under
the Credits in accordance with sound accounting practices. Not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, all accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
would include a separate opinion with regard to the claims submitted to IDA
on the basis of statements of expenditures and state whether such claims
have been in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
Benefits, Social and Fiscal Impact and Risks
Benefits
76.       The proposed cotton sector adjustment program will allow one of
the more important productive sector of the CAR economy to withstand the
crisis caused by depressed commodity markets and exchange rate distortions.
At the same time, by switching to a more market-based approach allowing
planting decisions to better reflect relative crop prices and relative
input-output prices and by halving the intermediate costs of cotton
purchase, processing and marketing, the adjustment program will allow the
CAR to regain its comparative advantage in cotton production, thereby
allowing the sector to expand when exogenous conditions improve. In
parallel, the program will initiate much needed improvements in the
provision of farmers' support services, which should permit a better
understanding of the real production constraints at farm level and to a
diversification of productive activities including promotion of other cash
crops.
Social Impact
77.       Farmers' net incomes from cotton are small in absolute amounts,
varying from CFAF 15,000 per year (about US$50) for a farmer growing cotton
on a 0.5 ha using extensive techniques to CFAF 100,000 per year (about
US$330) for a farmer growing cotton on 2 ha using semi-intensive
techniques. But in relative terms this income is important both for
farmers for whom it constitutes a substantial share of total cash income,
especially in the main cotton zone, and for the overall rural economy where



- 23 -
the multiplier effect of cotton cash income is significant. The
distribution of cotton income has given rise to aiacillary activities in
home improvements, vell digging, trade in consumer goods, beer making, etc.
78.       The social impact of the proposed adjustment program would
clearly be positive since, without it, cotton production and income would
fall rapidly as Government is increasingly less able to fund SOCADA's
mushrooming losses. The overall impact of a sudden drop in cotton income
on overall farmers' incomes (and on ancillary construction and trade
activities in rural areas) would be uneven depending upon the area and crop
substitution possibilities. In marginal areas where cotton was a small
share of farmers' income (5%), there is evidence of attractive cash earning
possibilities (e.g. in the East where the cotton and coffee zones overlap).
In the more favorable areas where yields are on average higher (e.g., in
the western Ouham and Ouham Pende region), cotton production would be
reduced more moderately despite declining incomes. In these areas,
alternatives are few and provide a less reliable and a less "lumpy" source
of income (food crops, honey and beer making and hunting).
79.       The program of staff reductions at SOCADA would result in the
release of 128 staff in addition to 287 who have already been released
under the Emergency Program. Most of the released staff, being civil
servants, would be included in the 'Personnel Bank" set up under the SAL to
reassign redundant staff from any agency to other vacant appropriate posts
in the civil service or to assist departure of such staff by financing
redundancy payments and/or training programs to facilitate their absorption
into the private sector.
80.       While the overall social impact of the program is unquestionably
positive compared to the without program situation, over the next few years
farmers will suffer an absolute decline in their cotton income (about 35%
between 1985/86 and 1989/90). This decline will be the result of a real
reduction in cotton prices and a real increase in input prices, leading to
a contraction of production from 35,000 tons in 1985/86 to about 22,000
tons in 1988/89. From 1990 onwards, production is expected to increase
back to 30,000 tons and above as improved world prices permit to raise
producer prices. In the short term the impact of the drop in cotton income
on overall farm income will be moderated by enhanced crop substitution
possibilities brought about by the recent liberalization of food crop
pricing and marketing. In the medium to longer term, diversification of
productive activities will be further enhanced by transfering extension and
other rural development functions out of SOCADA which has focused its
efforts, nearly exclusively, on cotton production.
Fiscal Impact
81.       A major achievement of the proposed adjustment program will be to
reduce the cost to Government of supporting cotton production at a time
when the budgetary situation is extremely tight. The overall budgetary
situation is expected to improve only after 1990 when debt service
obligations decline. By 1990, a fiscal subsidy will still be paid to the



- 24 -
cotton sector at a level of approximately CFAF 1.3 billion annually (in
1986 prices CFAF 110/kg times 12,000 tons of lint cotton). This subsidy
which will exist only if exchange rate distortions persist is small
compared to the total subsidy required without the adjustment program: CFAF
5.6 billion in 1985/86 (excluding rural development expenditures) and CFAF
3.6 billion in 1987/88 (i.e., after full impact of the emergency program).
Table: Impact of the Adjustment Program (CFAF per kg Lint Cotton)
With Sectoral
Without Emergency      With Emergency       Adjustment
Program              Program            Program
(1986)              (1987)              (1990)
Producer Price                250                  225                 290
Intermediate Margin           560                  490                300
Total Production Cost         810                  715                 590
Export Price                  350                  400                470
Loss                          460                  315                 120
Note: Constant 1986 Prices.
Risks
82.       There are three main risks attached to this operation.  The first
one is that world cotton prices do not strengthen as anticipated, in which
case producer prices which will increasingly reflect world conditions
would decrease more rapidly than expected in real terms forcing further
adjustments on the industry if it is to survive. While a private sector
industry will be more apt to adjust, the risk would subsist of a much
reduced cotton sector possibly below the level at which maintaining the
processing capacity operation makes economic sense. In this case the
industry would shut down. The likelihood of this happening however, is low
since cotton price forecasts from various sources are overall favorable.
Stocks of Chinese cotton which caused the large drop in world prices,
appear to be much lower and the recovery more rapid than anticipated.
83.       A second, and most significant risk, is that Government does not
pay the budgetary subsidy on time, thereby endangering the smooth
functioning of the cotton purchase, processing and export operations.
Sufficient guarantee that the subsidy will effectively be paid, is a sine
qua non condition to the participation of private operators. To minimize
this risk, at the macro level the Credit provides direct support to the
central budget in line with overall requirements defined in the IMF



- 25 -
program. At sectoral level, the Credit provides for the establishment of
the Cotton Fund through which the subsidy is to be channelled no later than
January 31, in time for operations to proceed without interruption.
84.       The third risk is that no private operator will be found to take
over the ginneries at the conditions provided for in the "barame". This
risk is closely related to that of providing sufficient guarantee that they
incur low risks and be adequately compensated for the services rendered.
In addition to the above mentioned funding mechanism for the budgetary
subsidies, the program provides for the introduction of the "bareme" system
which guarantees a set margin to private operators and, which through the
operation of the Cotton Fund and partly through the budget, isolates them
- though not fully - from world market risks. Overall, incentives are
deemed sufficient to attract private interests.
PART VI. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
85.       Since 1969, 12 IDA Credits, two Supplemental Financing Credits
and one Special African Facility Credit totalling just over US$135 million
equivalent have been approved for the CAR. Of these, five were in the
transport sector, three each in education and agriculture, and two each for
Technical Assistance and Structural Adjustment. Project implementation has
been satisfactory: lack of qualified national staff and of local funds are
generalized problems in the CAR but the overall trend is one of gradual but
discernible improvement in management of IDA-financed projects.
86.       The present Government's commitment to developing the nation's
relatively rich resource base has been the basis for a new phase in our
intervention in the CAR. The Bank's strategy is now to address the
nation's medium-to-long term development needs through a program of policy
based lending and investment projects in support of the Government's
objective of sustained 3 to 4% GDP growth per annum. The first policy
based operation, the US$30 million SAL, was approved in September and
became effective in October 1986. The first tranche (US$12 million
equivalent) of the SAL is now fully disbursed and the second tranche (US$18
million equivalent) has been released (May 1987).
87.       Three sectoral operations, a second SAL and an agricultural
investment project are planned for FY 87-91, aimed at deepening the
adjustment process in the agriculture and education sectors while stepping
up investment in agriculture and continuing the program of reforms at the
macro level.



- 26 -
PART VII. RECOMMENDATION
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
articles of Agreement of the Association.
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985.
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Special Joint Financing.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1987
Attachments



-27 -
CIIRAL AFRlCA  OW. - BCUMlIC IICATOR                            Country Oroup: i Wst Africa
Country name     C. Afr. Rep
Annex:   I
mid-1968 Populetlon (mlle.)     8                                                                              Page:  Ilof 8
1988 Per Capite IW in US8:    270                                                                     Date Prepared:   02-Jun-07
A. shares of Or..m 0...btl  Product                     S. Grawth~ Rates (S per annum)
Cf rm current price data)                               (from Constant price data)
1l85    1978    1980    1984    1985    1986.            1968-73  1978-80  11980-84    19889   1986.
aroma Domestic Product C.p.     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 2.9      1.7    -0.7      2.9      2.7
Nut Indireat Taese             8.7      7.9     8.9      6.8     8.0      8.1               .        ..      .        ..     -3.0
Agriculture                   48.6    00.1    86.2    89.2    881.8    89.0                2.1      1.8     1.6      3.0      2.7
Industry                      14.6    24.7    13.5    14.0    18.7    14.4                 7.1     8.2      0.8      1.2      0.7
(of whicbh ankufecturing)      .8.      7.2     6.8      7.8     7.2      7.0               ..      .8    -8.0      1.4       4.0
ServIces                      86.0    81.8    42.4    40.5    86.7    41.8                 1.6      1.9    -2.9      3.7      1.4
Resource Balance,               -10.6   -14.2   -12.1   -12.8   -16.8   -18.4                   .       .
Exptot of OM                  27.1    28.2   25.2    20.0    25.8    19.6                  0.8     2.7      0.1      7.7    -11.2
Iports of amS                 87.7    89.4    88.8    82.8    89.8    88.1                 1.?     8.2    -1. 1     8.7       8.9
Total Expenditures              110.8   114.2   112.1   112.7   118.0   118.4                 2.8      2.9    -1. 1     2.0
Total Consumption             89.2    92.1   100.7   100.4    98.2   100.6                 3.0      Jr1..    -2.8    1.9      4.6
Privaet Coonsumption       66.9    71.6    97.1    69.8    86.0         ..3.4                    6.0    -2.0      2.0
aeneral Governaunt         22.2    20.7    18.8    10.6    12.2         ..1.7    -0.9    -6.2                     1.4
Grose Domestic Investment     21.4    22.1    11.4    12.4    14.9    14.6                 2.8   -10.6    16.0       2.7      1.0
Fixed Itwesteant              .        .       .        .       .        ..                        .
Chanes" In Stock..                    .        ..       .       .        ...                       .
Gros" Domestic saving            10.8      7.9    .4.6    43.6      1.6    -0.8               4.6      ..       ..       .    -6.9
Net Factor Incom              -0.8    -0.2      0.8      1.0     1.9    -1.8                 .       .
Nut Current Transfrer            .        .    10.8      9.1     6.2      7.6                .       .
Gros. National saving              .        ..     1.0      7.8    11.9      5.8                .       .     52.4     2.9
InbhilIlion, of CFAfrancs, (1)    1968    197     1960    1984    1988p   1986e
(at cwontat 1980 prices)                                             - -------
areas Domestic Product       125.0   164.0   264.9   27.7   289.8   297.1                  2.9      1.7    -0.7      3.8      2.7
Capacity to Import            20.0    82.0    79.1    86.8    41.0    48.0                 0.9     8.9    -2.9   -26.8        9.8
Torso of Trade Adjustment      7.0      8.0    -.4.      0.0     4.0    11.9                 .       .        .       .     148.8
arose Domestic Income         8.       8.      5.       7.      9.       0.                2.8     2.4    -.1.8      5.5      5.1
Oroes Rational Product          ..       .        .       .        .       .                .0      1.0    -0.2      2.81
Gr*oss Natlonel Incomme         ..       .        .       .        .       .                .0     2.8    -1.0       2.9
(1980 - 100)--------                 ---- ------Inflation Pates (S P.C.)------
C. Price Indices                 198      lo 0    198218   194    1986P   1986e           19685-78  1978-80 1980-841   1988    1986
Consmemr Prices (IFS 6)100.0   127.5   144.4   162.8                 .                        4.8    11.9    12.9
Wholesale Prices (InS 68)       100.0   181.1   142.8   1.61.1  1,61.3        3. .4    10.6    11.0                    6.6
Implicit CDP Defator            100.0   1810.9   149.4   1815.0   166.8      ..               .0    14.8    12.1       8.7
Implicit Expenditures Deflator   100.0   187.    157.1   188.2   171.0       3. .1    18.6    18.0                     8.1
D. other Indicators                    1968-78          197840           l980-86p        -- -   ----- -
Notes,
Orowth Rate. Cs p.a.):
Pboulation                              i.e              2.8              2.5         e - estimated date
Labor Force.                                               ..                         p a preliminary data
arose Rational Income P.o.              1.4              0.2             -2.1
Privet. Conesumption p.c.               1.8              8.7             43.1         (1) The data from 1980 to in constant
MM8 prices.
Import Elasticity:
imports (O.#NFI) / (DP Cap)            0.6               8.6              0.2
Mbarinal Savings, Rates:
Gross Rational Saving e.                                                475.8
Orees, Domestic Saving                -7.2            -197.7           1722.8
ICO (Period averages):
Share of Total                   1988    1978    1960    1988
Labor Fsrce Int                            -           
Agriculturs
Indust0!7
Services
Total



- 28 -
CaliRAL AFRICZ  RE. - ECNOIIC 0DICATIAS Ann.%   1
^--------------------- ---------- ------                                    Paoe:   2 of 3
Volues Imd., (19  * 100):                   Value at Current PricoO (ilions US0)'
. Merchandioe Exporta             1980     1982    19w       1964    11p    168.   18o0    1982    1988             q4      loW5p    198e
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - --    - - -  ----  -  _- --  - ---  --- -   -- ---    - ---    ----  -_---  -  _- --  - - - -- _-
C.iodity  I - D;iumndo           100.0    00.8    s8.0    90.4   108.6   100.5    50.6    29.8    29.1    82.5    88.6                S5.6
Comeodity 2 - Coff*.             100.0   144.1   144.9   102.2   140.1   102.2           8.0    80.s1   s6.8    24.8    41.2         85.8
Comodity 8 - Wood                100.0    15.2    74.2    70. 7    57.1    84.7    18.0    28.7    22.0    20.6    20.0              23.5
Comodity 4 - Cotton               100.0    4S,9    o1.7   110.7   121.8   112.U    84.1           7.0    14.7       0. 8    1i.1      12.1
manufactures
Other Eaports                                                                           22.7    83.0    18.9    16.7    20.5          26.2
Total N.rchandis Exporte s           ..      ..       ..       ..       .. F.   160.4   124.8  1t23.    114.?   130.7    132.6
F. Mrcha ndi  Iport
Food                             100.0    10.9   136.0   119.6   156.7                  15.0    20.9    14.4    12.9        1S8
P0L ond Other En.ray             100.0   109.1   1166    154.5   144.2           ..    21.2    22.0    21.2    21.7    28.7           18.6
Oth.r Ieport.                                                                          228.2   187.0   146.S   143.9   181.2    162.4
o/e Other Conauser 00ad.                                                               8 0     11.4      7.1      6.0      0.6
o/w Other Interuadiste Gode   100.0   189.6   187.2   15t.0   135.7            ..    17.7    21.4    18.4    18.?    23.8
o/u Capital Goeds               100.0   144.1     t91.0    1.2   188.0                4.7    49.9    29.1    82.2    88.4
Total Merchandiae Importe CIF                                                          259.8   199.9  1t2.1   170.S   208.2    201.2
0. Terus of Trod* (1980 - 100)    1960    19S2      low8    196                ts            ----1966.--------
-- ------------------------- - --- -                                                           te:
March. Exports Price Ind*x        100.0    6.7    84.9    07.0    S2.2    92.0
March. Imports Price Index        100.0    96.0    95.7    94.        94.8   104.6                    a - eatiwt  dats
l4erchondi.a Terms of Trade       100.0    60.8    08.7    96.1    87.2    07.9                       p * preliminary data
USI silliena (et curmrt prices):
H. Bblanc. of Paymnto              1900    1962    1988    1964    loo5p    19606
Export of Goads and NFS            25       162      1S6      149      171      196
Naochandis. (Faa)               160      119      1ts      118      181      138
Non-Factor Services              65       48       86       8s       40       63
Imports af Good- and NFS           841      263      242      224      269      850
Merchandie (FM0)                 197     180    1i6        140      168      201
Non-Factor Services              144     114      104       as      101      149
Reocurce Balanc                   -106    -101       -0       -75      -98     -154
Mat Factor Income                   -1       -4       -9      -10      -11      -1S
(interet per D)                   1        2        7        6        7       18
Not Currant Tranefero               62       70       64       84       57       76
(workers reittenc°o)                 0        a        0        0        0
Current Account ftlance            -28      -as      -81     -41       -52      -98
Long-Tere Capital InflIoe           84       4        19       28       89       73
Diroct Invstment                  5        9        S        S        0        0
Official Capital crante           0        0        0        0        0        0
Net LT Lo" (nRS data)            40       17       22       24       42       67
Other LT inflows (Mat)          -11      44        -0       -7       -8        6
Total Other Item  (Not)            -10       25       -2        2      -14        0
Mat Short-tar- Capital            9       38               1U        -7        0
Capital Flog N .E..               0        0        0        0        0        0
Errore and Or;eolons            -29      -18      -10      -1t       -7        0
Change  in Nat RaarfV"              1o       10       1S        6       21       20
Not Crdit from IW                -2        4        9        1       -2        1
Other RrvxCh  ns 18                       14        7        6       2S       19
( - indicate. incrosa.)
As shares of CDP:
Raeurce Balance                 -18      -18      -14      -18      -14      -15
Interest Payonte                  0        0        1        1        1        4
Current Account Iblance          -8       -5      -4        -5       -7      -O
NMerandus Item:
Interat' I Resrvoa  (a; ;. UN)      5        46       47       S8       SO
Re.re. inel. old (ail. UNt)         62       .2       51       58       so
Offi cil  X-Rat. (LUJ'-./W)     211.80  82.62  861.07  486.96  449.26  340.00
Index Real Eff. X-R ssea 190    1.00   99.78   96.25   96.29   97.48
80  (ailionm of current US6)      S01       749      a8       6        704      99



- 29 -
cWIRAL, AICAN W. -    c46C DOICATM                                                 1
Shere. at MP  o) i                         bth ate  CS POa.)
I. Btdget (specifty levl)         190    19112    191       194    t18        196              160 - 6           1964    1911    19
Currnt Recipt.                    10.9    14.0    14.4    14.2    16.2    12. 1                20.4               9.4      8.8     -1.9
Current Expenditure.              1S5S    14.6    15.4    18.8    12.2    1t1.                  9.4              -4,1     4.1       5.2
Curent iudget blance              -4.7    -0.2    -10        0.0      1.0      0.1            -84e             -260.8    2113     47.S
capital Receipts
Cptitl ExPeewitAre.                0.5      6.1    10.6      9.6    12.8      U.1.            197.1              -4.8    87.4      -2.7
Overall O ficit                   -5.2    -S.8   -11.8    48.3   -11.6 S -1.                                    -21.4    612        4.8
Official Capitol Grant.
External arroeing (not)                     2.6     4.9      4.6      7.8      78                                 4.1    95.0       0.0
io_stic  an-bnk Fncing
DOmtie   n Frtnaing                        -1.0     0.4      0.       0        12                                16.2   108.8      80.2
Net Diebureameta (UM  *illIons)                 ODe Outstanding 4  0l7buroal (ki *71.)
J. Esteal Capital Floc_.0obt
an Debt Ilren Ratloe           1960    1962    1s96      1984    19oSp   196    1960    1962    196S    194            lw96    lone
Public A Publicly  uarontlLT        40       17      22       24       42       40     1GO      20g      215      228     296       510
Official Crditera                40       17      23       25       48      42      128      161      190      200     278      8w0
Italtilatarat                 23        a      12        0       2         S2              74       62       1618;            1i6
o Which n                   0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0         0
of  itehU D                10        2       4       12       11       12      29       as       so       49      95        75
Bii #teral                    17        9       11       4       1D       10      64      10       108      101      180      18
Private Creditor                  0       0       -1       -1       -1       -2      87       27       25       24      28        to
Supplier.                      0       -1       -1      -1       -1       -2      32       24       22       21      21        17
Finnacial Ibrkt                0        1       0        0        0        0       S        8        8        2       8         1
Private  n-aranteed U               ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..LT
Total LT                            40       17      22       24       42      40      t6o      200      21S      228     295       818
1W N    Credit                      -1       2        5       -1       2        0        7       24      27       24       28         0
M"tShort-Tor Capital                 e      a8        0       1S       -7      ..       14        2       10       12      17         0
Totl including W  & Mat ST          48       57      84       8        87      40      1i1      24       282     289      841       818
Ibk and  DA Ratioe                1980    1962    1968     14        19       1966         ----------
Share of Taol o  ng-Term OW
1. I     *a  S of Total            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0                   *      titd data
2. IDA a S of Total               18.0    16.8    17.7    22.0    21.2    28.6                      p  preliminary dat
S. 1111 A as Sef Total            18.0    16.6    17.7    22.0    21.2    28.6
Sere of Toel LT Debt Serviee.
1. IR  es S of Tteal               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0                  --
2. IDA as S of Total              18.e     6.5      2.2      8.8      4.4     8.0
a. ZII       ae 5 of Totl         18.8     6.5      2.2      8.8      4.4     8.9
OW-tn,4xport. Ratio.
1. Lag_Tera Dbut/Exprt.          t6.7   124.5   185.5   140.4   187.8   162.8
2. DU Credit/Export.               8.1    14.2    16.9    17.6    18.8        0.0
8. Short-Term  ^b t/E.port         8.9     7.2      6.8      6.8    11.8      0.0
4. Lmboocof OW/Export.            75.7   145.6   186.7   175.8   191.9   162.8
WD-to-9P Ratioe
1. Lang-Tera Oebt/l               18.0   29.0    J11.0    8.0    41.0    81.9
2. DI Crdit,/1                     1.0     8.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     0.0
S. Short-Tera Debt/WP              2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     0.0
4. LT*DU41 DODOW                  21.0    88.0    89.0    41.0    47.0    81.9
Debt Service/Exprt
1. PtkblII &)c arateed LI          0.7     2.0    11.8    11.8        9.0
2. Privata N&-o ate   LI .L T. 
8. Totl LI Debt Service            0.7     2.8    11.8    11.5        9.0
4. fW Rpurehar_  e Sarv    .        ..      ..       ..       .         .       .
S. lnteret Only an ST Debt          ..      ..       ..
S. Totai (LT+DNT lnt.)              ..      ..       ..



0Y z
H
I    X'
I*          V:



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Status of Bank Group Operations
Amount Less
Loan/                                                                              Cancellations       Undis-       Closing
Credit      Year      Borrower                        Sector                       (US$ Millions)      bursed        Date
4 Loan(s)/Credit(s) Closed                                                              25.90
Credits
C01460      1969      Central African Republic        Transportation                    4.80              .62
C01990      1970      Central African Republic        Transportation                    4.60              .30
C12580      1982      Central African Republic        Transportation                   18.00              .69      06/30/88
C13590      1983      Central African Republic       Education                         11.00            3.55       12131/88
C13760      1983      Central African Republic        Agriculture                      10.40             1.97      03/30/88
C15810      1985      Central African Republic       Technical Assistance               8.00            6.28       06/30/89
C16810      1986      Central African Republic       Agriulture                       11.90           10.76       06/30/92   W
C17320      1987      Central African Republic        SAL                              14.00           11.99       12/31/87
Total Number Credits   8                                                               82.70           36.15
Total (net approved)                                           108.60
of which has been repaid to the Bank (Amort.& Interest)          2.43
Total now outstanding                                          106.17
Total undisbursed                                                               36.15s
Notes:
*** Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
The approved, cancellation and disbursement amounts for IDA-6/IDA-7 Credits as taken from Accounting have been converted
to their $ equivalents based on the current exchange rate.
Ix



0 z
I   XH
I . 
-_ 



- 33 -                Annex III
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section 1.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                      November 1986
(b)  Preappraisal                        February 1987
(c)  Appraisal                           April 1987
(d) Planned Date of
Second Tranche Release              November 1, 1987
(e) Planned Date of Third
Tranche Release                     April 1, 1987
Section II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Implementation Review to assess overall
performance: October 1987 and March 1988
Section III. Special Conditions
The following actions are conditions for the release of the
second tranche:
(a) appoint a Committee satisfactory to IDA to supervise the
implementation of the Sectoral Adjustment Program (it could be a
subcommittee of the existing SAL Supervisory Committee);
(b) preselect in July 1987 a team of two consultants (economist and
financial analyst) to establish the "barame" for the next three
years in line with the program of cost-reductions;
(c) enact the decree establishing the new producer price setting
mechanism; and launch an information campaign to explain to
producers the new pricing system;
(d)  Repay SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears for an amount of no less t"an CFAF
3.0 billion to the local banks;
(e) cancel the agreement between CAISTAB and SOCADA which provided
for CAISTAB's guarantee to cover SOCADA's losses and for the
countervailing transfer of SOCADA's profits to the CAISTAB;
(f) budget the 1988 cotton sector subsidies; prepare a subsidy
disbursement plan for the year 1987/88; and establish an
agreement satisfactory to IDA between Government and the ginnery



- 34 -                Annex III
Page 2 of 3
operator(s) for the payment of budgetary subsidies, including a
clause stating that any subsidy from other sources would result
in the automatic red&ction of the budgetary subsidy by an
equivalent amoott;
(g) employ a management controller;
(h) set the "bareme" for the next three years;
(i) adopt a plan and a timetable for chauging SOCADA's organization
with a view to trimming down and decentralizing its structure,
and initiating the separation of its two broad types of
activities; most notably:
-    appoint regional directors, with the profile of managers,
who will be responsible mainly for the management of
commercial and industrial activities (namely, seed cotton
purchase, transport# garages, ginning, cotton fiber
expedition, input delivery at the GIR or zone level, and
credit recovery). The regional director will be seconded by
a deputy who will be responsible mainly for rural
development activities (extension, draft power, training);
-    adopt accounting and financing methods that provide for tne
clear separation of industrial and commercial activities
from rural development activities;
-    reduce the number of technical advisors at the level of
SOCADA to eight (with the exception of "VSN" and research
service and road unit advisors who are financed by FAC and
FED respectively); and
-    reduce the number of extension agents to 200; and
(j) employ a high level negotiator.
The following actions are conditions for the release of the third
tranche:
(a) repay in full SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears to the local banks;
(b) announce producer prices for the 1988/89 season in line with the
new pricing system and eliminate input subsidies;
(c) submit to IDA SOCADAts Audit report for 1986/87, and the
management controller's report on the implementation of the
adjustment program;



- 35 -                Annex III
Page 3 of 3
(d) complete SOCADA's structural reorganization in line with the
agreed plan;
(e) payment by Government of the subsidies to the ginnery operator in
accordance with the disbursement plan;
(f) submission of the negotiator's report, including a plan of
action, an implementation schedule, and the conditions for the
privatization of SOCADA's commercial and industrial activities
and the identification of potential purchasers or private
operators; review of the negotiator's report for approval by
Government and IDA; and start of negotiations;
(g) enact the statutes for the creation of the Cotton Fund; and
(h) complete study on MRD reorganization; and define a coordination
mechanism for research at national level following conclusions of
the study.



-         H
rz z
z~~~~~~~~~~~~L-' 
>   07



CAR COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDrT
SOCADA'S EMERGENCY PROGRAM
Matrix of Adjustment Measures
Date: 05J11/1987
Action                                                                                                                          Actual
Activity                 No.                      Action                               Deadline                    Current Status                        Completion
Date
INCENTIVES                I                Freeze producer price at                    March 1986         Done                                           April 1986
100 CFAF/kg (first quality).
the level reached during the
1985/86 campaign.
2                Gradually eliminate Input
subsidies (fertilizer.
insecticide) over a three-year
period.
Sale price as Z cost price:
2-1              1987/88 campaign: Insecticide             March 1987         Done                                           April 1987
75J. fertilizer 802.
2-2              1988/89 campaign:  1002                   March 1988
SUPPORT SERVICES          3                Adept extension with a view to
reduce personnel and give more
responsibility to farmers by:.
3-1              Reducing extension personnel.             March 1987         See No. 17
3-2              In the 1987/88 season, undertaking        March 1987         Already launched.
a pilot experience in two sectors
of tranferring the
responsibilities for extension.
input distribution and credit
management from village
extension workers to farmers'
groups (GIRs). This
action is to be reviewed at
the end of the campaign.
.   g _  .  .   .........   ..   _   .  _. . _ _  ,~~~~~a
o *
. .



Action                                                                                                                            Actual
Activity                 No.                              Action                        Deadline                  Current Status                            Completion
Date
4                 Reduce the quantity of cotton                Oct. 1986           Under implementation
seed used from a rate of 60
kg/ha to 40 kg/ha (starting with
the 1987/88 campaign).
5                  Improve the quality of cotton               Dec. 1986           Appropriate measures taken.                    Feb. 1987
lint by introducing stricter                                    Impact will be measured at the
classification of seed cotton at                                close of the current campaign.
the time of procurement.
PROCESSING               6                  Reduce ginning capacity by                  June 1986           Done.                                          June 1986
AND EXPORT                                  closing three out of seven
ginneries
7                 Reduce SOCADA vehicle fleet                  June 1987           The sale program has started.
(from 228 to 104 vehicles).                                     SOCADA ts seeking solutions to
improve sale terms and to guarantee
satisfactory completion of sale
contracts.
7-1               Light vehicles (from 100 to 33)                                  25 have already been sold and 15
have been appraised. The
remainder 27 to be sold will be
used by sector chiefs
until motorcycles are purchased.
7-2               Trucks for cotton seed                                           58 trucks are being used, 14
(from 89 to 53)                                                 trucks and 7 trailers have been
sold, and 16 trucks and 2
trailers have been appraised.
7-3               Trucks for cotton lint                                           2 trucks are being used, 2 have
(from 12 to 2)                                                  been sold, 3 trucks and 4
trailers have been appraised but
remain to be sold.
7-4               Others (from 27 to 16)                                           13 have been sold.
8                 Close:                                       March 1987
8-1               Wood workshop In Bangui                                          Effective
. .   .                                                                                                         S|g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



Actual
Action                                                                                                                      CompletIon
Activity                No.                            Action                       Deadline                     Current Status                     Date
8-2              Workshop for fixed motors only.                              Not effective. An additional
in Bangu'                                                    study was requested from SOCADA.
S-3              Keep only routine maintenance                                SOCADA disagrees with this                  To be decided
at the garage in Bangui and                                  measure due to excessive distance          when cotton
concentrate most maintenance                                 between 8ambari and Bossongoa              study is
at Bossango- for light                                       production areas,                          completed.
vehicles, trucks and
machinery.
9                Oil mIll closure:                          Dec. 1987
9-1              Close temporarily tbe oil mIlls                            Effective
of Pende and Alindao until
results of study on oils and
fats markets In CAR are
available.
9-2              Test the marketing of cotton                               Awaiting report on results.
oil produced at Pende during
the 1985/86 campaign.
10               Cost reduction
10-1             Starting with the 1986/87                Effective           Reflected In provisional budget.
campaign.limit use of spare                                  Monitoring required.
parts to 125 CFAF/km and tires
to one set for 2 campaigns in
order to reduce transportation
cost of cotton seed from 465
CFAP/km to 370 ClAF/ks.
10-2             Better monitoring of oil                                     Reflected in provisional budget.
product consumption and spare                                Monitoring required.
parts usage in order to reduce
ginning costs from 46.325 CFAF
to 38.900 CPAF (1986/87).
10-3             Renegotiate contracts for               June 1986          Donfe with savings of about CFAF 100
transportation of cotton fiber                            million. To be renegotiated
and inputs,                                                annually.
OBGANIZATION AND        11               Reduce SOCADA's departments from           Effective         New organization chart issued June            June 1986
MANAGEMNT                                8 to 4.                                                       10. 1986.
12               Establish a system for                     Effective         At the beginning of each month,               December 1986                      0
monitoring and controlling                                   each director and division chief
expenditures.                                                receives a statement of
expenditures for the preced$og
month.



Action                                                                                                                        Actual
Activity                No.                            Actlon                        Deadline                  Current Status                          Completion
Date
13                Formulate purchase procedures              December 1987      The purchasing service was                    In process
that would guarantee                                          established in April 1986. Orders
transparency of operations and                                must now be approved by the General
reduce supplies to che miniu                                  Mnager and by the Controller.
needed (reduce stocks).
14                Implement AUDITEX's
recomendations regarding stock
control and introduce
appropriate management and
accounting procedures.
14-1              Spare parts inventory                   Decerber 87         Numbering of items has been
completed. Denomination and
codification remain to be
carried out
14-2              Physical inventory of                   December 86         Unsatisfactory. Audit report
cotton lint stocks at the                                   85/86 has made recommsendations
closure of the fiscal                                       for improvement.
year.
IS                Provide national staff with               December 87         Under CCCE credit. CFAF 50 million
management training                                           earmarked for training.
16                Formulate and implement budget                                A budget has been established for
for 86/87                                                     each division end discussed with
each division chief. Purther
cost reductions were recomended by
Feb. 1987 donors mission.
17                Reduce staff (from 2,660 in                                   The first reduction (84 staff)
December 1985 to 1.150 in                                     for November 1986 is
November 1988)                                                being carried out, the second
reduction became effective on
May 31. 1987.
OTIHE ACrtVITIES/       18                 Evaluate the reorientation of             Jan. 1987           Study presented in December 1986.             Jan. 1987
DEVElOPMENT                                the project's training                                        Recommendations taken into account
component undertaken in                                      in the 1987/88 program.
1985/86.
b
N 
aX



Actual
Action                                                                                                                          CompIetion
Activity                 No.                             Action                        Deadline                      Current Status                      Date
19                Identify fitancing for                                         Reduced budget for the 1987/88                 Feb. 1987
agricultural research                                          campaign financed for the most part
component.                                                     by FAC, IDA and EDF.
STUDIES                  20                Study cotton sub-sector.                    June 1987          Completed.                                     May 1987
21                Study market for oils and fate              December 87        CCCE vIll finance the study
and has submitted the names of four
consulting firms.
22                Study diversification and                   December 87        EDP has agreed to finance the
reconversion of marginal areas                                 study.
J.
* _ _  ,                                    . . .... . _    _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



-      H
z 
(0/0
i -I



- 43 -                           Annex V
Page 1 of 14
Ministere de l'Economie,                       Republique CentraEricaine
des Finances et du Plan                        Unite - Dignite - Travail
Cabinet
Le 29 Mai, 1987
Messieurs,
Le 25 Juillet 1986, le Gouvernement Centrafricain a adopte un
Programme d'Ajustement Structurel qui a recu l'appui de la Banque Mondiale.
Dane le cadre de ce programme nous nous sommes engages & prendre des
mesures d'urgence pour faire face a la crise cotonniere et prevenir
l'effrondrement de la culture du coton qui a constitu4 la ligne de force du
developpement agricole dans une large zone de notre pays et qui a fait
l'objet d'un projet soutenu par les partenaires bilatdraux et multilateraux
de la Rhpublique Centrafricaine.
Conscient du fait que le Programme d'urgence A lui seul ne
pourrait retablir la viabilitd economique de la filiere coton, le
Gouvernement a prepare un programme A moyen terme de restructuration de la
filibre dont le contenu detaill6 est expos4 dans le document ci-joint
intitul6 wD4claration de Politique Sectoriellel.
En appui a ce programme, nous sollicitons un concours financier
de la Banque Mondiale (IDA) et du Fonds Special d'Aide a l'Afrique
Subsaharienne.
Conme vous le constaterez a l'examen de notre programme, un
certain nombre de mesures y contenues sont deja prises au moment oI nous
vous adressons la presente, aussi souhaitons nous que notre requhte trouve
rapidement l'echo attendu et que l'appui financier sollicite nous soit
accorde das les premiers jours du mois de Juillet prochain.
Sachant pouvoir compter sur les Autorites de la Banque Mondiale
afin que diligence soit faite, nous vous prions de croire, Messieurs, en
l'assurance de notre parfaite consideration.
Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances
et du Plan
Dieudonn4 Wazoua
P.J.



- 44 -                      Annex V
Page 2 of 14
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF SECTORAL POLICY
Introduction
1.        The Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program of which the Cotton
Sector Adjustment Program is the first phase, forms an integral part of the
broader macroeconomic and structural adjustment program supported by IDA
under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and by the IMF under the
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF). The program's overall objective is
to achieve real GDP growth of 3.5% by 1990, through:
(a) an agriculture-led growth strategy based on comparative
advantage;
(b) a redefinition of the Government's role in the economy, limiting
it as far as possible to provision of social services and
priority infrastructure leaving production of goods and services
to private initiative;
(c) greater incentives to the private sector in agriculture,
forestry, mining, and small-scale industry, thereby creating
employment; and
(d) improvement in the management of the remaining parapublic sector
coupled with a public administration reform, including reducing
staff and upgrading their quality.
2.        The agricultural sector adjustment program, being a part of the
macro-economic adjustment program, shares the same objective -- accelerated
growth in the medium-term - and the same strategy, lesser government role
in the production of goods and services. The medium-term growth objective
of the cotton sub-sector will be achieved by a substantial restructuring of
the industry to increase its competitiveness and allow the cotton sector to
take off when exogenous conditions improve.
3.        The detailed cotton sector adjustment program which the
Government will implement over the next three years is detailed below
following a short history of cotton production in the CAR and a description
of the conditions that led Government to ask for IDA support.
History of the Cotton Sector
4.        Cotton production which started in the CAR several decades ago
was one of the main foreign exchange resources of the country until the
1970s when the country underwent a period of economic and social
turbulence. In 1980, the Government launched a cotton sector
rehabilitation program which was expanded in 1982 and supported by IDA and
other donors through an integrated rural development project in the cotton
zone. The project aimed at improving extension and research and at



- 45 -                      Annex V
Page 3 of 14
developing orrehabilitating basic infrastructure. At project start,
producer prices were raised; they went from CFAF 60/kg in 1981/82 to CFAF
100/kg in 1984/85. As a result, production jumped from 17,000 tons to
45,500 tons.
5.        While the sector was undergoing this dramatic recovery, cotton
prices pltnged from CFAF 725/kg in January 1985 to CFAF 245/kg in August
1986. Due to its obligation to purchase cotton at the official producer
price, SOCADA ran into severe financial difficulties. The company was
una'ale to repay its seasonal credit to local banks. By end-1986, its debt
amounted to over CFAF 8 billion, or one-fourth of the total credit to the
economy.
6.        The cotton crisis occurs at a time when Government's financial
position is precarious due to a drop in commodity prices coupled with the
decline of the dollar. Prices for tobacco, cotton, wood and coffee fell
one after the other, making a deep dent in Government fiscal receipts and
CAISTAB's revenues. Given the size of the financial gap, SAL funds will be
insufficient for Government to balance its 1987 budget. The cotton crisis
has thus become a threat not only to the banking system but also to the
Government overall adjustment and development program.
7.        This situation led IDA to host in December 1986, at Government
request, a meeting of donors in an attempt to obtain additional financial
assistance for the CAR cotton sector whose socioeconomic importance is very
large since it provides monetary revenue to about one third of the rural
population. At the meeting, the World Bank representatives agreed in
principle to propose to their management the financing of the Emergency
Program through a specific Credit to be prepared in consultation with other
donors and with the following prerequisites: (a) good macro-economic
performance; and (b) progressive shift from the prevailing producer pricing
system to a flexible system of unsubsidized prices. The World Bank
expressed the wish that a consultant group be recruited in January to study
the economic viability of the sector. An appraisal mission, to be joined
by other donors, would examine together with the consultants the concrete
measures taken by Government in the framework of the Emergency Program and
formulate a medium-term program aimed at restablishing the economic
viability of the sector.
8.        The Bank specified that its Credit would contribute to the
Emergency Program by financing the 1987/88 campaign and would initiate the
medium-term adjustment program as early as 1988/89. Meanwhile it would put
in place, upon Government request, appropriate financing to prepare the
operation. On its part, CCCE agreed to fund all the financial needs of the
1986/87 campaign (excluding 1986 Stabex contribution).
9.        The terms of reference for a medium-term study of the cotton
sector which was necessary to underpin the adjustment program were drafted
in Washington by a tripartite group including representatives from the CAR
Government, CCCE, and the World Bank. Later, the Government hired a



- 46 -                      Annex V
Page 4 of 14
consulting firm to undertake the study in order to accelerate preparation
of the program. The study's conclusions constitute the basis for the
program described below which Government agrees to implement over three
years (fiscal years 1988 through 1990). In addition, Government will take
into account the oil market study and the study on the diversification of
marginal cotton areas which are being carried out under the Emergency
Program. Finally, Government will undertake the preparation of an
integrated rural development project in the cotton zone.
The Medium-Term Adjustment Program
A. Objective
10.       The medium-term adjustment program aims at improving the economic
efficiency of the cotton sector and paving the way for a broader based
agricultural development strategy in heretofore cotton areas through incen-
tive and institutional reforms. The incentive reform consists of (a)
establishing a schedule of margins ('tbareme") to contain intermediate costs
for collection, processing and marketii.g activities; (b) eliminating input
subsidies (already underway); (c) adopting a new producer price setting
mechanism which would ultimately allow to adjust production to world market
prices; (d) paying an export subsidy to cotton producers to offset the
impact of exchange rate distortions; and (e) establishing a Cotton Fund for
the purposes of stabilization and receipt of cotton subsidies which would
be managed by the cotton industry.
11.       The institutional reform aims at separating SOCADA's industrial
and commercial activities from its rural development activities, with the
final objective of (a) privatizing the cotton collection, processing and
marketing activities in order to minimize intermediate costs; and (b)
broadening the scope of rural development activities to encompass the whole
farming system, thereby alleviating productivity bottlenecks and
identifying diversification possibilities; and transfering those activities
at the appropriate time to structures that will be defined following the
conclusions of the study on the reorganization of the Ministry of Rural
Development.
12.       The year 1987/88 will be a period of transition during which
appropriate measures will be taken to pursue the above objectives.
B. Incentive Reform
13.       Barame.  Intermediaries in cotton purchase, ginning and marketing
will be made to operate within the framework of a "bareme", or a schedule
that will set intermediaries' margins at a predetermined level. The
structure of the bareme, decomposed into fixed costs and variable costs and
showing clearly the yearly adjustment mechanisms, will be defined by a
study to be completed before the end of October 1987. The bareme will be
set in decreasing amounts for the first three years to reflect cost
reductions arising from the restructuring program and thereafter it will be
maintained in real terms.



- 47 -                      Annex V
Page 5 of 14
14.       Input Subsidies.  In line with the emergency program, fertilizer
and insecticide subsidies have been reduced from 33% and 46% in 1986/87 to
20% and 25% in 1987/88 respectively. They will be eliminated in 1988/89.
As far as insecticides are concerned, an exception to the elimination of
subsidies could be made if the results of a study provided justification
satisfactory to IDA and the Government that the elimination should be
reconsidered.
15.       Producer Prices.  A new system will be established to set the
producer price for the various grades of cotton. The pricing system will
include a floor price to be announced on February 1, and a purchase price
to be announced on November 1.
16.       The floor Brice will be calculated as the residual value of a
reference export price plus export subsidy less intermediate costs. The
reference export price will be determined on the basis of a formula that
takes into account recent price trends. Agreement on the floor price
formula will be reached before release of the second tranche. The floor
price will not be lower than CFAF 100/kg for the next two seasons (1988/89
and 1989/90).  The export subsidy will be a set percentage of the export
price. This percentag3 will be reviewed annually. The review will take
place in November of each year. Intermediate costs will be the costs of
cotton purchase, processing and marketing that will prevail after
restructuring.
17.       The purchase price will be calculated on the basis of the export
price that is likely to prevail at export time, that is on the basis of
short-term price forecasts and sales already made. The purchase price will
be equal to the likely export price plus export subsidy less actual
intermediate costs. If the actual purchase price falls below the floor
price, the floor price will prevail.
18.       Production Subsidy.  During the period of adjustment a subsidy
will be paid to the cotton sector, which for analytical purpose, can be
described as consisting of two elements: the export subsidy and the subsidy
on intermediate costs (defined as the difference between intermediate costs
planned in any given year and those that should prevail after
restructuring). At the end of the adjustment period, in 1990, the subsidy
on intermediate costs will be eliminated. The export subsidy will be
maintained so long as exchange rate distortions persist.
19.       The export subsidy and, during the adjustment period, the subsidy
on intermediate costs will be included in the Government budget. They will
be paid directly to SOCADA until the creation of the Cotton Fund on
November 1, 1988. From that date onwards, the Fund will receive the
corresponding budgetary subsidy. Government will disburse the total amount
of the 1987/88 subsidy to SOCADA in accordance with a disbursement plan
based on SOCADA's cash flow needs. Each subsequent year the total amount
of the relevant subsidy for that year will be disbursed in a similar manner
to the Fund.



- 48 -                       Annex V
Page 6 of 14
20.       Producers and processors will be the majority owners of the
Cotton Fund. The Fund will serve twio main purposes: first, to receive the
budgetary subsidy, second, to operate a stabilization mechanism between the
actual export price and the export price used in determining the purchase
price ("bareme" export price). If during the marketing year, world prices
fall below the "bar6me" export price, the Fund will intervene to finance
the difference.  If, world prices increase above the "barame" export price,
the Fund will levy 90% of the differerce. The Fund will have three
accounts: a subsidy account which will be funded through the budget; a
stabilization accou'nt which will be initially funded by a budgetary
contribution and thereafter by the difference between actual and "bareme"
export price; and an operating account which will be funded from the
stabilization account.
C. Institutional Reform
21.       During the transition period (1987188) which corresponds to the
period of the proposed Credit, the institutional reform comprise three
broad types of measures:
(a) trim down SOCADA's structure at all levels, decentralize
responsibilities to the regional and ginnery levels, and separate
the management of industrial and commercial activities from that
of rural development activities;
(b) search private operators who could take over the management of
SOCADA's commercial and industrial activities (seed and input
distribution, credit in kind, seed cotton, purchase, credit
recovery, ginning and exportation); negotiate with potential
private ^perators; and, given the results of those negotiations,
retain the best option for the privatization; and
(c) maintain research, extension and other public sector activities
within SOCADA, until appropriate structures have been put in
place; and trim down and improve the capacity of those services
during the adjustment period, the duplication of activities being
avoided.
22.       The target set for privatizing the management of SOCADA's
commercial and industrial activities is November 1, 1988.  In March 1988,
Government, in connection with other donors will ascertain the feasibility
of those targets and agree on revisions as appropriate. Since the process
of institutional reform will require a longer timeslan than the proposed
Credit period, it will be supported under follow-up IDA financed operations
(SAL II, and Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit).



-49 -                        Annex V
Page 7 of 14
D. Action Program
23.       The implementation of the adjustment program will necessarily
involve a series of measures, the full list of which is in Attachment to
this Statement. The key steps which constitute the conditions for
releasing the Credit funds are listed below.
24.       The following actions have been taken or will be taken before
Board presentation:
(a)  execute the emergency program according to the agreed timetable,
in particular the program of staff reduction (287 staff to leave
before June 1987) and reduction of input subsidies to 20% and 25%
respectively for fertilizer and pesticides;
(b)  aunounce producer prices for the 1987/88 season at 100 CFAF/kg
for white cotton, and at 85 CFAF/kg for yellow and unsorted
cotton;
(c)  complete the cotton studv and discuss with IDA its conclusions,
including detailed organizational arrangements for introducing:
(i) schedule of intermediate margins ("barame");
(ii) formula for setting floor producer prices;
(iii) mechanism for setting actual purchase prices;
(iv) mechanism for payment of budgetary subsidies;
(v)  organization and operations of the Cotton Fund; and
(vi) plan and timetable for decentralizing SOCADA and separating
the management of industrial and commercial activities from
those of rural development;
(d) submit to IDA SOCADA's audit report for fiscal year 1985/86; and
(e) launch the UNDP financed study on the reorganization of MRD and
the redefinition of the role of rural development agencies.
25.       The following actions will bA taken before the release of the
second tranche:
(a)  appoint a Committee satisfactory to IDA to supervise the
implementation of the Sectoral Adjustment Program (it could be a
subcommittee of the existing SAL Supervisory Committee);
(b)  preselect in July 1987 a team of two consultants (economist and
financial analyst) to establish the "bareme" for the next three
years in line with the program of cost-reductions;



- 50 -                      Annex V
Page 8 of 14
(c) enact the decree establishing the new producer price setting
mechanism in accordance with paragraphs 15, 16 and 17; and launch
an information campaign to explain to producers the new pricing
system;
(d) repay SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears for an amount of no less than CFAF
3.0 billion to the local banks;
(e) cancel the agreement between CAISTAB and SOCADA which provided
for CAISTAB's guarantee to cover SOCADA's losses and for the
countervailing transfer of SOCADA's profits to the CAISTAB;
(f) budget the 1988 cotton sector subsidies as defined in paragraphs
18 and 19; prepare a subsidy disbursement plan for the year
1987/88; and establish an agreement satisfactory to IDA between
Government and the ginnery operator(s) for the payment of
budgetary subsidies, including a clause stating that any subsidy
from other sources would result in the automatic reduction of the
budgetary subsidy by an equivalent amount;
(g) employ a management controller, to be financed by IDA,
responsible to the supervisory Committee whose role will be to
control program implementation, to contribute to setting the
"bar4me" and to verify its application, to authorize payment of
the budgetary subsidies and to screen Credit withdrawal
applications;
(h) set the "bar6me" for the next three years;
(i) adopt a plan and a timetable for changing SOCADA's organization
with a view to trimming down and decentralizing its structure,
and initiating the separation of its two broad types of
activities; most notably:
-    appoint regional directors, with the profile of managers,
who will be responsible mainly for the management of
commercial and industrial activities (namely, seed cotton
purchase, transport, garages, ginning, cotton fiber
expedition, input delivery at the GIR or zone level, and
credit recovery). The regional director will be seconded by
a deputy who will be responsible mainly for rural
development activities (extension, draft power, training);
-    adopt accounting and financing methods that provide for the
clear separation of industrial and commercial activities
from rural development activities;



-51-                         Annex V
Page 9 of 14
-    reduce the number of technical advisors at the level of
SOCADA to eight (with the exception of "VSN" and research
service and road unit advisors who are financed by FAC and
FED respectively); and
-    reduce the number of extension agents to 200; and
(j) employ a high level negotiator, to report to the supervisory
Committee whose role will be to search candidates for taking over
the management of the ginneries, to prepare contracts and to
negotiate.
26.       The following actions will be taken before the release of the
third tranche:
(a) repay in full SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears to the local banks;
(b) announce producer prices for the 1988/89 season in line with the
new pricing system and eliminate input subsidies in accordance
with paragraph 14;
(c)  submit to IDA SOCADA's Audit report for 1986/87, and the
management controller's report on the implementation of the
adjustment program;
(d) complete SOCADA's structural reorganization in line with the
agreed plan (para 25 (i));
Ce) payment by Government of the subsidies to the ginnery operator in
accordance with the disbursement plan;
(f) submission of the negotiator's report, including:
- a plan of action;
- an implementation schedule;
- the conditions for the take over of SOCADA's commercial and
industrial activities or for management contracts; and
- the identification of purchasers or managers;
(g) review of the negotiator's report by Government and IDA for
approval;
(h) start of negotiations;
(i) enact the statutes for the creation of the Cotton Fund; and



- 52 -                       Annex V
Page 10 of 14
(j) completa UNDP-financed study on MRD reorganization; and define a
coordination mechanism for research at national level following
conclusions of the study.
Management and Administration of the Cotton Sector Adjustment Program
27.       The Government will establish an inter-ministerial Committee to
supervise the preparation and implementation of the adjustment program,
under the leadership of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning. In
addition to members of the MEFP, the Committee will include high level
representatives of MRD, the Presidency, the Commerce Ministry, the High
Commission for State Enterprises, the BEAC and the local banks. This
committee could be a sub-committee of the existing SAL Supervisory
Committee. The Committee will meet at least every three months to take
stock of progress and decide on eventual remedial actions. It will be
supported by the work of the management controller who will prepare
quarterly reports on program implementation. The report and the minutes of
the Committee meetings will be submitted to IDA.



-53 -                       Annex V
Page 11 of 14
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Monitorable Action Program
Drder                         Agency
amber         Date          Responsible                         Action
I       January thru        SOCADA          Implement Emergency Program of cost and
June 1987                        staff'reductions (including the
departure of 287 staff).
2        April 1987           MRD          Launch the Study on MRD reorganization.
3        April 1987           MRD           Set for the 1987/88 season input prices
in line with schedule of subsidy
reductions (i.e., subsidies of 20% for
fertilizer and 25% for insecticides).
4        April 1987           MRD           Set producer prices for the 1987/88
season at CFAF 100/kg for white cotton
and CFAF 85/kg for yellow cotton.
5         May 1.987        MRD/MEFP        Complete and discuss with IDA
medium-term study of cotton sector,
including detailed description of:
- schedule of intermediate margins
("bar4me");
- formula for setting floor producer
prices;
- mechanism for setting purchase
prices;
- mechanism for payment of budgetary
subsidies;
- organization and operations of
Cotton Fund;
- plan and timetable for decentralizing
SOCADA and separating the management
of Industrial and commercial
activities from that of rural
development activities.
6         May 1987          SOCADA         Submit SOCADA's 1985/86 Audit report to
IDA.
7         July 1987          MEFP          Appoint a supervisory committee for the
Cotton Sector Adjustment Program.



-54-                         Annex V
Page 12 of 14
Order                         Agency
Number         Date          Responsible                          Action
R         July 1987        MRD/MEFP         Preselect consultancy team to
establish the "bar&me"; and initiate
recruitment procedures.
9         July 1987          HCSE           Initiate search for firms to provide
negotiating services for the
privatization of SOCADA's commercial
activities.
10         July 1987       MRD/SOCADA       Adopt plan and timetable for reorganizing
SOCADA, in accordance with para 25 (i)
of the Sectoral Policy Statement.
11      September 1987   MEPP/CAISTAB       Cancel the agreement between CAISTAB and
SOCADA
12      September 1987      Committee       Complete pre-selection of candidates for
the position of management controller.
13      September 1987      Committee       Complete pre-selection of firms for the
provision of negotiating services.
14      September 1987      MRD/MEFP        Consultancy team starts working on the
"bar6me".
15      Sept.-Oct. 1987      SOCADA         Undertake study on the impact of the
elimination of pesticide subsidies.
16      Sept.-Oct. 1987      SOCADA         Reformulate research program to
incorporate economic considerations.
17       October 1987        SOCADA         Replace the Deputy General Manager.
18       October 1987         MEFP          Recruit management controller.
19       October 1987       Committee       Submit to IDA proposed decree
establishing new mechanism for setting
producer prices in accordance with
principles set out in the Statement of
Sectoral Policy.
20       October 1987         MEFP          Repay at least CFAF 3 billion of SOCADA's
1985/86 arrears to local banks.
21       October 1987       Committee       Recruit firm to provide negotiating
services.



55                         Annex V
Page 13 of 14
Order                         Agency
Number         Date          Responsible                          Action
22       October 1987       MRD/MEFP         Complete establishment of barame for
next three years.
23       October 1987        SOCADA          Notify redundant staff of their release
by February 1988.
24       October 1987      SOCADA/MRD/       Establish an agreement between
NEFP          Government and the ginnery operator(s)
for the payment of budgetary subsidies,
including a clause stating that any
subsidy from other sources would result
in the automatic reduction of the
budgetary subsidy by an equivalent
amount.
25       October 1987        SOCADA         Appoint regional managers.
26       November 1987       SOCADA          Submit to MEFP a cash flow table
indicating SOCADA's financing needs for
1987/88.
27       November 1987        MEFP          MEFP establishes and forwards to IDA a
subsidy disbursement plan.
28       December 1987        MEFP          Agree with IDA on export subsidy rate to
be used in determining the producer
price, and finalize amount of budgetary
subsi4y for the year 1987/88.
29       December 1987         MRD          Enact the decree establishing the new
producer price setting mechanism.
30       December 1987         MRD          Complete UNDP financed study on MRD
reorganization.
31       January 1987       Committee       Submit negotiator's report to IDA.
32       February 1988       SOCADA         Complete SOCADA's reorganization in
accordance with agreed plan, in
particular release all redundant staff.
33       February 1988      Committee       Review negotiator's report for approval
by Government and IDA.
34       February 1988       HMP            Repay SOCADA's 1985/86 arrears in full
to local banks.



- 56-                        Annex V
Page 14 of 14
Order                         Agency
Nmbe-r         Date          Responsible                          Action
35       February 1988        MEFP           Enact the statutes for the creation of a
Cotton Fund.
36        March 1988          HCSE           Establish the terms and conditions for
the privatization of the ginneries.
37        March 1988           M4RD          Decree producer prices in accordance
with agreed pricing system.
38        March 1988           MRD           Eliminate subsidies on fertilizer, and
on pesticides in accordance with
Sectoral Policy Statement.
39        March 1988          HEFP           Submit to IDA management controller's
report.
40        March 1988        Committee        Complete preselection of private
operators.
41        March 1988          HCSE           Initiate negotiations with private
operators.
42        March 1988           MRD           Prepare a rural development project in
the cotton zone.
43        March 1988           MRD           Define coordination mechanism for
research at national level following the
conclusions of the UNDP study.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIQUE
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRIC-ANE
COTTON SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT POUR L'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE
Cotton Areas / Zones Cotonnieres
80                                                                                                       D
To Moundou           .      .
d't - A  _jR-          4koUndQ~~Mrko nd
Batang1
Bocornga                     0                                 UA
T /        <\   OUHAM                                           
9,Ct<   j (@-+aPENDE
BOSSANGOA                  Bouc
BOZOUM~~~~~~~oub
To BertoaBL
NANA- MAMBERE
16°
Apptied Research and Seed Multiplic
001.                                                                        0       Recherche d'Accomnpagnement et
j   C  H  A  D                                         1                MuI4tip/wacion de Semences.
C   H   A   D'                       UDA          IGinneries                              Tonn
Usines       ge          Centre de
_____ ,.              .                      |     _        Primary Roads
N.                   __                                          H I             Routes Pf/nc/po/es
Secondary Roads
Zh >   N    (>  -\1   |Routes Secondaires
'N. j  *- -,dF8>  ,,\    \*\   I  fleuves
CENTU   ?, AF;hCN            REPUBLIC                                   Socodo's Region Limits Prior to 1987/8
0-                                                                                    timites Rgions Socada Avant de 1987
ii5 i:-.s. S    Alindao    Regional Centers
LLJ                                                  Atindoo   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centras RMglonoux
8ongui~    r                                             ._*    Department Limits
l imltes de?s Ddpartements
Internotional Boundaries
\.r           y               Z  A   I R   E                   -               u/nbites Internotlonales
t PEOPLE'S1
OFTHE CONGO J_8



IBRD 20613
20°
To                                                . rh41/                NDELE
/    \    $              BAMINGUI- BANGORAN
HAUTE KOTTO
/  r . / ,, .                                                                      3
Bamingvu
-                   ~~~GRIBlINGU I                   vw>
9   /  XECONOMIQUE
KAGA BANDORO
Mbres      I                                                      I                BRIAr~
jca
N) D6koa
~~~BakalaA 
r   '    ~~~~~K E    0                                                   OUA                                                        °
G  R IB  l          G  U  lIj                                
)Ihcat on                  4l_
a Center                                                                                                     lindao
de Formation
/  .                                k                       > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BASS   0 OTO| 
/    */ ~~~~~~~Z  A   I  R                                                                        E  E0
T/88 Season                                                                   _              ;I 
'87/88 Periode                     Ths m3p has bee.n prepated by
V7  d,                   The ~~~~~~~~~~World aank s staff ekaclsvel,y
fa ha conren,ece of Vie
..001                   treaders andn s exclusey tor the                                              AYE
BANGU I                                                          nlrnlsolebrAdYEk 
.nte'nat use, Ot The V/od Bank
BANGUI            and the htemabo,nal F'w,nance
C orporat,on The denonanar,ons                                                          W     *
used asnd the boundsanes shown
\                  ~~~~~~~~~on iths nmao dO not rnply, on the
IPatofTheat orldnar nanrdthe             0                50              100              150 Km.
srifekatronal fJnance EorportonL.
i~~~~~~~~~af pgany neto the Aegtat status
h                 ~~~~~~~~~of any temntory rv- any
|                  an~~~~~~~~dorsernent a, alerplance of
I                  ~~~~~~~~~su-h bounidanes  20°
- tz      -           t                         --                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1987



