Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1836 CA
(Cotton Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 17, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1836 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1987, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the   
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 29, 1987 from the 
Borrower stating its policies in the cotton sector and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of policy reforms (the "Program") aiming at reducing the 
shortcomings of the cotton industry and at establishing the basis for a broader 
agricultural development strategy, declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the  
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports and services required during 
such execution;
(B)
Pursuant to Section F of the Resolution No. IDA 85-1, of May 21, 1985 
(the "Resolution") the Government of Japan ("Japan") has agreed to provide Japanese 
Page  2
funds in the form of grants (the "SJF Grants") in support of programs of structural 
change, policy reform and institutional improvement in countries  which are eligible 
for financing from the resources of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the 
"African Facility");
(C)
by the notes exchanged between Japan and IDA on November 20, 1985, (the 
"Notes") concerning the SJF Grants, Japan and IDA agreed that IDA will act as 
administrator (the "Administrator") of the Japanese funds in accordance with the 
provisions of the Notes;
(D)
the Borrower has requested Japanese funds from the Administrator for the 
financing of part of the Project, in an amount equivalent to two hundred  and twenty 
five million Japanese Yens (225,000,000) and the Administrator has  determined that 
provision of such funds (the "Japanese Grant") on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the "Japanese Grant Agreement") of even  date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Administrator would be in  accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution and the Notes;
(E)
under the Notes concerning the provision of Japanese funds in the form of 
loans as a part of Japan's cooperation with the African Facility the Borrower intends 
to obtain from the Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund  (hereinafter called 
"OECF") a loan (the "OECF Loan") in an amount equivalent to six hundred million 
Japanese Yens (600,000,000) to assist in the financing of
part of the Project under the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
"OECF Loan  Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Saudi Fund for Development a 
loan (the "Saudi Loan") in an amount of nine million Saudi Rials  (SR9,000,000) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the "Saudi Fund Agreement") to be  entered into between the Borrower and 
the Saudi Fund for Development; and
(G)
on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program of Policy Reforms referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
Page  3
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CAISTAB" means Caisse de Stabilisation et de la Perequation des Prix des 
Produits Agricoles, the Borrower's agricultural price stabilization fund,  established 
by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 80.048 dated June 12, 1980;
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Comite de Suivi" means the interministerial committee established by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement with the  task of 
supervising the preparation and implementation of the Program;
(d)
"Intermediation Margin" for any given type of cotton means the 
difference, in a given period of time, between the CIF prices paid by the foreign 
importers and the prices paid to the producers in the Borrower's territory;
(e)
"MRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development;
 
(f)
"SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade 
Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 3), published in Commodity Indexes for the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revised, Statistical  Papers, Series M, 
No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(g)
"SOCADA" means Societe Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole, a mixed 
economy company entrusted with the provision of inputs, processing and marketing of 
cotton and with the research, extension and other rural  development activities in the 
cotton zones of the Borrower's territory,  established by the Borrower's Ordonnance 
No. 80.001 dated January 2, 1980; and
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement,  an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
the Bangui Branch of the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale ("BEAC") a special 
account in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the  Association. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or such later  date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  4
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing on November 15, 1997, and  ending May 15, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2007 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Chairman of the Comite de Suivi is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required  or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts the Secretary of the Comite de Suivi with responsibility for  the preparation 
of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents 
and other evidence to be furnished to the  Association in support of such 
applications; such withdrawal applications  shall to the extent practicable be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 400,000) equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its  review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the  
Program, the Borrower shall employ the following consultants and experts who  shall 
report to the Comite de Suivi and whose qualifications, experience and  terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a team of consultants to establish the mechanisms for setting the  
Intermediation Margins for the three twelve-month periods starting from  November 1 of 
each year and ending on October 31 of the next following year,  the first such period 
to start on November 1, 1987 and the last to start on November 1, 1989;
(b)
a management controller to control implementation of the Program, to 
contribute to the setting of the mechanism referred to in paragraph (a) of  this 
Section, to verify its application, to authorize payment of the subsidies  in favor of 
the production of cotton, and to verify the applications for withdrawal referred to in 
Section 5.03 of the General Conditions; and
(c)
a negotiator to search candidates for and to negotiate the possible 
transfer of SOCADA's commercial activities to private operators as indicated in 
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Such consultants and experts shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
Retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
Enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  6
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Borrower's legal text establishing the Comite de Suivi shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of 
the Association.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of 
the 
Japanese Grant, the OECF Loan and the Saudi Loan 
shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated, in 
whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of any of the Japanese 
Grant Agreement, the OECF Loan 
Agreement and the Saudi 
Loan Agreement; or
(B)
any of the OECF Loan and the Saudi Loan shall have become 
due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds required during the execution of the Program 
are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events  specified in 
paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has established in due form the Comite de Suivi; and
 
(b)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association a short list of the 
consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
State Secretariat for Planning, Statistics and Economic and Financial Cooperation of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower  for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Secretariat for Planning,
   Statistics and Economic and
   Financial Cooperation
P.O. Box 696
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5208 RC
Bangui
Central African Republic
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Christian Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  8
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in  respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required during the  execution of the Program and to be financed 
out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for items in the following SITC groups or sub-groups:
 
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious stones, unworked
                                        or worked
        -         718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel
                                        elements (cartridges),
                                        non-irritated for nuclear
                                        reactors
        -         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals
                                        (except watches and watch
                                        cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths' wares
                                        (including set gems)
     971            -                   Gold, non-monetary
                                        (excluding gold ores and
                                        concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services  
supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding: (i) if the currency of  the 
Borrower is also that of another country, expenditures in such currency  for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of such other country; and (ii) withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 300,000) on account of operating and 
equipping expenses of MRD;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Japanese Grant Account  (as 
defined in the General Conditions applicable to the Japanese Grant Agreement) in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of two million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000) may be made on account of payments made for 
such expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1987;
(d)
expenditures for goods and services procured under contracts costing  
less than ten thousand Dollars ($10,000) equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a contract which any 
Page  9
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption;
(g)
expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs, except for 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Japanese Grant Account in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of two million nine hundred  thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000); and
(h)
expenditures for consultants and experts exceeding the equivalent of five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 500,000).
3.
Except for the financing of expenditures for consultants and experts and for the 
financing of operating and equipping expenses of MRD for an aggregate total amount 
equivalent to eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 800,000), no 
withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to the 
Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Japanese Grant:
(a)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit and the Japanese Grant 
withdrawn from the  Credit Account and the Japanese Grant Account and the total amount 
of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of six million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000), unless  the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: 
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and 
(ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been 
taken and are satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit and the Japanese  Grant 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Japanese Grant Account and the  total amount 
of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of ten million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,000,000) unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to  this 
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
4.
If, after any such exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied and 
this situation shall not be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days after  notice 
thereof by the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of one 
million Dollars ($1,000,000) or more each shall be awarded through international 
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following 
modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a 
bidder's invitation list, to apply for 
prequalification, or to bid; such 
advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in 
the Borrower's 
country and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
Page  10
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the 
bidder 
to state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for goods to be imported by the Borrower or its public sector 
entities, and estimated to cost the equivalent of less than one million  Dollars 
($1,000,000) each, as well as contracts for goods to be imported by  entities other 
than the Borrower or its public sector entities shall be awarded on the basis of the 
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,  the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the  Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and  such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule,  the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the  Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably request 
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract or the documentation and the  information to be furnished 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of  paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from  the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
A.
For purposes of the release of the Second Tranche
 
1.
The Borrower has established a producer price setting system for cotton  which 
provides for automatic adjustments to world market prices and includes:
(i)
a minimum producer price (the "Floor Price") which shall be 
announced before 
February 1 of each year following a formula adopted 
by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Association; such 
Floor Price shall be of not less than 
CFAF 100 per kilo for the first 
quality seed cotton during the two 
twelve-month periods 
starting from February 1, 1988 and February 1, 1989 
respectively; 
Page  11
and
(ii)
a final producer price ("the Purchase Price") to be announced 
before November 
1 of each year following a formula based on the 
anticipated export price of 
cotton for the forthcoming marketing 
season plus the export subsidies less the 
Intermediation Margins.
 
2.
The Borrower has established a subsidy system in favor of any ginnery operator 
providing, inter alia, that any amounts funded out of the Borrower's budget shall be 
reduced by the amount of any other subsidy benefitting such ginnery operator, such 
system to be in accordance with the mechanism set forth in the letter referred to in 
Section (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower has prepared a disbursement plan for payment of the subsidies 
provided under Section  A.2 of this Schedule for the period November 1, 1987 to 
October 31, 1988.
4.
The Borrower has appointed the consultants and experts referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
5.
The Borrower has set the Intermediation Margins for the three twelve-month 
periods starting from November 1, 1987, 1988 and 1989 respectively.
6.
SOCADA has adopted a plan and a reorganization schedule to streamline and  
decentralize its structure, to initiate the separation of the management and  
accounting of its processing and marketing activities from that of its rural  
development activities, to appoint a new Deputy Manager, to appoint regional managers 
and to reduce its extension staff.
7.
The Borrower has repaid SOCADA's arrears to the banking system for the period 
November 1, 1985 to October 31, 1986 for an amount of not less than three million CFAF 
(CFAF 3,000,000).
8.
SOCADA and CAISTAB have terminated the convention regulating the relationship 
among themselves.
B.
For purposes of the release of the Third Tranche
 
1.
The Borrower has:
 
(a)
submitted the report of the controller referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement on the implementation of the Program;
(b)
announced the Floor Price and the Purchase Price for the 1988/1989 cotton 
marketing season; and
(c)
revised the input subsidies on fertilizers and insecticides, in  
accordance with the mechanisms set Forth in the letter referred to in Section (A) of 
the Preamble to this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower has completed the study on MRD's reorganization and has defined 
coordination mechanisms for agricultural research following the recommendations of the 
same study.
3.
The Borrower has established a Cotton Sector Fund in which the majority shall be 
reserved to representatives of the private sector.
4.
The negotiator referred to in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement has submitted 
an action plan, including:
(a)
an implementation schedule;
 
(b)
the terms and conditions of an offer to take over SOCADA's processing and 
marketing activities or to enter into a management agreement with SOCADA; and
(c)
the identification of the counterparty to take over or manage such 
activities, as the case may be.
Page  12
5.
The Borrower has paid to the ginnery operator(s) the subsidies provided for in 
Section A.2 of this Schedule for the period November 1, 1987 to October 31, 1988.
6.
SOCADA has:
 
(a)
submitted to the Association its accounts for its 1986/1987 fiscal  year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
completed the reorganization referred to in Section A.6 of this Schedule.
 
7.
The Borrower has repaid the unpaid balance of SOCADA's arrears to the banking 
system due for the period November 1, 1985 to October 31, 1986.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the  
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance  with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to six  
hundred million CFAF (CFAF 600,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit  Account and 
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each 
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account  in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the  evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Page  13
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the amount of 
any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Program, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the  Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
