                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No.:42868




                 PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                       ETHIOPIA

          ROAD SECTORDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORTPROJECT
                           (RSDP PHASE I) CREDIT3032-ET



                                     March 10,2008




Sector, Thematicand Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (WorldBank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit =Ethiopian Birr (ETB)




Abbreviations and Acronyms

AfDB         African Development Bank
DFID         Department of InternationalDevelopment,UK
DM0          District Maintenance Organizations
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERA          Ethiopian Road Authority
EU           European Union
GOE          Government of Ethiopia
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fk Technische Zusarnmenarbeit
ICR          Implementation CompletionReport
IDA          International Development Association
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
IEGWB        Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
MMS          Maintenance Management System
NDF          Nordic Development Fund
NPV          Net Present Value
PMS          Pavement Management System
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
W A          Road Fund Administration
RIU          Roads Inspectorate Unit
RMI          Road Management Initiative
RRO          Regional States Roads Organizations
RSDP         Road Sector Development Program
RSDPSP       Road Sector Development Program Support Project
RTTP         Rural Travel and Transport Program
SSATP        Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
Fiscal Year

Government:      The Ethiopian fiscal year is based on the Coptic calendar; in terms of the
Gregorian calendar this equates to July 8 -July 7.


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                  : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)       :  Ms. Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation           :  Ms. Soniya Carvalho (Acting)
Task Manager                                              : Mr. Peter Freeman

 IEGWBMission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activities of theWorld Bank for two purposes:
first. to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expected results,and second, to help developimproveddirections, policies, and procedures through the
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, IEGWBannuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations throughfield work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
that are innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management haverequestedassessments; and thosethat are likely to generate
importantlessons.
       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR), IEGWB staff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in localoffices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEGWB Rating System

       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, projectdesign, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definition and ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion
(additional informationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).

       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and
sectoral assistancestrategiesand corporategoals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacyis the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the opportunity cost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possibleratingsfor Outcome: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory.Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.

      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expectedoutcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratings for Risk fo DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.

      Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supportedeffective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operationof supportedactivities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievementof development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratingsfor Bank Performance: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies)ensured quality of preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of developmentoutcomes.The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance.Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory.Highly
Unsatisfactory.


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS..................................................................................................................... V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                    ..........................   .............................................................................V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................Vll

SUMMARY     ...................................................................................................................................... IX


I.      BACKGROUND               ............................................................................................................       1


2.      THE PROJECT             .................................................................................................................   2

        Project Objectives            ..........................................................................................................2
        Project Components and Cost                        .......................................................................................3

3.      IMPLEMENTATION                 ............... ..    ...................................................................................... 4

        Quality at Entry (QAE)               ......................................................................................................4
        Implementation Experience                     ............................................................................................. 4


4.      MONITORING AND EVALUATION                               ...................................................................................5

        Design     ............................................................................................................................... - 5

        Implementation.................................................................................................................. 6

        Utilization     ........................................................................................................................... 6


5.      OTHER ISSUES              ................................................................................................................  7


6.      RATINGS        ............................................................................................................................ 8

        Outcome............................................................................................................................. 8
        Relevance ..........................................................................................................................        8

        Efficiency ......................................................................................................................... 10


7.      LESSONS         ......................................................................................................................... 14


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET............................................................................................. 17
           .



This report was prepared by Peter Freeman. who assessed the project in September. 2007.Romayne Pereira
provided administrativesupport.


Principal Ratings

Road Sector Development Program Support Project (Credit 3032-ET)

                                         ICR*                 ICR Review*                     PPAR

Outcome                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Institutional           Substantial                Substantial
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                                         Negligibleto low
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***       Highly Likely              Highly Likely                      -
Bank                    Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance

* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1,2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessedas part of the Outcome rating.
***Asof July 1,2006, Sustainability has been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different,the ratings are not directly comparable.


Key Staff Responsible

Project             Task ManagedLeader                 Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                      Sector Director

Appraisal                 John Riverson             Yusupha Crookes              Oey Astra Meesook

Completion                John Riverson            Sanjivi Rajasingham               lshac Diwan


Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) for the Road Sector Development Program Support Project,
(Credit 3032-ET). The IDA credit to the Government of Ethiopia was approved by the
Board of Directors on January 15, 1998 in the amount of US$ 309.2 million. Total project
cost was US$ 538.1million, with US$214.0 million to be contributed by the
Government of Ethiopia (GOE), and US$ 14.9million through other donors and
financiers. The finalproject cost was US$ 534.2 million with a final amount of US$
306.5 million disbursed against the IDA credit (3032-ET) and US$ 14.5million disbursed
by the co-financiers. All funds were fully disbursed any differences between the initial
                                                     -


and final amounts were due to variations in exchange rates. Project effectiveness was four
months after approval and the closing date was extended by two years to May 31,2005.

The project was selected for assessment to better understand the effectiveness of a sector
investment program that included the establishment of a dedicated Road Fund and a
specific initiative to monitor and evaluate the program. It was also of interest because it
was supportedby multiple donors. The evaluation will provide a benchmark for a later
evaluation of Phases I1and I11of the program.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Document, Implementation Completion Report, legal agreements,project files and
archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions
were also held with Bank staff in both Washington D.C. and in Ethiopia. An IEG field
mission visited Ethiopia in September 2007, conducted site visits, and discussed both the
project and the effectiveness of Bank assistance with relevant officials and stakeholders,
including co-financiers. The mission appreciates the courtesies and attention given by
these interlocutors as well as the support provided by the Bank's office in Addis Ababa.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to government
officials and agencies for their review but no comments were received.


Summary

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Road Sector
Development Program Support Project (Credit 3032-ET)which was the first phase
(approved in 1998)of a multi-phase Road SectorDevelopment Program (RSDP) in
Ethiopia. At an estimated total project cost of US$ 538.1 million (and final cost of US$
534.2 million), this project provided for the institutional strengtheningof the Ethiopian
Road Agency and Road Fund to manage and maintain the core road network of the
country and to prepare the way for improvementsat the regional and district levels.

        The objective of the project was to contribute to Ethiopia's economic
developmentby:

   i.   Improving trunk and regional road access and utilization to meet the agricultural
        and other economic development needs;

  ..
  11.   Building up the institutionalcapacity in both the public and private sectors for
        sustainable road development and maintenance; and

 ...
 111.   Providing economic opportunityfor the rural poor both through increased
        employmentin rural road works and development of appropriateand affordable
        means of transport and services.

        Implementationwas hampered by some initial delays and cost overruns due to a
number of factors including mobilization problems caused by the border conflict between
Ethiopia and Eritrea, leadingto Ethiopia shifting its primary port of trade from Assab to
Djibouti.

        The Monitoring and Evaluationof this project was exceptionallywell done with
19indicators that were tracked by a Roads InspectorateUnit providing independent
reports on the performance of road sector operations. This system has been further
developed in the subsequentPhase I1 follow-on project and has been adopted by the
African Ministers of Transport/Infrastructureas best practice.

        The outcome of the project was satisfactoy.Relevance was high and endorsed in
the poverty alleviation strategy for the country and was deemed critical to ensuring that
food aid could be quickly distributedin times of natural disaster including drought. The
development objectives were satisfactorilyachieved and a good foundationcreated for
subsequentphases of the project. Rates of return were higher than anticipated at appraisal
in the range of 26-35 percent. The risk to development outcome is rated low to negligible
based on the measured performance of the subsequentphase (for example the proportion
of asphalt roads in good conditionrose fiom 17to 64 percent) and the continued support
of many development partners; the good coordination of these financiers and donors was
also a very positive factor.

        Bank performance was satisfactoly, showing thorough preparation and good,
proactive supervision practices. The Ethiopian Road Agency (ERA) was encouragedto

adopt a dispute resolutionmechanism involvingthe use of a panel of dispute resolution
experts which produced significantbenefits including the avoidance of costly arbitration.
The Bank also ensured support from the Sub-SaharanAhca Transport Policy Program,
especiallywith regard to road maintenance and rural travel and transport issues.

        Borrowerperformancewas also satisfactory.The Government of Ethiopia
showed strong commitment to the program and introduced the necessaryproclamations
establishing ERA, the Road Fund and a new compensationlaw in a timely manner.
Although ERA showed certain weaknesses initially, the effort at institutional
strengthening and especiallyadjustments in salariesto attract and retain key staff paid
off, so that by project closure enonnous progress had been achieved.

        This project was the first in a series of follow-onprojects planned on a
programmaticbasis with multi-donor support. It is recommended that a further evaluation
be conducted after Phases I1and I11of the RSDP have been concluded and the ICRs
prepared. The latter two phases have utilized Adaptable Program Lending instruments.
The main lessons from Phase I are as follows:

  i.    Even in a very low income country, a successfulinfrastructureprogram can be
        establishedwith strong government commitment, sound preparation,continuity of
        management and funding flow, and a coordinatedmulti-donor approach. The
        RSDP support project showed that the up-front focus on policy issues can
        contribute substantiallyto a successful outcome;

  ..
 11.    A successfulroads program needs to be monitored by means of establishing
        appropriate and practical indicatorswith a dedicatedunit to measure progress and
        report regularly to the decision-makers.The indicatorsneed to be able to establish
        progress with the softer issues such as income generation,improvements in skills
        levels, and creation of employmentopportunities;
 ...
111.    In a large road program, specific attentionneeds to be given to effective contract
        administration.The appointment of Dispute Resolution Experts can yield
        significantbenefits including avoidance of costly arbitration.




                                                       Vinod Thomas
                                                       Director-General
                                                         Evaluation

 1.     Background

 1.1    Ethiopia is a landlocked country located in the Horn of Africa. Currently,virtually
all (98 percent) of its imports and exports are routed through the port facilities in
neighboringDjibouti. Ethiopia is Sub-SaharanAfrica's second most populated country
afterNigeria, with 76.5' million inhabitantsand is renowned for its distinctive cultural
heritage and varied topography.

 1.2    The country, however, suffers from widespread poverty with more than half the
rural population living below the poverty line and less than a quarter with access to safe
water. Most urban inhabitants live in slum conditions,characterizedby overcrowdingand
lack of sanitation.This situation has been exacerbated by drought, civil unrest and
warfare; in 1984-85 Ethiopia experienced a catastrophicfamine as a result of which more
than a million people died. Because the countryrelies heavily on subsistenceagriculture
it remains vulnerableto a failure of the annual rains, and thus the existence of a sound
basic road network to distribute food aid remains criticallyimportant.

1.3     At the end of 2006, the overall road network comprised 39,477 km of which
19,313krn were federal roads. About 95 percent of Ethiopia's passenger and freight
traffic uses the road system and it is the only means of access to the widely scatteredrural
communities.But despite ongoing efforts to expand the road network the country still has
one of the lowest road densities in Afkica (36 km per 1,000sq km in 2006, compared
with an Afican average of 60 km per 1,000sq

1.4     Against this background, the Road SectorDevelopment Program (RSDP) was
establishedin 1997, supportedby multiple donors, and after 2003, Adaptable Program
Lending(APL) instruments were adopted designedto support long-term sector wide
development.This PPAR is focused on the first phase of the RSDP, the mainly IDA-
financedRoad Sector Development Program Support Project (Credit 3032-ET). The
PPAR is intended to establish a basis for further evaluation of phases two and three, in
due course. Phase I was finished in 2002. At the time of preparing this PPAR (September
/October 2007) Phase I1had ended and Phase I11had been launched, but the ICR for
Phase I1had not yet been prepared. Obviously some aspects of the further phases are
pertinent to this PPAR, since they enable an assessmentof the risk to the development
outcome in the first phase.

1.5     The donor community in Ethiopia has acknowledged the Bank's leadership role in
the preparation of the RSDP. Experiencewith sector reform in other sub-SaharanAfrican
countrieson a two way basis has been shared through the Road Management Initiative
(RMI) and the Rural Travel and TransportProgram (RTTP) both of the Sub-Saharan
Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP~)managed by the Bank. Of particular interest
in Phases I1and I11is the application of the APLs, providing for greater flexibility in



1Ethiopia Country Brief, World Bank, August 2007.
2Ethiopian Road Authority, Nine Year Assessment Report, 2006.
3The SSATP is a regional knowledge sharing program supported by multiple funding agencies

project design and in financing client needs as new issues arise. The impact on Ethiopia
of the continuity of the RSDP is an additional factor consideredin this evaluation.

2. The project

Project Objectives


2.1      The objectives of the project as indicated in the Project Appraisal Document
         (pAD4)were to contributeto Ethiopia's economic developmentby:

   i.    Improving trunk and regional road access and utilization to meet the agricultural
         and other economic development needs;

  ..
  11.    Building up the institutionalcapacity in both the public and private sectors for
         sustainable road development and maintenance; and

  ...
 111.    Providing economic opportunityfor the rural poor both through increased
         employment in rural road works and development of appropriate and affordable
         means of transport and services.

2.2      The development objectiveswere broad, but sensible as a startingpoint, although
not easily evaluable. It is noticeablethat in later phases of the RSDP these objectives
were tightened up on the basis of experience.For example specific mention is made in
RSDP I11of environmental and social sustainabilityand more focus placed on developing
the capacity and increasing the participation of domestic consultants and contractors,as
well as addressing development issues down to woreda5and community levels.

2.3      The Road Sector Development Program Support Project (RSDPSP Credit 3032-
ET) was the first phase (1997-2003,later extended to 2005) of the road sector investment
program, which supported the Government's RSDP through an integratedpackage of
investments, sector reforms and institutionalre-organization. It was not, however, an
APL (see paragraph 1.4). Subsequent phases of the RSDP, RSDP I1(2003-2007)and the
recently approved RSDP I11(2007-2010) have been supportedthrough the Bank's APL
instruments designed to provide long term support involving ongoing restructuring and
systemicreform, with trigger indicators of achievement that had to be met before
proceedingto the next stage. Additional APLs are planned up to 2014.

2.4      A feature of the Government's RSDP was participation by other development
agencies either in parallel financing with IDA or in co-financing arrangements.In RSDP
I nearly US$15 million was provided through co-financing primarily for institutional
strengthening and capacity building. While this amount may appear to be comparatively
small in comparison to the overallproject cost, the impact of the technical assistancewas



4The wording in the DevelopmentCredit Agreement was similar,but mixed the cbmponent descriptions
with the overall objectives.
5The woreda is a district level of government and provides most social and economic services.

significant.It gave impetus to the whole RSDP initiativeand created a supportive
enablingenvironment, which has led to a coordinated donor approachto the sector and
increased donor fundingin subsequentphases. The main6partners were GTZ, DFID, EU
and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). GTZ funded detailed preparatory work for the
reform agenda, DFID supported capacitybuilding initiativesand contract preparation, the
EU provided for contract administration, some activitiesof the Ethiopian Road Agency's
(ERA'S) Environmental Management Branch, and gave support in respect of transport
planning and economics. The NDF co-financed the capacitybuilding for four Regional
StatesRoads Organizations (RROs) and assisted ERA'Straining centers to develop
curricula for road maintenance, contract and financialmanagement, and small scale
contractortraining. IDA provided technical assistancethrough a Japanese grant (TF-
25158)to cany out village level travel and transport surveys and domestic construction
industry studies.

Project Components and Cost

2.5      The project components as listed in the PAD as well as the appraisal and final
costs are given in Table 2.1 below.

Table 2.1 Components and Costs for the Road SectorDevelopment Program
SupportProject, RSDP Phase I (Credit 3032-ET) in US Dollars millions

ComponentDescription                            *PP        APP       App       Act      Act        Act Co-
                                                Bank       Govt.     Co-fin    Bank     Govt.      fin
Rehabilitating and Upgrading Paved Trunk         108.40     46.40              100.87    28.87
Roads (522 km); 4 contracts
Upgrading TrunkRoads from Gravel to              178.00    131.60              209.74   121.93
Asphalt (855 km); 6 contracts
Construction Supervision                          20.00     12.50               20.36    16.67
Institutional Strengtheningand Capacity            2.80     23.50    14.90       2.40    18.84      14.53
Building technical assistance for ERA,
RROs; Environmental Guidelines and Sector
Environmental Assessment; Technical
Preparation for Rural Roads Improvements
TOTAL: APPRAISAL 538.10                         309.20      214.00   14.90     333.37*   186.31    14.53
              ACTUAL 534.21
*Includes 20.00 from Credit 2438-ET and
the balance from Credit 3438-ET


2.6      An earlier road project, known as the Road RehabilitationProject (Credit 2438-
ET) focused on the Mille-Assab road to Eritrea,but is relevant because it made a
contributionof US$20 million to RSDP I to cover a significant cost overrun. The balance
of funds to cover this overrun was provided fiom the Emergency ReconstructionProgram
(Credit 3438-ET) - a separateproject to improve the condition of roads damaged in the
Ethiopian-Eritrea conflict.The co-financingcontributionsfiom various development


6Other financiers involved in parallel financing included KfW, JICA, AfDB and the Governments of Italy
and the Netherlands.

partners were all in supportof the institutional strengtheningand capacity building
component.

3. Implementation

Quality at Entry (QAE)

3.1     The project QAE was reviewed by the QualityAssurance Group (QAG) and rated
marginally satisfactoryoverall. The rating of marginally satisfactorywas largely due to
concerns about a possible underestimateof resettlementneeds on one road. However,
with the benefit of hindsight it is clear that in the event the anticipated higher amounts for
resettlementdid not materialize due to careful final road location design which
minimized the number of project affectedpersons. All other aspects including risk
assumptionsand social and environmentalassessmentswere satisfactoryor better. QAE
was thus satisfactory.

ImplementationExperience

3.2     Cost Overruns and Price Escalation. There was a quantity underestimation
amounting to 17percent for the Modjo-Awash-Arbaroad contract due to a change in
road design from overlay to reconstruction.This arose fiom rapid deterioration in
sectionsof the road between design review and actual construction.The original
completiontime was extendedby 1,006days contributingto a 45 percent price
adjustment over the original contractprice. Overall, all civil works together cost 8.5
percent more than budgeted with all physical and price contingency allocationsbeing
fully utilized. This was mostly due to the overrun on the Modjo-Awash-Arbaroad. The
additionalamountwas covered by contributions from two other credits (see paragraph
2.6). Delays in mobilization and the unsatisfactoryperformance of a few contractors led
to a credit extension of two years and to unforeseen price escalation because of increases
in world market prices for fuel and bitumen during that period. The mobilization
problems were mainly due to the border conflictbetween Ethiopia and Eritrea leading to
Ethiopia shifting its primary port of trade from Assab to Djibouti.

3.3     Handling of Disputes. The use of Dispute Review Experts in this project produced
significantbenefits, including avoidance of costly arbitration.Amicable solutions were
found by ensuringthe rights and obligationsof eachparty were fully understood and thus
litigation was avoided through facilitateddiscussions.

3.4     HIV/AIDS. At project preparation the HIV/AIDS program for Africa was not yet
operational.Nevertheless, a strategy for the sector was retro-fitted under the project. The
target groups were the staff of ERA, contractors, consultantsand the local communitiesat
the project sites. ERA was one of the first to benefit fiom funding under the Multi-
country HIVIAIDS Program when it became availablein 2002 securing US$ 1.3million
to roll out its initial program.

3.5     Involvement ofprivate contractors in road maintenance and construction. During
implementation of RSDP I, due to a low level of local capacity and experience,

international contractors were the major implementers of federal road rehabilitation,
upgrading and constructionprojects with 70 percent of the total contracts. Local
contractorshad 20 percent of the contracts and the remaining 10percent were undertaken
using force account. The development objective refers to a vaguely worded intention to
"build the capacity of the localprivate sector". Interms of measurable outputs the
number of private local contractorsincreased fiom 2 to a peak of 12during
implementation,while substantiallymore kilometers were constructedby such
contractors in comparison to the length of works completed departmentallyusing forced
account. Training was carried out in assistingthe international contractorswith feasibility
studies, design review, environmentalimpact assessment and supervisionactivities.
While stronger capacity was indeed developed through participation in RSDP I various
constraintswere also identified that were inhibiting rapid progress. These were
weaknesses in the organization of local contractors,the rigidity of the commercial
banking system in meeting the credit needs of contractors, and the slowpace in the
establishment of equipmentrental enterprises. This led to a specific objectiveto address
this issue more substantiallyin the subsequentRSDP 11.

3.6     Environmental and social safeguards. Overall performance of environmental and
social safeguards management progressively improved during implementation.ERA was
proactive in evaluating compensationamountsto be paid as part of a resettlement audit.
By project closure a new compensation law was in place which made subsequent
payments easier. Some 5, 877persons affected by the project were registered and
received compensation to the total value of US$ 6.9 million. IEG found no evidenceof
dissatisfaction with compensationfiom the admittedlyvery small sample of affected
households contacted by the mission.

4. Monitoring and Evaluation


Design

4.1     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of the RSDP is the responsibilityof a specific
branch of the Planning and Programming Division of ERA. With the strong support of
the international development agencies funding the program, it was agreed that a special
effort would be made to measure the progress of the RSDP. Consequentlya local
consultant was recruited to collect selected data annually and prepare reports on the
monitoring indicators (both outcomes and outputs). Sixteen indicatorswere initially
chosen covering a four year period (1997198to 2001102). Fairly standard indicators
related to road density, traffic flow, road roughness,journey time, passenger fares and
fi-eightrates, vehicle operating costs, and accidentswere collected. But other useful
additions related to maintenance cost and expenditure, time for payments to contractors,
time for contract administration,construction costs and incidence of vehicle overloading.
In 2001102 three additional indicatorswere added, namely, employmentopportunitiesfor
local labor, income generation7and improvementsin skill levels. Later, in RSDP 11,a


'ERA  2007. There was found to be a strong correlation between the level of employment created and the
amount of income generated.

basis was established for MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs) focusingon access
and affordabilityand the indicatorbaseline was extended to cover all transport modes.
The baseline designs and follow-up from IEG's viewpoint were highly relevant,
appropriateand, for the first 19indicatorsused in RSDP I methodologicallysound.

4.2     A Roads InspectorateUnit (RIU), which is accountableto the ERA Board,
provides independent inspection and monitoring reports on the performance of road
sector operations.This unit also draws on information fi-omthe Pavement Management
System(PMS) and the Maintenance Management System (MMS) establishedunder the
credit.

Implementation

4.3     The annual data collectionand reportinghas been carried out professionally and
consistently.Results have been reported to ERA'S management8and shared with decision
makers in the GOE. The data have been used as a basis for comparativereporting of the
rate of progress of the RSDP through its various dimensions.The road condition
assessments and maintenancecost and expenditureindicatorshave also informed the
Road Fund of where priorities shouldbe directed. Initial funding from the EU covered
the first four years of M&E data collection and reporting. ERA financed a continuation
for two further years before the GOE Treasury agreed to continuethe work which was
expandedto cover the MDG and broader transport indicators. The IEG mission noted that
the M&E system was "owned" by the beneficiaries in the sense that it was updated and
seen as a useful tool, and that the implementationhad been conducted conscientiously
and rigorously.

Utilization

4.4     The M&E findingshave been shared with various GOE ministries and have been
supportedby the Ethiopian Treasury. ERA and the Road Fund (which fall under the
Ministry of Works and Urban Development) have used the findings for planning
purposes, to respond to enquiriesabout the RSDP, and to measureprogress in the various
dimensions of the program. Areas of concern such as road safety, maintenance and
construction costs, local employment aspects, and freight rates have received special
attention in terms of policy discussions. The fact that the developmentof indicators has
been further expanded under RSDP I1is important. This M&E systemhas become a
flagshipproduct for Ethiopia and the general indicators established for transport in
relation to the MDGs have been adopted by the African Ministers of
TransportlInfkastructureas best practice.

4.5     Overall, the project's M&E is rated high.




8For exampleUpdating of the RSDP Performance and MDG transport Indicators,2004105, Final Report,
WT Consult for ERA, Addis Ababa, 2007

5. Other Issues


5.1      Both safeguard and fiduciarycompliancewere satisfactory,but during the field
trips undertakenby IEG observationswere made concerning aspects of transport
planning, road safety and vehicle overloadingprevention. While it is appreciatedthat the
project being assessed was designedto address large infrastructurebottlenecks in the road
network, it is believed that the comments are relevant in that the project provided the
foundation for the subsequent further implementationof the RSDP and its sustainability.

5.2      With regard to the first topic it is clear in Phase I that a formalized overall
transport master plan is urgently needed in Ethiopia.Although the 1995Bank Transport
Sector Memorandum (which was a major input to the RSDP) covered the expansion of
the internationalairport, the rehabilitationof the Addis-Djibouti railway and the need for
inland containerdepots, the linkagesbetween such initiatives and the implications for the
road systemremain unclear. It is also apparentthat urban transport planning is lagging
behind, especiallyin Addis Ababa, where many of the traffic signals are no longer
functioningand where the traffic becomes gridlocked during peak traffic periods. Traffic
congestionwill likely constrain urban growth if the problem is not addressedurgently.

5.3        These issues, however, have been recognized, and during Phase I1a transport
master plan has been drafted (funded by the EU) although,at the time of preparing this
PPAR it had yet to be tabled and discussed9.The urban problem has also been
acknowledged and through grant funding and an allocation under APL 1,urban transport
needs have at least been assessed.

5.4      The second area which appeared to be underemphasizedis road safety. While
funds for road safety are made available from the Road Fund, the focus is
overwhelminglyon road maintenancewith only 1.14percent allocated to road safetym.
Once a Road Safety Council has been established (resulting fiom a recommendationof
an EU-financed study) it appears likely that this important topic will receive more
attention.

5.5      The last issue concerns the control of overloaded vehicles. Ethiopia has a system
of weighing stations which appears to be quite effectivein deterring overloading
practices and thus protects the roads from undue damage. However, the truckers
association commentedthat the road haulers have to accept the paperwork of
consignmentscollected at the dockside in Djibouti, but this documentation may be
inaccurateand when the trucks cross the border into Ethiopia and are weighed, they
sometimeshave to offload their goods because the weight limits have unwittinglybeen
exceeded. The obvious answer to this would be to have a weighing station at Djibouti
port, but because this is in another country the matter will require bilateral negotiations.


9An Addis Abba Urban Transport Plan was completed in December 2005, but was not implemented in part
because of post-election transitional arrangements in the city government that affected both the mandate to
proceed and the capacity to pursue the plan.
10Despite the fact that the Road Fund allows up to 3 percent of its revenue to be allocated to road safety
activities.

6. Ratings


Outcome

6.1      Overall outcome, taking into account the achievement of the individual
development objectives and the ratings of relevance, efficacy and efficiency,was
satisfactory.

Relevance

6.2      Relevance is high. The development objectives were derived from the stated
overarching goal of the GOE's RSDP, and alignedwith the Bank's country assistance
strategy (CAS) at that time through enhancing pro-poor growth, institutionalcapacity
building and human development.A more recent interim CAS put more emphasis on
good governance,but still stronglysupported the pro-poor growth strategy, while the
Poverty Reduction Strategypaper1', containingthe Plan for Accelerated and Sustained
Development to End Poverty (2005-2010), included as a main pillar "Strengthening the
infrastructurebackbone of the country." The importance of a sound basic road network to
assist with the transportation of food aid in drought situations is also crucial.The further
relevance of this project is derived from the comprehensivemulti-phase nature of the
program and the great interest shown in the outcome by international financial
institutions.

Efficacy

6.3      Objective 1: Improvingtrunk and regional rural road access and utilization
to meet the agricultural and other economic development needs. Achievement is rated
satisfactory. The weighted averagepercentage of works completed (in financialterms)
under the 10works contracts was 94.3 percent. The PAD anticipated that 1,300krn of
roads would be completed out of which 1,264km were actually finished;the remaining
36 krn were eventually completed under Credit 3438. The financing shortfallwas the
result of a cost overrun and higher than expected price escalation, especiallythe high cost
of petroleum fuel.

6.4     Vehicle operating costs on the improved roads decreasedby about 16percent and
journey time by between 25 and 30 percent. This contributed to the loweringof truck
freightrates by 25 percent per tonlkm in 1999/00on the importlexport corridorand 47
percent on the other trunk routes. The lower costs would have stimulatedthe domestic
markets including agriculture and other commodities, and contributed to a positive export
growth and competitiveness (as reflected in International Monetary Fund statistics"), but
it is not possible to sayhow much of this growth was due to the road improvements and
how much was as a result of other factors.




"Ethiopia:PovertyReductionStrategyPaper,Report40406-ET,WorldBank,August,2007
12Average annual export growth between 1999and 2005 was 15percent.

6.5     Objective 2: Building up institutionalcapacity in both the public and private
sectors for sustainableroad developmentand maintenance.Achievement is rated
highly satisfactory. From an institutional capacity building perspective this project
provided a solid foundationfor the RSDP. ERA showed effective leadership and
commitment; detailed preparatorywork for a reform agendahad been carried out over a
two year period, supportedby GTZ; substantialresources (US$35.77million) were
utilized for the various activitiesand both technical and strategic assistancewere
provided by many developmentpartners,working well together on a coordinatedbasis.

6.6     ERA was strengthened by the implementationof an upward revision of salaries
(up to 66 percent) and other benefits, thus enablingthe organizationto recruit and retain
core staff - a major problem in the past. This factor, coupled with technical assistance
activities, improved ERA'S capacity in managing procurement,contract administration,
planning and financial management. In 2002 a new procurement code was enacted and an
independent Public ProcurementAgency with monitoring functionswas established at
federal level. Pavement and maintenance management systemswere introduced and
ERA's financialmanagement system was updated, while a new accountingpackage and a
computerized store system were developed in-house. The RROs were strengthened in
accordancewith advice given by the NDF and training manuals were successfully
introduced in the training centers. In addition, ERA's 10District Maintenance
Organizations(DMOs)benefited from a comprehensive five year capacitybuilding
program to enablethem to carry out cost effectivemaintenance on a decentralized basis.
The establishment of the RIU also improved the overall technical and financial auditing
of maintenance and constructionactivities.

6.7     IEG's assessmentof the outcome of institutionalprogress in the public sector was
based on the fact that all the outputs were achieved, and that interviewswith the
beneficiaries, consultants,contractors and international development agencies were
positive concerningthe soundnessof the program. ERA in particular was seen as a
competent and progressive organization. In addition greater stabilityin funding for road
maintenance was establishedthrough the setting up of a dedicatedRoad ~ u n d ' ~ ,
including a Road Fund Administrationand a Board that comprised of representatives of
the federal government,regional states and the private sector.

6.8     While the level of achievementin the public sector was high, less progress was
made in the private sector. Because of limited prior experience only 20 percent of
contracts were awarded locally.Most internationally appointed contractorsdid link with
local contractors and contributedto their development and some consultancy services
provided opportunitiesfor on-the-job training for ERA counterpart staff. The project also
helped to identifythe main constraintsinhibiting greaterparticipation by the local private
sector, but perhaps could have done more (see paragraph 3.5). Given that the objective of
building capacity was vague, and that there were no indicatorsto measure progress to
such a goal, and taking into account that this was a first initiative in this area, IEG rates
progress with private sector capacitybuilding as satisfactoryand the overall rating for
building institutional capacity (public and private) as highly satisfactory.



13Proclamation No. 6611997,

 6.9      Objective 3: Providing economic opportunity for the rural poor both through
 increased employment in rural road works and affordable means of transport
 (AMT) and services.Achievement is rated satisfactory. Employmentopportunities for
 local labor were tracked, and the additionalnumber of persons employedwas about 7,400
 for an averageperiod of 40 months spread over ten contracts.Of these persons
 approximately40 percent were skilled.The number of women employed,however, was
relatively low14.There would have been some multiplier effects on the local economy,
but no attemptwas made to measure secondarybenefits resulting from greater income
and improved access.

6.10      For the majority of the rural population in the remotest areas the main means of
transport is walking with head and back loading, supported by animal transport. This
project was seen as a limited first step towards includingthe concept of how to improve
the level of affordablemeans of transport in the country's transport framework. It
comprised the establishmentof an EthiopianRural Travel and Transport sub-programto
look at what measures could be taken to improvethe options for remote communities and
the conductingof pilot studies in selectedworedas. The pilot studies were completed and
focused on constructinglow cost roads, footpathsand trails, and projects to reduce the
burden of travel and transport by providing access to water wells, grinding mills and
schools.An access strategy was developed specificallyby each community and was thus
locally-owned. Although the impact on land tenure system on the location and
distributionof the rural population was not addressed, several improved access schemes
for individualvillages were successfullyimplemented.The IEG mission noted that the
subsequentintroduction of low cost hanging bridges has alsobeen successful. Prog-ess
overall was rated satisfactory.

Efficiency

6.11      Economic rates of retum (ERR) and net present values (NPV) were calculated in
the ICR for all the rehabilitated and upgraded roads at appraisal and completion using the
same HDM-111'~model for consistency.The results given in Table 6.1 below show in all
cases that the returns have improved since appraisalin a range of 26-35 percent and that
the value of the project is very strong, far higher than the assumed opportunity cost of
capital of 12percent16.IEG deemed the methodologicalassumptions to be appropriate.




14Between 4 and 7.2 percent based on a sample of three contracts.
15 Highway Development and Management System, version 111.
l6The opportunitycost of capital was taken as 12percent to be consistent with the original feasibility study
conducted in July 1997,although the rate currently is 10percent. This made no significant difference to the
rates of retum calculated.

                                                     11


Table 6.1 EIRR and NPV of Rehabilitated and Upgraded Roads

Road Link                Length ERR                       ERR         NPV Appraisal    NPV ICR
                                      Appraisal           ICR
Description              km           %                   %           @12%million      012% million
                                                                      ETB              ETB
Modjo-Awash-Mille 442                20.3                 34.5        919.4            4,476.4
Woldiya-Alamata-         196          16.3                26.0        205.4            1,269.6
wulu-0
Debre-Markos-            428          14.3                29.3        162.5            2,439.2
Gondar
Awash-Harar              311          25.2                30.7        947.2            2,552.9


6.12    The higher values at completion are attributable to higher traffic growth and lower
vehicle operating costs than anticipated at appraisal, even taking into account both the
higher construction and fuel costs that pertained during implementation. The IEG mission
studied the traffic counts and traffic composition for the years 1992-200517and found
that the expected traffic volumes have continued to rise after completion on average
slightly faster than anticipated and that trucks continue to predominate in the traffic mix.
The traffic growth is more due to expansion of the industrial and service sectors rather
than the agricultural sector, while the incidence of truck traffic emphasizes the
importance of the weighing stationsprogram to discourage vehicle overloading. Road
condition was generally satisfactory, as observedby IEG, with only one road section
needing attention to drainage iss~es'~.Overall, the efficiency of the project was high.

Risk to Development Outcome

6.13    The ICR, using the old rating system, considered the sustainability of the project
to be highly likely based on the contributionscommitted to the Road Fund for
maintenance, the improved capacity of the agencies concerned, the involvement of
beneficiaries and stakeholders in the ongoing sector reform process and the continued
support from the international and bilateral funding agencies. IEG had the opportunityto
make a further assessment based on progress with the Phase I1project (ALP 1) and was
fortunate to have been present for the launch of Phase 111.This involved a review
conference19held to assess the implementationof the first two phases, and provided IEG
with an opportunity to interview key stakeholders.

6.14    With regard to the Road Fund, the total revenue collected over the last ten years
has been ETB 4,117.7 millions (US$468 million). This amount has been sufficient to
cover the routine maintenance of the federal road system and make a contribution to the
needs of the regional and urban roads and to periodic maintenance. Currently 65 percent
is allocated to federal roads, 25 percent to regional roads and the remaining 10percent to




17 ERA Report on the analysis of traffic flow patterns in Ethiopia (1992-2005).
I sERA Annual condition and axle load enforcement report, 2005.
l 9Implementationassessment of the ten year accomplishment in the road sector and launch of RSDP 111,
September24-25,2007, SheratonHotel,Addis Ababa.

urban roadsz0.Clearlythe fund will need to be expanded as the system grows and the
capacity to handle more maintenance activities improves. Recently,the GOE agreed that
municipal and sales taxes levied on fuel sales could be added to the fund. In comparison
to road finds in other African countriesthe Ethiopian fund does well, since only one third
of such funds cover routine maintenance costs2'. Administrationcosts are also low at
about two percent of funds collected. The GOE continues to show strong commitment to
the RSDP as exemplifiednot only in its financial support,but also as embodied in its
latest Letter of Road Sector~ o l iJ2.  c

6.15    There is also a strong sense of commitment to the RSDP from the international
donor and finance communitywhereby 12 organizationshave pledged their continued
support for RSDP Phase 111,with IDA, AfDB, EU and Japan covering one third of the
expected costs. This will ensurethat the program continues at least until 2010, but the
likelihood of continuanceuntil 2015 (to meet the Millennium Development Goals, in
which improved accessibilityis an important aspect) is extremelyhigh. Perhaps the only
scenario that could derail this support would be another outbreak of hostilitieswith
neighboring Eritrea.

6.16    The reason for this level of support is to be found in Table 6.2 which shows that
there is a steady improvementin the results of the program. Road condition and road
density improved during Phase I (this project) and have continued and accelerated in
Phase 11.Average distance to an all-weatherroad has reduced from 21.4 to 13.0km,
while the proportion of asphalt roads in good condition has improved from 17percent in
1997,to 33 percent at the end of Phase I, to 64 percent in 2007. This is clearlya success
story.

6.17    The remaining critical factors required for sustainabilityof the program and
project benefits are strengtheningfurther the institutional and organizationalcapacity of
the road agencies to ensure capacity is adequate for successful implementationand
fostering the local contracting industry capacity to carry out the work. As both of these
factors have been addressed in the development objectives of Phase I11and as the
international financiersare set to give additional technical assistance,the achievement of
these objectives looks highly likely. IEG therefore concludes that the risk to development
outcome is negligible to low.




20Half of thls amount is for Addis Ababa.
21Benmaannar M 2006 Financing of Road Maintenance in Sub-Saharan Africa SSATP discussionpaper 6.
22Updated letter of road sector policy, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, April 17, 2007.

Table 6.2 Change in Selected RSDP Indicators between 1997 and 2007

Ethiopia Country Indicators                        1997(RSDP        2002           2007 (End of
                                                   begins)          (End of Ph. I) Ph. IT)
Proportionof asphalt roads in good condition (%)   17               35             64
Proportionof gravel roads in good condition (%)    25               30             49
Proportionof rural roads in good condition (%)     21               28             46
Proportionof total network in good condition (%)   22               30             49
Road densityl1,OOOsq. lan (h)                      24.1             30.3           38.6
Road densityl1,OOOpopulation (km)                  0.46             0.49           0.55
Proportionof area more than 5 km from all-weather  79               75             68
road (%)
Average distance to all-weatherroad (km)           21.4              17.0          13.0


Bank Performance

6.18    Bank performance overall was satisfactory.Several studies and investigations
preceded finalizationof the appraisalincluding a seminar on the management and
financingof roads, sponsoredjointly by the EU and ERA, which identified key issues and
made recommendationson how to handle them. The Bank produced a Transport Sector
Memorandumin 1996that provided a comprehensive framework for reform, building on
GTZ-financedtechnical assistancepreparatory work on the reform agenda. Through
these interactionsthere developed a good cooperative spirit among the development
partners which has continued throughout the decade. Criticalrisks were appropriately
assessed and adviceby the Bank to the borrower contributedto the good compliance and
efficiency in applyingthe Bank's procurement guidelinesand standard documents. More
attentionperhaps could have been given to strengtheningthe role of the local private
sector in the project. Performance during preparation was, on the whole however,
satisfactory.

6.19    Bank supervisionwas also satisfactory.The project was large in scope and the
team had to resolve many technical issues involvingproblems of design and contract
administration.This included a timely extension followingan unexpected cost overrun.
While it is arguablethat the supervisionteam could have anticipatedthis overrun earlier
it is doubtful, given the level of capacity in the constructionindustry and ERA at that
time that this delay could have been avoided. The team gave proactive support to ERA in
meeting the requirements for key environmentaland social safeguards, in the design of an
HIVIAIDS prevention strategy, as well as in policy and institutionalreform matters and
capacitybuilding initiatives. It drew on the resources of the SSATP in respect of advice
on the Rural Travel and Transport Program and helped ERA to establish an effective
review panel of dispute resolution experts. In IEG's view, this satisfactory performance
was due to the combined experience of the team, the assignment of Bank headquarters
staff to Addis Ababa, and the continuity of the same team throughout the project.

Borrower Performance

6.20    Borrower performance overall is alsorated as satisfactory. On the GOE side the
commitmentto achievingthe development objectiveswas very strong and highly
satisfactory.Although there may have been other strategic reasons for supportinga good
core road system associatedwith a sound Road Fund, there is no doubt that the important
role of this infrastructurebackbone to poverty alleviationwas fully recognized. Decisions
were timely including the proclamationsestablishingERA, and the fund, as well as a new
compensationlaw.

6.21    ERA was effective in program monitoring and organizing and leading
coordinationmeetings with donors. It was also effective in establishingbaseline indicator
data and in the overall handling of safeguard issues. Moreover, it was responsiveto
suggestionsto improvehigher amounts for resettlement compensationin line with Bank's
policies. Initial organizational deficienciesin ERA identified in appraisal in areas such as
planning, contract and financial administration were progressively improved through the
institutional strengtheningcomponent and by the end of the project the improvement was
considered by the stakeholdersinterviewed by IEG to be significant.The results of the
establishment of ERA'S RIU were more modest than expected in that there was a lag
between creating the capacity and its impact on improving the management of the
system. However, by project closurethe RrCT was working effectively and it reallybegan
to produce good results in Phase 11. Some early contracts were also delayed due to weak
contractorperfonnance. The effects of this could have been minimized had ERA been
more proactive at the time. Taking all these factors into account the performance was
satisfactoryalbeit in some aspects marginally so. Overall, given the scale of the
operation,borrower performance (government and implementing agency) was
satisfactory.

7. Lessons

7.1     This project was the first in a series of follow-onprojects planned on a
programmaticbasis with multi-donor support. It is recommended that a further evaluation
be conducted after Phases I1and I11of the RSDP using APLs have been concluded and
ICRs prepared. The main lessons from Phase I are as follows:

   i.   Even in a very low income country, a successful infrastructure program can be
        established with strong government commitment, sound preparation, continuityof
        management and funding flow, and a coordinated multi-donor approach. The
        RSDP support project showed that the up-front focus on policy issues can
        contribute substantiallyto a successful outcome;

  ii.  A successful roads program needs to be monitored by means of establishing
        appropriate and practical indicatorswith a dedicated unit to measureprogress and
       report regularly to the decision-makers. The indicators need to be able to establish
       progress with the softer issues such as income generation, improvementsin skills
        levels, and creation of employment opportunities;

...
111. In a large road program, specificattention needs to be given to effectivecontract
     administration.The appointment of Dispute ResolutionExperts can yield
     significantbenefits including avoidance of costly arbitration.


                                17                                   Annex A


AnnexA. Basic Data Sheet


ROADSECTORDEVELOPMENTPROGRAMSUPPORT               PROJECT(CREDIT
3032-ET)



                              Appraisal      Actual or        Actual as % of
                              estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate

Total projectcosts

Loan amount

Government of Ethiopia




                                   Original                    Actual

Appraisal

Board approval

Signing

Effectiveness

Closing date




                                          Actual/Latest Estimate

                                No. Staff Weeks               US$('OOO)

IdentificationlPreparation          80.00                    207,544.05

AppraisaIlNegotiation               97.00                    256,377.95

Supervision                         240.00                   832,300.09

Total                               417.00                  1,296,222.09

                                      18                                     Annex A


Mission Data
                  Date         No. of No. of Persons and              Performance Rating
                  (month/year) persons Specialty (e.g. 2              Implement.  Development
                                      Economists, 1 FMS, etc)         P,,~,,       Objective

Identification1   06/01/1996   8      Team Leader (1); Sr.            S
Preparation                           Transport Economist (1);
                                       RMI Task Manager (1);
                                       Regional Procurement
                                       Adviser (1); Consultant (1);
                                       EnvironmentalSpecialist (I);
                                       lnfrastructureSpecialist (1)


                                       Team Leader (1); Transport      S
                                       Economist (1); Sr.
                                       Accountant (1); Highway
                                       Engineer (1); lnfrastructure
                                       Spec. (1); Environmental
                                       Specialist ( I); Divisional
                                       Engineer (1); Operations
                                       Analyst (1)

                                       Team Leader (1); Pr.            S
                                       Transport EGO.(1); Financial
                                       Mgt. Spec. (1); Highway
                                       Eng. (1); Transport Planner
                                       (1); lnfrastructureSpec. (1);
                                       Sr. Counsel (1);
                                       Environmental Spec. (1);
                                       RuralTransport Eco. (1);
                                       OperationsAnalyst (1)

Negotiation                            Team Leader (1); Pr.
                                       Transport Eco. (1); Sr.
                                       FinancialMgt. Spec. (1);
                                       Highway Eng. (1); Transport
                                       Planner (1); Operation
                                       Officer.(1); Sr. Counsel (I);
                                       EnvironmentalSpec. (1);
                                       RuralTransport Eco. (1);
                                       Operations Analyst (1)
                                       Disbursement Officer (I)

Supervision                            Team Leader (1); Roads          S
                                       Engineer (1); RTTP (2)

                                       Task Team Leader (I); Highway
                                       Engineer (1); lnfrastructure
                                       Spec. (I); Sr. Accountant (1);
                                       Social Scientist (I);Operations
                                       Analyst (1)

                                       Sr. Highway Engineer(1);        S
                                       Highway Engineer (1);
                                       lnfrastructureSpec. (I); Social
                                       Scientist (1); Sr. Accountant
                                       (11

Date         No. of No. of Persons and             Performance Rating
(month/year) persons Specialty (e.g. 2            Implement.   Development
                    Economists, 1 FMS, etc)       Progress      Objective

0611912000   5      Sr. Highway Engineer(1);       S
                     Highway Engineer (1); Social
                    Scientist (1); Prog.
                    AsstlSociologist (1); Sr.
                    Accountant (1)

                    Sr. Hwy.Engr.(TL)(I);          S
                    Operations Officers (1);
                     FinancialSpecialist (1)

                    Task Team Leader (1);          S
                     EnvironmentalSpec. (Spec
                    (1); Sr. Operations Officer
                    (1); Fin. Mgmt. Specialist(1)

                    Sr. Hwy Engr.(TTL)(l);         S
                    Social Scientist (1);
                     Economist(1); Sr.
                    Operations Officer (1);
                     Fin.Mgmt. Specialist (1);
                    Lead Proc. Specialist (1);
                    Sector Manager (I); Private
                    Sector Dev. (1)

                    Sr. Hwy.Engr.(TTL) (1);        S
                     Economist (1); Intern (1);
                    Social Scientist (1); Highway
                     Engineer (1); Sr. Operations
                    Officer (1); Fin. Management
                    Spec. (1); Sector Manager
                    AFTTR(1); Highways Adviser
                    (1)

                    Sr. Hwy.Engineer (TTL) (1);    S
                    Sr. Highway Engineer (I);
                    Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                    Soc. Scientist/Envn.Sp. (1);
                    OperationsAnalyst (I)

                    Task Team Leader(1);
                    Highway Engineer (1); Soc.
                    Scientist- Reset (1); Rural
                    Transport (1); TR.
                    EconIUrbanTran Sp (1);
                    Finan. Mgt. Specialist (1);
                    Prog. Assistant (1)

                    Team Leader (I    ); Sr.       S
                    Transport Spec. (2); Social
                    Scientist (1); Financial Spec.
                    (1); Sr. Transport Eco.(l);
                    ProgramAssistant(1)

1011812002- 7       The project was supervised

Date         No. of No. of Persons and            Performance Rating
(month/year) persons Specialty(e.g.2              Implement.  Development
                    Economists, I FMS, etc)       P,,greSS     Objective

to project          from the field with the
closing and         assignmentof the TTL, and
ICR                 a Sr. Transport Specialist in
preparation         the Country Office together
                    with a Financial
                    ManagementSpecialist, and
                    with periodicvisits by a
                    Social scientist,
                    EnvironmentalSpecialist,
                    Transport Economist, and
                    RuralTransport Specialist.

