CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 363 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Phase II Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 363 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Phase II Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 28, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        March   28,   1973,   between REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ADMARC" means the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation of the Borrower, a statutory body established under the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation Act (Cap. 67:03 of the Laws of Malawi),
or any successor thereto.
(b)   "Project Area" means the area as defined in General Notice No. 198
of the Malawi Government Gazette of March 2, 1973.
(c)   "Project Manager" means the person to be employed by the Borrower
as project manager pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement.
(d)   "ADS" means the Agricultural Development Services Unit established
by the World Bank and the headquarters of which are located in Nairobi (Kenya).


﻿4
(e)   "Land registration" means the acquisition of title to land by farmers
and livestock owners pursuant to procedures set forth in Cap. 59:01 of the Laws
of Malawi, which came into operation on May 9, 1967, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(f)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADMARC pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
(g)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in April 1971,
as revised in October 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand dollars ($10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under this Agreement; provided, however, that,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
late as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1983, and ending December 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial,
administrative, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   (i)         establish and maintain, until completion of the Project,
a liaison committee to coordinate the activities of the
ministries, agencies and instrumentalities of the Borrower
concerned with implementation of the Project, and
(ii)        appoint as members of said committee the Permanent
Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources, or his designated representative, who
shall act as chairman thereof; the Project Manager, who
shall act as secretary thereof; and one designated senior
official from each of the ministries, agencies and
instrumentalities  of  the  Borrower   referred  to  in
sub-paragraph (a)(i) of this Section;


﻿6
(b)   employ a qualified and experienced person, acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, to serve as project manager (who shall be directly responsible
to the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources); and
(c)   cause the Project Manager to be provided with such adequate and
competent staff as may be necessary to carry out the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A(iv)
of the Project and to carry out Part D(ii) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to employ a qualified and
experienced research officer who shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part
G(iv), (v) and (vi) of the Project.
Section 3.05. In carrying out construction works for the Project, other than
those specified in sub-paragraphs B(b) and B(c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, in providing credit as required under Part A(ii) of the
Project, follow, or cause to be followed, the operating policies and procedures
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause ADMARC or any successor thereto
to provide such resources as may be required to carry out Part A(ii) and (vi) of
the Project in accordance with a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and
ADMARC, the terms and conditions of which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the ministry responsible for health
to provide such staff, equipment and drugs as shall be necessary for carrying out
Part E of the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance


﻿*                                     7
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction, work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
rervices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments, agencies or instrumentalities of the Borrower reponsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limiting or restricting paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall: (i) cause the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) in respect of the Project
for each fiscal year of the Borrower to be audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of


﻿8
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the buildings, roads and equipment
included in the Project to be adequately maintained and repaired, and to that
end, shall make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all
funds and other resources as shall be required for that purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration
and operations, in respect of the Project, of the departments, agencies or
instrumentalities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration and operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments, agencies or instrumentalities of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿9
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower oi.             in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declale
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ADMARC or for the suspension of its operations in such manner
as would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿10
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.0 1(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the execution and delivery
of the Subsidiary Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ADMARC, respectively,
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ADMARC respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of each of the parties thereto.
Section 8.03. The date April 27, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 53
Zomba, Malawi


﻿*                                 11
Cable address:
FINANCE
Zomba
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
iepresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ C.M. Mkona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                  % of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.   Seasonal credit                  300,000               33% of total
(including fertilizers,                                expenditures
insecticides and
seeds)
1I.  Medium term credit (in-          600,000          )    100% of foreign
cluding sprayers, carts,                         )     expenditures or
fishing boats, fishing                           )     85% of total
nets and ox drawn equip-                         )     expenditures
ment)                                            )     (representing
)    the estimated
III.  Vehicles, machinery             900,000          )    foreign ex-
and equipment                                    )     penditure
)    component)
IV.  Construction of:
(a)  Housing, buildings        2,100,000               85% of total
and water supplies                               expenditures
(b)  Roads (including          1,200,000               100% of foreign
road construction                                expenditures or
equipment)                                       85% of total
expenditures
(representing the
estimated foreign
expenditure
component)
V.   Consultants' Services            500,000               100% of foreign
expenditures
VI.  Project Personnel
(a)  ADS personnel              100,000                100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                 % of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
(b)  Other personnel          2,000,000               85% of total
expenditures
VII. *Administration                1,300,000               85% of total
maintenance                                           expenditures
VIII. Unallocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL              10,500,000
*    Such category includes cost of administration and maintenance required, inter
alia, for crop and livestock development, research, fisheries, roads, buildings, rural
water supply and health services.
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and of
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph


﻿14
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
anfount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories IV(a),
VI(b) and VII shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase of a program directed at increasing
agricultural, livestock and fish production in the Project Area over a five-year period,
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:      A program   involving about 16,000 farmers designed to increase the
production of about 49,000 acres of cotton, about 52,000 acres of
maize, about 19,000 acres of sorghum, about 7,000 acres of rice,
about 4,000 acres of groundnuts and about 200 acres of cocoa by:
(i)         providing extension    services, including the construction of
offices, stores and training facilities at six extension area
headquarters, the expansion of existing extension offices,
training facilities, workshops, stores and staff housing and the
supply of vehicles and training equipment;
(ii)         extending seasonal and medium-term     credit to farmers;
(iii)        drilling and equipping 140 boreholes;
(iv)        improving about 80 miles of main and secondary roads, and
adapting the railway bridge at Bangula to carry road vehicles;
(v)          constructing about 100 miles of feeder roads; and
(vi)         constructing 17 new    markets and renovating three existing
markets.
Part B:      The operation of two grazing schemes in selected areas on available
grazing land and the construction of fire lines, tracks, dipping tanks,
weirs and aams, and the establishment of three ox training centers.
Part C:      A  program   designed to increase the productivity of about 1,000
fishermen by:
(i)         providing extension services and facilities;
(ii)         constructing smoke-drying kilns;


﻿16
(iii)       constructing about 20 miles of all-weather roads; and
(iv)        training of boat builders.
Part D:     Carrying out of:
(i)         engineering studies in the Elephant and Ndinde Marshes to
determine the feasibility of intensive low-cost fish farming; and
(ii)        final engineering for the improvement of the Chikwawa-Bangula
Road.
Part E:     A program   to improve health services in the Project Area by:
(i)         construction of new   or conversion of existing buildings to
provide four Primary Health Centers, 11 Sub-Centers and 16
Health Posts and medical service departments at Chikwawa
District Hospital; and
(ii)        provision of personnel, drugs and equipment for the operation
of the basic health services included in the Project.
Part F:     Maintenance and control of Game Parks for wildlife preservation, in
particular at Lengwe by:
(i)         provision of staff houses and vehicles; and
(ii)        construction of access roads.
Part G:     A program   to improve agricultural research at Makanga, Kasinthula
and Ngabu and fisheries research at Chiromo by:
(i)         the appointment of a qualified and experienced senior research
officer to coordinate local research programs;
(ii)        construction of staff housing and offices;
(iii)       construction and equipping of two laboratories;
(iv)        rainfed crop trials at Ngabu;
(v)         irrigation trials at Kasinthula; and
(vi)        the carrying out of a seed bulking program   at Makanga.


﻿17
Part H:      Services of consultants for Parts A(iv) and D(ii) of the Project.
Part I:      A program   designed to assist in preparation of land registration for
farmers and livestock owners under Parts A and B of the Project,
respectively.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for road construction works, machinery,
equipment, vehicles and fertilizers estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The items
to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it has any objection
to the intended award on the ground that the award would be inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, and
shall state the reasons for any objections which it may have.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿19
(e)   If any contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for road construction works, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure for such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
B.    Contracts or Works not Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
Notwithstanding the provisions included in the paragraphs of this Schedule
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement the following contracts or works
will be awarded or carried out as follows:
(a)   Any contract to supply machinery, equipment, vehicles or fertilizers
which is, on an annual basis, less than $25,000 equivalent, will be awarded under
the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
(b)   Boreholes will be drilled and equipped by the Borrower under force
account.
(c)   Staff housing, workshops, offices and other building construction
works will be awarded on the basis of competitive bids from local firms.
(d)   The earth works and the gravelling required for the road construction
works included in Part A(iv) and (v) of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower under force account.


﻿20
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison for goods included
in Category III of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Preferred Domestic Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
in Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Malawi of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   "Non-preferred Domestic Bid" means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Malawi.
(c)   "Foreign Bid" means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    A margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred
Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid,
for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿21
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred          None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign          Preference
Bids;                                             Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage 11 is not          None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids. only.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
*        eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures for the Provision
of Credits unde; Part A(ii) of the Project
Two revolving funds for credit will be established under control of the Project
Manager, one for seasonal credit and the other for medium-term credit.
1.    Seasonal Credits
Seasonal credit will be provided in kind for farmers' seasonal inputs such as
fertilizers, insecticides and seed at a price equal to their cost (including all handling,
transportation and other direct charges) plus a 10% service charge.
Seasonal credits will be secured by the beneficiary farmer's crop. If a seasonal
credit is not fully repaid on time, a further 10% charge on the amount outstanding
will be levied and the over-all total will be secured by the following crop. All
repayments will be allocated to the revolving seasonal credit fund.
2.    Medium-term   Credits
Medium-term credit will be provided to farmers and fishermen for such items
as work oxen, ploughs and accessories, cotton sprayers, and fishing boats and fishing
nets at a price equal to their cost (including all handling, transportation and other
direct charges). Such credit will carry interest at the rate of 10% per annum.
Repayments will be in annual installments over a period of up to 3 years,
depending upon the items financed by the credit.
Medium-term credits will be secured by the items financed with the proceeds
thereof and the beneficiary's crop or catch. All repayments will be allocated to
the revolving medium-term credit fund.
3.    Repayment Procedure
All beneficiaries under the above credits will register at the closest ADMARC
market or beach credit office, to which they will obligate themselves to sell their
produce or catch in order to repay their respective credits. Credit repayments will
be collected at the appropriate ADMARC market or beach credit office by the
Project credit staff. Beneficiaries will repay 50% of their receipts or 100% of their
remaining debt, whichever is less, after delivery of their crops or catch to the
stipulated market or beach credit office. Records of each individual account will
be maintained at each ADMARC market or beach credit office.


﻿23
4.    Administration of the Credits Funds
The revolving seasonal credit fund and the revolving medium-term credit fund
will be established and administered by the Project Manager, who will maintain
credit records, authorize credit sales and supervise debt collections. The Project
Manager's extension staff will provide technical supervision.
Adequate records of all agricultural credit transactions will be maintained.


