Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7570
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILLIPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1855-PH)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
Tb"is doemenet has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OUIItAL USB ONdLY
TM WORLD BANK
WashmNgton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Okce  Of.cswaI
0atw Ivakt
December 30, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines Third Ports
ProJect (Loan 1855-PH)
Attached, for information is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Philippines Third Ports Project (Loan
1855-PH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This docum  hkm  a rsticeddiibuton and may be used by nrpiena ony  th wporusmae
of thdir offc dutieas.It conants may nsot oterwie be diclosed without Wold Bank autoitndm.



FOR OFFICILU USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA 3E ............,i
BAIC DAT  IET8............................................................. iii
r. *  NTRODUCTION .................................................     I.
Ir.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.......... oo.     2
A*      Background   e o o o * o o o o o o s o * e e ........oeo........................ee....  2
B.  Project Description.........o..o .ooe....o.....e.eo..o.o        3
III   IMPLEMENTATION   oe................... eee..............  S*eooee   5
A* Effectiveness .............................. .............       5
B. Revisions to the Project ...c...... ...................c..       5
C.  Physical 6...............................................       6
D.  Reporting and Procuremente.o.e....co..e............ce...        9
F. Disbursements                  ...... ..                        10
C. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers...        10
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE............ ....................             10
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEze....e.c..eeeeeeee..........eeeccc. c        12
A.  Operating Results ....................................         12
B. Effects of Inflation ...................................        13
vr.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AUD DEVELOPMENT ......e     .cceece      13
A.  Organizational Autonomy.;...............................       13
B. Management..e...........           ..........*. ...... 14
VII.  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ......... eec......  c....... eccc ee  e.   14
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE ........e.. ....                                   16........ c6
IX.  CONCLUSIONS ..........................       ...... eec......      17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



TABLES
1.   Actual and Expected Project Implementation
2.   Percentage of Work Completed
3.   Status of Major Loan Covenants
4.   Summary of Actual and Original Estimates of Project Costs
5.   Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Disbursements by Category
7.   Actual and Original Expectation of Project Financing
8.   Comparison of Traffic Crowth
9.   Traffic at Government and Private Ports
10.  Port Traffic in the Philippines
11.  Actual and Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for PPA, 1980-1986
Ila. Actual and Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for Cebu, 1980-1986
llb. Actual and Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for rloilo, 1980-
1986
llc. Actual and Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for Cagayan de Oro,
1BO-1986
lld. Actual and Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for Zamboanga, 1980-
1986
12.  Actual and Projected Balance Sheet of PPA, 1980-1986
13.  Economic Reevaluations  Project Costs and Benefits
MAPS
1. Port of Cebu
2. Port of Cagayan de Oro
3. Port of Iloilo
4. Port of Zamboanga



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a Proje;.t Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Ports
Project for which Loan 1855-PH was approved on May 27, 1980 in the amount of
US$67.0 million. The entire amount was passed on to the Philippine Ports
Authority (PPA) as a loan on the same terms as the Bank loan. The original
closing date of the loan was extended by twelve months to June 30, 1986, and
the final disbursements were made in December 1986. The unused balance of the
loan, totaling US$134,000, was cancelled at loan closing.
The PCR was prepared by the Asia Country Department II Infrastruc-
ture Division and was based on a PCR prepared by PPA and other documents
contained in the project file. The PCi was discussed with PPA and the govern-
ment staff involved during a visit in February 1988 and their comments have
been incorporated in the report. The valuable assistane: provided by the
project staff during preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
Tn accordance with the revised procedures for projact performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Deparoment (ORD)
but the projact ws. not audited by ORD staff. The draft PCR was sent
to the Borrower on September 13, 1988. No coments were received.



- ii -
PROJECT C !P"ttOM REPORT 9ASIC DATA SHEET
PHtLtPP:NES:  THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN t855-PH)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal              Accual Yr
Item                                                             expeccation         current esttsace
Total Project Cost (USS million)                                             ts5.o           _____'
Inderrun (:)                                                                                        3 31*
Loan/Credit Amount (USS million)                                              67  0_S6 _47
Disbuiesd      )                                                             -     -_              _.d_7
Cancelled      )                                                               -            ______
Repaid to      )                                                               -                      -
Outstanding to )
DaSo Physical Cooponents Completed                                           06/84                  11/86
Proportion Completed by Above Dace (2)                                    ____               _        oe
Proportion of rtne Overrun (2)
Economic Rate of Return (t)                                                    lot                    'l'
financial Performance                                                         Good                   Good
tnatitutional PerfoCIneo                                                      Good                   Good
OTHE0 PROJECT DATA
OrigInL                                       Actual or
ttem                                                Pltn               Revisions              Est. Actual
Firsc Mention tn Ftles or Timetable                          !  /                  /  /                  06/06/73
Governments Applicatlon                                        i7                    / I                    t  1-_
Negotiations                                                                          -7 I  1            04/t 870
Board Approval                                               I/07  80
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                   I                                            6I  /   06/1380
Effectiveness Date                                           I  I                  I9/
CloSing Otte                                                 178S                07/01/8S                06/30/96
sorrowur                                                  RePubic of the Phillptneo
Executing  goncy                                          Philiopine Potrs Authortty
Fiscal Yost of Uorrowr                                    J     y 1 - December 31
Follom-on Project fame                                    Provtncial Ports Probeet
Loan/CredIt lSmbr                                       Loan 2533-PU
mount (USS Million)                                     32.0
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                              06130/87
MISSION DATA
No. of        !o. of                           Date of
It"                               Month. Tear       Weeka         Percona       Man-weeke           8eort
Identificatton                             01/79            2.0             2            4.0            OV13/79
Preparation                                 03179 7                                       ir t   0      o  `1179
Preappraisa                                07/79            2.0             3            6.0            08/03/79
Appraisal                                   O79             4.0             3            1.0             1113/79
Total                                                5  r                         2T.0O
Supervision 1                               10/80           1.0                                         12/18/80
Supervtsion tt                             03/81            1.0             1             1.0 -0O4/0)181
Superviston tl2                            07181                                         l07/2 718
Supervistin IV                               t/781          0.5             l            0.5            11/23/81
Supervttion V                              05182          - 0l1 u77'18_
Supervtsion Vt                              01/83           -.                           l2.0           03/)8/83
Sugervtsion VII                            02183                                           0 I  l.      03/25i8
Supervtsion VIII                           02/84            1.3             2             3.0           03/23/84
SupervIston LI                             07/14            t.0___ 207/847M
Supervision X                                       02/85    .3                           1.      0       04/08/85
Superviston X1              034/86                    7       T1.0                                      0 1370
Completion                              ______               10                               _8a 0614/88
Total                                                                             1.
COUNTRY EXCUAIGC RATES
Name of Curreney (abbreviation)                                             Peo                      C P )
Years
Apprasla  Veer Average          1979                                  Exchange pAtes US$I *            7.30
lanterning Teara Average       1980-85                                               US$1           P
Completion yer                  I19                                                   USSI *        P 20.S,3



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
i.        The project, designed to be an integral part of the country's port
investment program, was based on a National Transport Systems Study issued in
1978. That report identified the project ports at Cebu, Iloilo, Cagayan de
Oro and Zamboango as high priority candidaten for expansion to help meet
projected traffic growth until about 1990. The objectives of the project were
to (a) increase the operating efficiency and throughput capacity at these
ports through the introduction of improved port management and maintenance and
the provision of additional berths and ancillary services; and (b) stimulate
growth in the metropolitan areas of these ports to support the Government's
strategy of dispersing industrial development away from metropolitan Manila.
The project succeeded in meeting the initial objective of providing improved
facilities and operating procedures. Regarding the second objective of
stimulating economic growth in the areas supported by the project ports, the
macro-economic and political conditions during the project implementation
period caused an overall decline in the economy, and consequently, the
appraisal expectations have not been met. However, the gains made in improv-
ing operating efficiency and in increasing port's capacity should facilitate
economic growth in the project areas in the future.
ii.       In 1986, port traffic totalled 2.5 million tons at Cebu, 0.9 million
tons at Iloilo, 0.8 million tons at Cayagan de Oro, and 0.4 million tons at
Zamboango.  This was below the levels projected at the time of project
appraisal, when traffic at these ports in 1986 was expected to total 3.6, 1.5,
1.1, and 1.0 million tons, respectively. This significant shortfall in actual
port throughput reflects the lower than expected growth of the areas served by
the ports and, in curn, the lower than expected growth of the Philippine
economy during period 1983 to 1986. Until 1983, the appraisal forecast was
reasonably accurate. In sharp contrast to average annual real GNP growth
rates of 5.0% and 6.02 in the 19609 and 1970s, growth in the Philippines
contracted to an annual average of 3.02 during 1980-83, and to a negative rate
for almost three years from late 1983 to mid-1986. These declines were due to
external factors such as the worldwide recession that followed the second oil
shock and to domestic economic and political problems triggered by the death
of former Senator Benigno Aquino in August 1983. From 1983 to 1086, the
currency was devalued by approximately 802, restrictions were placed on
imports, inflation increased by approximate'y 85%, and cash flow problems
resulted from a decline in the volume of credit available to the private
sector as a result of the Government's need to source its financing domes-
tically within tight monetary conditions. These economic problems reduced
traffic levels throughout the Philippines and traffic is still, in many cases,
below the levels achieved in 1983. However, there are i.dications that the
negative growth has been arrested. A small positive growth rate of 1.52 of



- Lv
GNP was recorded for 1986 with a strong second half performance compensating
for first half dedilne, and prelLminary estimates for CNP in the first half of
1987 show 5.1X growth, largely under the Impetus of a strong performance Ln
the industrial sector of 8.32. If thli growth continues, the intended project
benefits will be realLed.
iil.      Completion of the project was delayed by approximately two years,
primarily due to management and cash flow problems experienced by contractors
at the ports of Zamboanga and Cagayan de Ora. Many of the linancial problems
were due to the country's severe economic problems during 1983-85. PPA was
nevertheless able to complete all originallv agreed works as well as addi-
tLonal project work at two ports for an amount significantly below the origi-
nal US dollar cost estimate. Although the physLcal Lnvestments encountered
some early technical problems, these were all overcome and final construction
was generally satisfactory.
iv.       The project was successful in that lt provided the port infrastruc-
ture and improved operating procedures needed to support economic growth in
the regLonal areas surrounding the project ports. It also contributed to
improving the efficLency of the national port system by designing a management
Lnformtion system to be lmplemented ln eLther a computerized or manual
form. The main lesson to be learned from this project is that if too much
emphasis Ls placed on the tiLmng of realizing economic benefits in specific
areas of a country, the risks associated with that project will increase
signLficantly. for a project to be well balanced and project risks minimized,
a lavgo portion of the anticipated project benefits should be in broader
institutLonal areas that will relate to the entire country not just the
regLons directly Lnvolved ln the project. This is especially true when the
areas Ln questLoat are attemptLng to attract or develop new industries to make
use of fEcLlities beLng constructed by the project.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
r . INTMODUCTION
1.1       The Philippine transport system is primarily bimodal, with road and
sea transport generally complementing rather than competing with each other.
Road transport handles 902 of the country's passenger movements and 652 of the
freight movements, while sea transport handles 72 of the passengers and 352 of
the freight. One of the Bank's principal objectives in lending to the trans-
port sector in the Philippines has been, and continues to be, to improve the
infrastructure of the country. The Third Ports Project had as its principal
objective to increase the operating efficiency and throughput capacity of the
ports of Cebu, Iloilo, Cagayan de Oro and Zamboango through the introduction
of improved procedures and the provision of additional berths and ancillary
services. It was, therefore, consistent with the Benk's objective in the
sector.
1.2       The Bank Croup has assisted the Philippine transport sector since
1961, starting with the first Port Project (Loan 290-PH), which provided
US$8.5 million for procurement of dredging equipment. Since then, additional
projects, including three port, one shipping, five highway and two rural road
improvement projects, have been processed. Lending for highways and rtral
roads projects has totaled US$517 million and for ports and shipping projects
US$133.6 million, of which US$81.6 million has financed port infrastructure
improve ments under three completed ports projects.
1.3       The government agencies involved in execution of the Third Ports
Project were the Philippines Port# Authority (PPA) and the Department of
Public Works and Highways (DPWH).AL' The management of the project was equally
shared by the two agencies. The executive comittee of the project (EXCOM)
consisted of three mmbers: the Chairman, a representative from DPWH, and the
General Manager (CM) of PPA. The EXCOM may be considered as the policy-making
body oi the project. The central Project Management Office (PMO), based in
Manila, supervised and controlled actual execution of the project. It was
headed by a Project Director from PPA and was staffed with an Assistant
Project Director and Division Managers for engineering, monitoring, finance
and administration, all of whom were PPA staff. In the field, PHOs were
located at the four project ports, with each PHO headed by a Project Manager
and assisted by a Project Engineer and his staff. Also assisting the PMOs was
a team of expatriate consultants headed by the Project Chief Advisor and
1/ In 1987, the Covernuent chaneed the name of cabinet leveL organizations
from Ministry to Department. The title of the head of each organization
was changed to Secretary fr%  Minister.



-2-
comprising specialized consultants in soil engineering, materials testing and
fieLd advisors assigned to each port. Local consultants were also utilized to
supplement supervising services in the PMO head office as well as the project
site.
1.4       The PPA is a Government corporation headed by a CM appointed by the
President of the Philippines. The PPA is attached to the Department of
Transportation and Communications (DOTC) and has for its policy-making body a
Board of Directors comprising a Chairman, who is the Secretary of DOTC, a
Vice-Chairman (PPA General Manager), five Cabinet members and a member from
the private sector. Under the GM are three Offices for engineering, port
operations, and finance and administration, with each office headed by an
Assistant General Manager. The Office of Engineering is subdivided into three
departments for port planning, maintenance and equipment, and project execu-
tion. As the name implies, one of the major functions of the PPA is the
planning, execution and maintenance, including procurement of relevant equip-
ment, of all ports in the PPA port system. The Office of Port Operations
deals with the operations of all major ports and the collection of all port
dues and charges through 18 Port Management Units strategically located
throughout the country. The Office of Finance and Administration is responsi-
ble for the financial and administrative functions of the Authority.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Background
2.1       The Government-Bank dialogue leading up to the project began in
1973-almost seven years before the project loan was negotiated.  These
discussions started almost immediately after Loan 939-PH for the Second Port
Project had become effective. During these seven years, the composition of
the project changed significantly. Initially, the project was to consist of a
series of investments to improve facilities and operations at the Port of
Manila; later. the project was to provide forestry product berths at several
smaller ports to support investments in forestry products factories. This
later plan was abandoned due to a downturn in the forest products industry and
because no significant role could be identified for tile Bank. The present
project was based on a study prepared by PPA with assistance from the Inter-
agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning (IATC'rP) and advisory
services provided by four expatriate experts. The-four project porcs at
Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Zamboanga and Iloilo were identified by this study as in
need of early expansion based on projected increases in traffic volumes, che
increasing number and size of ships calling at the ports, and their inability
to handle containerized cargo. A fifth port, Bacolod-Pulupandan on che island
of Nagros, was also studied but traffic projectitns did not warrant its
inclusion in the project.
2.2       The project was prepared by the PPA Third Ports Project Feasibility
Study Team, which was monitored by a steering committee headed by an Assistant
Secretary of Public Works and by Bank staff, who devoted particular attention
to the economic studies. The Government decided on this arrangement rather
than engaging a foreign consulting firm in order to develop PPA's in-house



expertise in planning and appraisal techniques. The work of this team started
in July 1978.
2.3       The project was preappraised in July 1979, and the appraisal was
completed in November 1979. The preappraisal mission found the draft final
feasibility study to be inadequate for appraisal purposes, and arrangements
were made to improve the traffic forecasts and the economic justification
data. This delay had been anticipated when the team was established, but the
Government decided that the value Df the in-house training of the PPA staff
was sufficient to off-set a potential delay in project preparation. It is
estimated that the decision to undertake the study in the manner adopted, as
opposed to a team of PPA staff assisting a firm of consultants, delayed the
appraisal by six months and added four additional man-months of Bank staff
time to the project. In retrospect, the project may have been too large to be
prepared by inexperienced staff.
2.4       The main issues raised during project preparation and preappraisal
were: (a) insufficient land had been allocated to PPA at Cebu; (b) at
Zamboanga, impractical assumptions were used to determine the number of berths
for stauLl cargo vessels and ferries; (c) at Cebu and Cagayan de Oro, the
dialogue with the National Grain Authority concerning silo development had not
been sufficient; and (d) soil borings had not started at Iloilo.
2.5       Detailed engineering for the project started in mid-1980 and was
completed in late-1981. The Government was represented, in this stage, by PPA
and DPWH and assisted by local and expatriate experts. The detailed
engineering plans were prepared based mainly on the recommendations contained
in thc feasibility study and final appraisal by the Bank mission.
B. Project Description
2.6       As appraised, the project consisted of the following:
(a)  Port of Cagayan de Oro
(i)    415 m of quay extension with an alongside depth of 10.5 m
below mean lowest low water (MLLW);
(ii)    one open transit shed for timber products storage and one
container freight station-cum-transit shed;
(iii)    ancillary works including surface roads, services for
water, electricity supply, lighting, sewerage and
drainage, weigh bridges, separate access gate and security
fencing;



-4-
(b) Port of Cebu
(i)    dredging and disposal of spoil for the provision of a deep
water access navigation channel;
(ii)    construction of 550 m of quay with an alongside depth of
9.5 m below MLLW;
(iii)    one container freight station-cum-transit shed;
(iv)    ancillary works including surface roads, an administration
building, equipment and passenger sheds, and services for
water, electricity supply, lighting, sewerage and
drainaNie, weigh bridges, access gates and security
fencin&l and
(v)    rehabilitation and upgrading of existing marginal quay
aprons and circulation roads;
(c) Port of Iloilo
(i)   *iredging and disposal of spoil, reclamation and fill and
dike works, fGr the provision of an island wharf terminal;
(ii)    construction of 400 m of quay with an alongside depth of
10.5 m below MLLW;
(iii)    one container freight station-cum-transit shed; and
(iv)    ancillary works including surface roads, and administra-
tion building, fire station, and services for water,
electricity supply, lighting, sewerage and drainage, weigh
bridges, accesr gate and security fencing;
(d)  Port of Zamboanga
(i)    dredging, reclamation and attendant dike works in the
proposed extension;
(ii)    2GO m of quay extension with an alongside depth of 10 m
below MLLW;
(iii)    one container freight station-cum-transit shed;
(iv)    ancillary works incLuding surface roads, an administration
building, fire station, amenities building for port labor,
equipment shed, an office block for customs and relevant
government agencies, and services for water, electricity
supply, lighting, sewerage and drainage, weigh bridges,
access gate and security fencing;



(v)    rehabilitation and repair of damaged sections of the
existing tee-head jetty; and
(vi)    addition of a new 50 m pier with mooring dolphins, a new
passenger waiting shed and an embarkation area at the
existing small craft ferry basin;
(e)  provision of external access roads for the ports of Cagayan de Oro,
Iloilo, and Zamboanga;
(f) provision of essential mechanical cargo handling equipment for the
project ports; and
(g)  technical assistance and training for:
(i)    siltation and hydrographic studies at the ports of Cebu
and Iloilo and a study of seabed erosion at Cagayan de
Oro, a civil engineering adviser for the duracion of
project construction, and staff training for DPWH and PPA
engineers and for setting up a hydrographic survey unit
within PPA;
(ii)    a study of the effect of increased container services on
the number, type and scheduling of vessels for interisland
passenger sea transport, and consequent national port
passenger facility development needs;
(iii)    feasibility studies and detailed engineering for a future
ports project;
(iv)    improvement of PPA's management information system; and
(v)    engineering services for final engineering, bid evalua-
tion, and award and supervision of project construction.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
3.1       The project was presented to the Bank's Board on May 27, 1980, and
the Loan and Project Agreements were signed on June 13, 1980. The conditions
precedent to effectiveness, the execution and delivery of the project
agreement on behalf of PPA and a subsidiary loan agreement executed on behalf
of PPA, were satisfied and the loan became effective as scheduled on
September 29, 1980.
S. Revisions to the Project
3.2       Substantial savings under the Bank loan were realized as a result af
lower than expected contract prices for the work at the four ports and the
substantial peso devaluation that occurred during the project period. These
savings were made available to the project and were used as follows:



-6-
(a) the loan disbursement rate for civil works, originally 482, was
increased to 732 from April 1, 1984 until project completion;
(b) at the port of Cebu, the quay and back-up area were extended by
about 140 m at a cost of about P 22 million;
tc)  at the port of Iloilo, the following additional inputs were
provided:
ti)    605 pieces of substructure piles with a steel pile tip (to
attain required bearing capacity of the soil foundation) at an
additional cost of about P 2.74 million;
(ii)    additional back-up area for the covered and open storage
facilities through dredging and reclamation involving about
222,00 cu m of hydraulic fill and 6,400 cu m of dyke core
materials, at an additional cost of about P 11.88 million; and
(iii)    a Ro-Ro (roll-on, roll-off) facility to be used by the various
ship-;i  lines, consisting of a pre-cast concrete platform on
steel piles, steel ramp and a lifting device, for a total cost
of about P 3.19 million.
3.3       All aforementioned revisions, except for the steel piles, were
implemented mainly for the benefit of port users in terms of more berthing
space, back-up area and a specialized facility for Ro-Ro vessels. The change
in the pile design waS done mainly for the stability of the structure (quay),
the design of which was based on the original soil exploration results which
were not confirmed by any load test pile.
C. Physical ProSress
3.4       Project preparation was adequate, the only oversight being the
inconclusive information obtained from the original soil exploration works in
Iloilo. The PMO therefore requested a foundation expert to review the
investigation made and conduct an in-depth soil investigation. Based on the
results of this work, a new design was used for the steel piles.  The process
of confirmation of the soil conditions through additional exploration works
may be considered as normal and does not reflect an inadequacy in the
preparation and implementation of that aspect of the work.
3.5       Start-up of works at the project ports was delayed by four co nine
months. This was primarily due to a requirement that the Office of the
President review contracts before issuing the notice to proceed. This re-
quirement should have been anticipated in the preparation of the implementa-
tion schedule, but since it was not, the overall project was delayed by ap-
proximately six months. Several minor technical problems also appeared in the
early phase of implementation, but these did not affect the completion date.



3.6       Subsequently, implementation was delayed by an additional year, the
major factors causing the delay being technical problems, weather conditions,
and financial and management problems.  Cebu and Iloilo were mainly affected
by technical problems and weather conditions while Cagayan de Oro and
Zamboanga suffered from all four factor-.  Contractors at Cebu and Iloi'u
encountered various types of technical problems which were given prompt
attention, discussed and solved by all parties concerned.  At Cebu, some of
the most significant delays were in dredging, reclamation and rockworks.  Cebu
also suffered from two major typhoons which damaged some equipment of the
concractor:  the continuous rains also severely affected the paving works.  At
Iloi;o, unstable soil conditions necessitated additional soil investigation
and the redesign of the steel piles for the quay structure. Other minor
problems were intermittent rains. slow production of rock materials and slow
delivery of steel frames for the covered storage facilities made in Manila.
The technical problems in Cebu and Iloilo were, however, attended to in time
and solved immediately so that the contractors were on schedule by the end of
1984 and even slightly ahead of schedule by the middle of 1985.  See Tables 1
and 2 for the actual and expected implementation dates for each port and for
the percentage of work completed by the original contract completion date.
3.7       The contractor at Cagayan de Oro erz'ountered various technical
problems, the most significant of which were:
(a) frequent breakdown of equipment;
(b) excess of unsuitable materials over that in the contract quantity;
and
(c)  problematic pile driving operations due to erratic behavior of piles
during driving.
Project management was also a problem in that coordination at the contractor's
head and field offices was poor and the Project Manager had to clear all his
decisions with his head office before proceeding on them. Although the
various technical and management problems were addressed and solved promptly,
the contractor's financial problems were less easily overcome. The
contractor's cash flow suffered severely because of successive devaluations of
the peso and a very low bid price of P 123,456,789 which was about 20% below
the approved Government estimate. Aggravated by the devaluation and the
increasing cost of construction materials, the contractor decided on a
complete shutdown of work on December 14, 1984. At this point, only about 30%
of the work had been accomplished in a span of more than two years. The PMO.
in an effort to prevent a major delay, called for a series of conferences
among all parties concerned. Final negotiations resulted in a co-venture,
with the Iloilo contractor acting as the managing principal. Early in 1985,
the Iloilo contractor took the major role in implementing the unfinished
portion of the project, the completion date of which was revised from August
23, 1985 to November 30, 1986. From then on, although there were some minor
problems, the project progressed smoothly and was completed as scheduled.
3.8       At Zamboanga, the contractor had several early technical problems
such as:



- 8 -
(a) low output in dredging brought about by an inappropriate type of
dredger which frequently broke down; and
(b) lack of equipment for quarrying, handling and hauling of rocks to
the job site.
These technical difficulties were aearavated by the folLowing management
problems:
(a)  lach of manpower and skilled supervisors with adequate experience in
marine works;
(b) improper planning and scheduling of works; and
(c) internal conflict of interest between the member contractors of the
joint venture.
As a result of close supervision by the PMO, these problems were ultimately
resolved. However, in view of the delays, the contract time was extended from
February 4, 1985 to February 14, 1986.
3.9       With the exception of the financial problems brought about by the
deterioration of the national economy, no major management problems were
encountered. After the successive devaluations in 1983 and 1984, the PMO was
unable to comply with the increased requirement for local counterpart funds to
pay the contractors' invoices. The PM0 remedied the situation by processing
only that portion of billings covered by the Bank loan, while the local
portion was held until funds were released. The Bank also respondex to this
problem by increasing its disbursement rate from 481 to 731 starting April 1,
1984, so that the local share decreased from 521 to only 27X.
3.10      Implementation of the insticizxonal components of the project went
well. All training programs for PPA technical personnel on the operation of
the generator set, electrical system and cargo handling equipment were
completed as scheduled. The status of the other project components under the
technical assistance program is as follows:
Component                               Status
1.   Strengthen.ng of hydrographic           Phase I  - CompLeted
organization and survey                 Phase II - Deferred
2.   tnterisland Passenger Transport         Completed
Study
3.   HIS Improvement Project (Phase Ia)      Completed and one micro
computer has been acquired
4.   Feasibility study for the Fourth        Completed
Ports Project



- 9 -
D. Reporting and Procurement
3.11      Reporting requirements were generally complied with.  Monthly,
quarterly and annual reports on the progress of the project were prepared by
PMO and were regularly submitted to the Bank.
3.12      As Table 3 indicates, all covenants to the Loan and Project
Agreements were, with minor exceptions, complied with.
3.13      There were no procurement problems other than those resulting from
the country's financia'L difficulties during the project period, avd these
delays were minor and did not affect the final completion dates. At the
request of the Department of Finance, the Loan Agreement was amended to allow
for domestic preference for goods manufactured in the Philippines. Cargo
handling equipment was procured by PPA with financing provided by the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF).
3.14      International competitive bidding was used for all government-
supplied materials and equipment. Japan supplied the rubber fenders, the
generator sets, and part of the steel sheet piles together with Luxembourg.
The supply of mroring fixtures was awarded to a local manufacturer, crane
rails were supplied by the United Kingdcm and weighbridges by Brazil. The
largest amount of imported materials (sceel pipe piles) worth P 67 million was
from the Peoples' Republic of China. Cargo handling equipment for Cebu and
Cagayan de Oro was procured from Japan under the OECF loan credit.
3.15      International bidding was used for civil works and the procurement
of all government-supplied materials and equipment. The main benefits derived
from international bidding were competitive pricing for the project, high
quality materials and the opportunity given to medium-size local contractors
to merge with foreign firms and win in the civil works bidding. The
procurement of all items was satisfactory.
E. Costs
3.16      Actual project costs are compared to appraisal estimates in
Table 4. The estimated total project costs at appraisal were US$165.0 million
or P 1,204.7 million including local taxes, duties and contingencies. Actual
costs were US$103.2 million or 37% below the appraisal estimates, but were 31X
above appraisal estimates when expressed in pesos (P 1,577.3) due to the large
currency devaluation that occurred during project implementation (P 7.3 a US$l
to P 20.4 = USS1). While the cost of imported material almost tripled during
implementation, the foreign component of the contracts was small. In addi-
tion, the contracts were all expressed in pesos, and even after reflecting the
12Z and later the 30Z escalation clauses in the contracts, the final cost of
the project was still lower than originally estimated when expressed in US
dollars. The final cost of the project was reduced by P 68 million to reflect
the lower than estimated cost of the contract quantities. These cost savings
enabled approximately P 98 million of related high priority components to be
financed under the project.



- 10 -
F. Disbursements
3.17      Accumulated disbursements from the loan by quarter compared with
appraisal estimates are presented in Table 5.  Disbursements from the various
categories of the loan are shown in Table 6.  Disbursements took place over
six years instead of the five vears planned at appraisal. The delay was
primarily due to slower than expected project implementation, and the original
loan closing date of June 30, 1985 was extended by one year to June 30, 1986.
3.18      At appraisal, it was estimated that the loan would finance 48% oi
civil works and 41% of total project costs. As a result of the high rate of
inflatiotn and the large peso devaluations, the disbursement percentage for
civil works was increased to 73% of all expenditures incurred after April 1984
and the Bank loan ultimately financed over 65% of the actual costs. Even with
the revised disbursement percentages, the Government was not able co utilize
the entire loan and US$134,000 was cancelled after loan closing. See Table 7
for a summary of the project's financing.
C. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.19      The foreign and local consultants contributed substantially to the
design and revision of the plans and to the supervision of the project. Their
overall performance in the project was considered very satisfactory.
3.20      No major problem arose in connection with the services of the civil
works contractors for Cebu and Iloilo. However, in the implementation of the
project in Cagayan de Oro and Zamboanga, the contractors were confronted with
the problems discussed above (paras. 3.7-3.8).
3.21      Overall, the suppliers of the government-supplied materials and
equipment performed adequately, although some minor delays occurred due to the
scarcity of foreign currency for imports.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.1       When the project was appraised, the forecast for the economy was for
continued strong growth. The project ports were expected to benefit from the
improving economy, from the policy of increasing the economic rate of growth
outside of Metro Manila, and from the increase in containerized cargo. As the
data and graphs in Tables 8, 9, and 10 indicate, this forecast was reasonably
accurate until 1983 when the country's economy began an almost three-year
decline. Since the second half of 1986, the economy has again begun to grow
at the rates forecasted at appraisal, and if this growth continues as
projected, the traffic originally forecasted for the project ports will
ultimately be realized.
4.2       As a result of the poor economy, the actual cargo at the project
ports is below the appraisal forecasts and the projected trend to more
containerized cargo has failed to materialize. With the exception of Cebu,
where the container traffic has grown, the container berths and facilities
conscructed under the project are frequently used as multipurpose terminals,



- 11 -
and since the totai 1986 traffic in three of the ports is below the 1980
levels, the facilities constructed under the project are generally under-
utilized as well.
4.3       In Cebu, domestic container traffic has increased more rapidly than
projected at appraisal, and project faciLities at the container terminal are
being used to handle both domestic and international cargo.  The facilities
are, however, still underutilized because domestic shipping companies have
been slow to use the new terminal because their container yards are located
behind the old terminali and are therefore not as accessible to the project
area. PPA is working with the domestic shipping companies on possibLe
solutions to this problem.
4.4       In the other project ports, container traffic is minimal, but the
additional berthing space has resulted in reduced ship waiting time and
general decongestion in the ports. In Iloilo, the projected traffic in
refined sugar has not materialzed due to the continued depressed condition of
the sugar industry. In Cagayan de Oro, the new terminal is being used by both
foreign and domestic shipping lines, but the new operator has not been
successful in attracting sufficient traffic away from the operator in the
older terminal or in locating new traffic.  As a result the new facility is
currently underutilized while the older terminal is busy.  In Zamboanga, the
actual traffic is still below that which existed in 1980, and the efficiency
of the terminal is below expectations because of the security problems in the
area.
4.5       The management of PPA is aware of the fact that the newly
constructed port facilities are not being properly utilized and that the
traffic needs to be reallocated in order to maximize the use of all of PPA's
assets. One of the reasons for the inadequate utilization of the ports'
assets is that there have been frequent management changes in PPA which have
prevented a consistent approach to the problem from being implemented. The
present management team is experienced and it appears to have the scrong
support of the Government. They have initiated the following actions to
reallocate the port traffic in order to make greater and more efficienc use of
PPA's assets:
(a) the Commercial Services Department was established to help market
the ports' services;
(b) facilities such as the Manila International Container Terminal are
being privatized in an accempt to increase their utilization and
efficiency;
(c) discussions are being held with shipping companies to develop Cebu,
and other ports, into consolidation centers in order to promote the
greater use of containers and to attract larger ships to these
ports;
(d) the selection criteria for arrastre companies are being reviewed
along with their operating procedures; and



- 12 -
(e) as part of the Provincial Ports Project, the port tariff system is
being revised to one that is based on cost, and the development of a
differentiated tariff structure is being considered.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Operating ResuLts
5.1       For the seven years ending in 1986, PPA's cnerating results have
been good even though, during these years, the country has seen the consumer
price index increase by approximately 160% and the peso devalued, relative to
the US dollar, by a comparable amount (Tables 11 through lld). At the same
time, the total cargo tonnage through government ports has increased at an
annual rate of less than 2% per year since 1981, while the total cargo has
declined at an annual rate of over 1%. Despite these developments, actual
operating results were above those forecasted at the time of appraisal in
three of the seven project years, and the rate of return on che average amount
of fixed assets in operation averaged 5% from 1980 through 1982 and almost 10%
from 1983 to 1986.
5.2       The PPA was able to achieve a 23% annual revenue growth rate over
the period despite virtually no change in shipping and cargo volume. One
factor contributing to this increase was a revision to the billing and
collection system used in the ports. The new system revised the source
documents so that the reported revenue was based on the actual cargo and not
on the information provided by the cargo handlers and ship operators. It is
estimated that an additional P 200 million was billed from 1981 to 1983 as a
result of this revised system. The other major factor was that PPA was able
to introduce eight tariff increases from 1981 through 1986.  These increases
enabled PPA to keep pace with the large inflationary cost increases occurring
at the time.
5.3       The PPA's good financial performance was also due to its control
over the growth of working expenses during the period, which increased at an
annual rate of 22Z. As a result, the working ratio improved from 45.3% in
1980 to 29.3% in 1986. During this period, management was able to offset
relatively large increases in expenses for dredging and administration by
restricing annual increases in wages. In addition, growth in working expenses
was held down because the amount spent on regular repairs and maintenance was
restricted as a result of the controls placed on PPA by Presidential Decree
:234 (see para. 6.1). The above factors, combined with a restricted capital
nvestment budget, enabled PPA to also reduce its operating ratio from 1980
i65Z) to 1986 (47%).
5.4       As stated earlier, none of the cargo forecasts for the project ports
have been realized and in many cases the traffic voLume in 1986 was below 1983
levels. As a result of this Lower than expected volume, none of the project
ports were able to achieve the financial results that had been forecast at the
time of appraisal.



- 13 -
B.  Effects of Inflation
5.5       The Philippines experienced annual inflation rates of 50.01 and
23.12 during 1984 and 1985, respectively, and a cumulative inflation of
approximateLy 1572 between 1980 and 1986. This has had three major effects on
the finances of PPA. First, since PPA's monetary liabilities have generally
exceeded its monetary assets, this inflation has resulted in a purchasing
power gain of approximately P 100 million. Second, the current value of PPA's
fixed assets has increased. The revaluation of these assets will cause PPA's
operating ratio in future years to be above its historical levels. PPA
revalued its assets based on their replacement cost for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1986. The final item relates to PPA's foreign denominated debt
which, between 1980 and 1986, grew rapidly. Despite the large devaluations of
the peso, this foreign debt was presented in the balance sheet at historic
vaLues until it was restated in 1986. The effect of the fixed asset and debt
revaluations has been to double the net book value of PPA's fixed assets, to
increase the long-term debt-to-equity ratio by 502 to 0.67:1, and to make all
future evaluations of PPA's financial strength and of the results of its
operations more meaningful (Table 12).
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Organizational Autonomy
6.1       The Presidential Decrees (PD) creating PPA in 1974 and 1975 gave PPA
wide corporate powers and made it financially autonomous.  As the appraisal
report states, these broad powers were largely taken away in 1977, when PD
1234 was issued; the report expressed a concern that this would result in a
reduction of funds available for PPA to spend on recurring expenses and on
capital expansion.  Those concerns proved to be valid because when the
Philippines began to encounter economic and financial difficulties in the
early 1980s, the Government released less funds than required for operations
and the capital investment program.  Since cuts in the operating budget
primarily affected maintenance, port infrastructure and equipment began to
deteriorate and the harbors and approach channels silted-up to the poinc where
rehabilitation and dredging work is now required. Also, since 1982 no new
releases have been made for investment projects, including those with foreign
funding. This led to temporary stoppage of all projects except the Bank-
financed Third Ports Project, for which local counterpart funds were available
from prior years' savings.  However, all of these savings were exhausted in
early L985 and, as a result, many local contractors were not paid until the
budget was finally approved in November 1985. This situation continued untiL
Executive Order 159 was signed on April 13, 1987, exempting PPA from PD 1234
and allowing it to again operate as an independent corporation with control
over ics own funds. This Executive Order was issued largely because of Bank
pressure to restore PPA's autonomy and the inclusion of this change as a
condition of Board presentation for the Provincial Ports Project (Loan 2823-
pH).
6.2       This same Executive Order also corrected another probLem that the
Bank and PPA had been trying to correct for many years. That was the



- 14 -
requirement that all detailed engineering and the construction of ports and
harbor projects had to be done by DPWH. As a result of this project, ic
became clear that the staff of PPA had the necessary skills and expertise to
be responsible for the design and implementation of their own projects. The
Provincial Ports Project is the first major project for which PPA will be the
sole implementing agency.
B. Management
6.3       The quality of PPA management is now and has been generally verv
satisfactory. However, as a result of a hiring freeze in effect from 1493 to
1985, the number of permanent employees declined by 165 or 8Z from 1982
levels. The freeze not only prevented the hiring of new people but also
prevented the internal promotion needed to fill vacancies created by departing
employees. Consequently, many PPA officials perform duties at one level but
receive the compensation for a lower one. In addition, there are many casual
(nonpermanent, full-time) employees performing the duties that should be done
by permanent staff. PPA, with the assistance of the Bank, recognized these
problems and, starting in 1986, has been attempting to correct the staffing
inequities by formally confirming staff in the positions in which they are
actually working.
6.4       The project also initiated actions to improve the reliability of the
statistics produced by PPA for planning and management operations. Much of
PPA's data previously came from the privately-owned arrastre (Longshore
services) operators, and was often of questionable quality. However, a
management information system was designed under the project to correct this
problem, and is being introduced under the Provincial Ports Project.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.1       The project aimed to relieve anticipated traffic congestion and to
improve the operating efficiency of the four ports by rehabilitating and
expanding berth facilities. The efficiency gains were expected to generate
economic benefits in the form of opportunity costs, i.e., savings in what ship
operators--and eventually consumers--would otherwise have to pay for the use
of port facilities. A full description of these efficiency gains can be found
in the appraisal report, pp. 30-35. This section presents an approximation of
a Lower bound for these economic benefits in view of the recession in the
Filipino economy and concurrent decline in port traffic after 1982.
7.2       Whether significantly lower average ship port time and average
handling and cargo loss costs are now technically feasible depends upon how
completely the envisioned improvements have been made. Strictly speaking,
average cost savings in the operation of the ports also hinge on levels of
traffic (for example, in light traffic, the waiting time cost per ton per ship
may be close to zero), but for the range of traffic growth considered over the
life of the project, per ton savings are not expected to vary much. Apart
from managerial considerations, unit savings are largely endogenous to the
project.



- 15-
7.3       Since the desired physical facilities have been successfully
provided, ex-post expectations of unit cost savings estimated in the appraisal
a*e reasonable. As much has been suggested from observations in the short
time in which the ports have been fully operational. It is still somewhat
early and data are lacking to quantify the full impact of the project on
average port use costs, but there appears to be Little doubt that appraisal
expectations of lower unit costs have been or will, in learning, be achieved.
7.4       The chief factor now affecting the project's economic benefit stream
is the evolution of port traffic following the collapse of the Filipino
economy in 1983 and the encouraging resumption of economic growth sometime
after 1985. The scale of avoidable lighterage and diversion costs are
particularly sensitive on revised projections of traffic with and without the
project. Fortuitously, the delay in implementation occurred when the
opportunity costs of not having the project had dropped and were declining.
The delay in the beginning of the benefit stream avoided low early returns
which, with all other project costs being the same, would have caused the
stronger, later returns to be discounted more fully than they are in the
present analaysis. The spacing out of implementatin also buffered, to some
extent, the effect of the economy's downturn upon the project's worth by
lowering the present value of the total investment costs.
7.5       The completion of the investment has coincided with rising
oppportunity costs that can be attributed to renewed economic growth. In
general, traffic growth can be expected to exceed the overall rate of growth
in the economy. Thus, although traffic levels at aLl four ports in 1983 feLl
far short of those that had been expected, traffic may now be projected to
grow by more than 5S a year. The question is how project returns are now
expected to compare with appraisal estimates, given that traffic is growing
from a lower base for the balance of the project's life.
7.6       Adopting a distinctly pessimistic outlook for future traffic growth,
the economic reevaluation addressed this question by reconstructing benefit
streams based on cautious assessments of the available efficiency indicators
for the ports. Savings in average handling costs are considered to be no
greater than originally expected. In the case of Cagayan de Oro, this saving
was initially expected to be small and so was not calculated in the
reevaluation. Likewise, since there is little information on actual cargo
loss savings, these have largely been excluded from the analysis. The
appraisal report's analysis kept traffic levels constant after 1993. Here,
trafic Levels were permitted to grow by only 5%, although they have been
projected to grow at rates much higher, until the Long-run levels expected in
the appraisal were reached, and were then held steady.
7.7       Actual overall project costs, in current dollar terms, were Less
than had been provided for. In considering the extent of the devaluation of
the peso and domestic inflation, total project costs were presumed, in 1980
currency terms, to be no less than originally estimated. The year by year
allocation of costs was based on the actual schedule of disbursements. First
year benefits in each of the ports were pro rated according to the start of
full operations. Other details are included in the project files. The
results of the reevaluation are summarized in the table below.



- 16 -
Ex-post and Appraisal Estimates of Economic Rates of Returns
Proportion
of Total               Rate of Return (Z)
Port Work              Investment (Z)   Ex-post estimate        Appraisal estimate
Cagayar. de Oro              19                   29                   18
Cebu                         35                   12                   21
Iloilo                       28                   32                   45
Zamboanga                    18                   19                   25
Total Project           100                   21                   30
7.8       Except for Cebu, in this pessimistic reassessment of the project,
the estimated Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) are still well above the
opportunity cost of capital, considered here to be 12S. Moreover, the ERRs,
except for Cebu, are relatively insensitive to joint decreases of expected
benefits and increases of maintenance costs of 25X. Of Cebu, the reevaluation
suggests that this port subproject is at least marginal.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1       As stated earlier, the Bank and PPA considered several alternative
port projects before deciding on this particular series of investments. The
project was consistent with the objectives of both the Covernment and the Bank
in that it was designed to promote the expansion of the regional economies
supported by the project ports by providing necessary port infrastructure and
by improving port operating procedures in order to reduce the total cos'ts of
cargo handling. These objectives are consistent with the objectives of the
Bank's first two loans to the port subsector and with those of the fourth
loan, the Provincial Ports Project, which was also designed to rehabilitate
and expand port infrastructure in the country's smaller regional ports. The
Third Ports Project and the Provincial Port Project also emphasized the
strengthening of PPA by providing management and operational training as well
as the design and implementation of a computerized port management information
and cost accounting system.
8.2       Neither the size nor the complexity of the project caused any
implementation problem; however, the project implementation schedule was
overly ambitious, and did not provide sufficient time for contractors' start-
up or for unexpected delays. As a result, the project was delayed by approx-
imately four to nine months before work even started, and even though the
contractors were able to adhere to the prescribed schedule oace work started,



- 17 -
a supervision mission in 1982 indicated that a one-year delay in impLementa-
tion was expected. It was not reasonable to expect the type of financial
priblems that the project then encountered, but if there had been some slack
in the project timetable, the problems might not have resulted in the delays
that were ultimately realized.
8.3       All components of the project were supervised by the Transportation
livision of the East Asia and Pacific Projects Department. During the impLe-
mentation period. a total of 11 supervision missions visited the
Philippines. An average of about 3 staff-weeks per year were spent in the
supervision effort in the field. The quality of the working relationship
between che Bank and PPA was excellent.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.1       As stated earlier, the Philippine economy suffered an economic
recession during implementation of the project, and as a result, cargo tonnage
in the project ports declined to levels below those achieved prior to the
project in 1980. While current traffic forecasts for each of the project
ports indicate continued steady growth from levels achieved in 1985, traffic
levels in i990 are still expected to be substantially below those anticipated
at appraisal. Therefore, it is difficult to predict with certainty what the
project's final conclusion will be, but if the recent economic growth
continues, the primary uncertainty will be when, not whether, the expected
project benefits will be realized.
9.2       As a result of the project, infrastructure in the project ports has
been modernized and port operating procedures have been improved so that the
areas supported by the project ports will be in a position to realize the
maximum benefit from their projected economic growth. In addition, the
project ports, and the ertire port system, will benefit from the institutional
improvements made to PPA under the project and from the financial and
technical autonomy achieved by PPA during the project period. Now, with
control over the engineering and construction of all ports under its
responsibility, PPA is in a position to select and implement port projects
that will complement and act as feeders to the larger ports. PPA's ongoing
reorganization also places greater importance on the performance of port
managers and in establishing better relationships with port users. In
addition, a marketing staff has been created in PPA's central office to be
ro-sponsible for selling PPA's servicea to the public and port users.
9.3       The project was successful in achieving its primary objective of
increasing the operating efficiency and throughput capacity at the project
ports through the introduction of improved port management and maintenance and
the provision of additional berths and ancillary services. The project was
also successful in making improvements in the management information systems
by designing systems to monitor cargo and vessel movements, billing and
collections and statistics. The implementation of these systems will be
completed under the Provincial Ports Project. Even though the project
realized most of its objectives, the economic rate of return is estimated to
be slightly below that forecasted at apppraisal because of the macro-economic



- 18 -
and political problems affecting the country during implementation. As a
result of these national problems, the project was not able to achieve its
second objective of stimulating growth in the metropolitan areas of these
ports to support the Government' s strategy of dispersing industriaL
development away from metropolitan Manila. The appraisal could not have
foreseen the economic problems experienced by the Philippines during project
implementation, nor is there any indication that the appraisal's goals,
strategies or assumptions were invalid or unrealistic. It can, however, be
concluded that, since a large percentage of the benefits to be realized from
this project were dependent on the timing and extent of economic growth in
four regional economies, the risks asrociated with the project may have been
underestimaced. However, if present traffic forecasts are accurate, the
project's second objective will be achieved and the project benefitas will be
realized, although later than expected.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-P11)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Percent of tle
Beginning           Completion         works completed
Project          Bid receipt         Contract award            of work              of work            by expected
component    Actual   Expected   Actual   Expected   Actual   Expected   Actual   Expected   completion date
Cebu          May 15    May 15    Jun 29    July 15   Mar 3         Nov 15    Feb 28    Mar 2             84.16
1981      1981       1981       1981       1982       1981       1986       1985                             _
Iloilo       Apr 15    Apr 15    Jun 22    J.i 15    Mar 3          Oct 15    Dec 12    Mar 2             80.17
1981      1981       1981       1981       1982       1981       1985       1985
Zamboanga    Apr 30    Apr 30    Jun 22    Jun 30    Feb 6          Oct 31    Feb 14    Feb 5             50.56
1981      1981       1981       1981       1982       1981       1986       1985
Cagayan      May 29    May 29    Jun 26    July 30   Aug 25    Nov 30    Nov 30    Aug 23                 44.44
de Oro      1981      1981       1981       1981       1982       1981       1986       1985
_~



- 20 -
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Percentage of Work Completed
(P '000)
Physical /a    Financial /a   Financial /b
Item                        (M)             (P)             (P)
Cebu
1. Mobilization and general
expenses                       96.12           13,344           14,710
2.  Dredging/rockworks                91.29           41,549           43,633
3.  Quay structure                    97.45           36,467           37,421
4.  Building/misc, structure          96.65           25,317           25,750
5.  Roads & pavement                  72.96           40,160           55,014
6.  Utilities                         81.62           55,695           58,973
7.  Rehabilitation of existing
quay                           81.10            4,659           5,745
8.  Quay extension work
(EWO No. 3)                      -                  -          22,372
9.  Dayworks                            -                617            1,423
Total                     84.16         217,808          265,041
Iloilo
1. Mobilization and general            .
expenses                       91.96           16,983           18,990
2.  Dredging, reclamation, rock-
works, and slope protection   99.99            55,436           55,440
3.  Quay structure                    98.33           46,894           47,574
4.  Administration building           87.80            3,015            3,686
5.  Container freight station shed   77.85             8,084           11,567
6.  Passenger shed                    63.08              920            1,660
7.  Workshop & fire station           50.99            1,068            2,267
8. Amenity block, equipment shed,
main gate and fences           51.96            1,846           3,728
9.  Roads & pavement                  34.38            6,769           18,492
10. Drainage and sewerage             72.69            2,610            3,276
11. Water supply system               61.81            1,306            2,109
12. Electrical lighting and water
supply                         25.51            4,139          14,798
13. Access road and bridge            81.63           10,643           12,884



- 21 -                           Table 2
Page 2 of 2
Physical /a    Financial /a   Financial /b
Item                         (M)   -t         (P)             (P)
14. Dayworks                           63.19                515             572
i5f Back-up area                         -                    -          11,878
16. Ro-Ro                                -                    -           3,192
Total                      80.17           160,228         212,114
Cagayan de Oro
1. Mobilization and general
expenses                        84.62            13,615           16,282
2. Dredging, reclamation and
rockworks                       86.03            18,089          19,971
3.  Quay structure                      51.91            19,607          32,966
4.  Buildings                           12.28             2,489          18,375
5.  Roads and pavement                  11.82               955          21,091
6.  Services                            19.32               671           2,926
7. Electrical, lighting and
power supply                     1.56               284          20,092
8.  Access roads and bridges            29.20             1,490           6,185
9.  Dayworks                              -                 250             543
10. Provisional sum                      -                  634             634
11. Repair works                         -                    -              26
Total                      44.44            58,084         139,089
Zamboanga
1. Mobilization and general
expenses                        86.45            14,021           16,778
2. Dredging, reclamation and
rockworks                       76.29            13,843          18,369
3.  Quay structure                      66.00             9,665          15,531
4.  Buildings                           73.67            18,217          29,305
5.  Roads, pavement and bridges         27.69             4,298          14,996
6.  Services                            37.88             1,916           6,465
7.  Electrical                           2.49               501          21,346
8.  Access road                         13.91               870           7,982
9.  Dayworks                             -                1,310           1,891
Total                         50.56            64,641         132,663
/a   Actual physical and financial accomplishments as of the original contract
target dates of completion of the four project ports.
/b   Actual financial accomplishments of the project ports as of their
respective revised completion dates.



- 22 -
Table 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Major Loan Covenants
Section                   Covenant                                Status
Loan Agreement
Port of Cebu
3.09(a)     Removal of wrecks in the access             Two have been removed;
channel                                     the third is subject to
court litigation
Port of Iloilo
3.08        Acquire right-of-way and construct           Complied with
port access road
Port of Cagayan de Oro
3.07        Relocation of squatters                      Complied with
3.08        Acquire right-of-way and construct          Complied with
port access road
Port of Zamboanga
3.08        Acquire the right-of-way and con-           Complied with
struct port access road
3.09(b)     Relocate fishing vessels anchorage          Complied with
General
3.05        Establish a Project Executive Com-          Complied with
mittee and appoint a Project Manage-
ment Staff
3.06        Acquire the land necessary for the          Complied with
project
3.10        PPA to determine the number of               Complied with
arrastre firms to operate at each of
the project ports



- 23 -
Table 3
Page 2
Section                   Covenant                               Status
.ProlecAreement
Financial
4.02        PPA to submit audited accounts to           Complied with
the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year
4.03        PPA will not undertake any change in        Complied with
the Investment Plan exceeding 10% of
the planned investment in any fiscal
year and not enter into craft or
equipment purchase exceeding P 50
million without prior consultation
with the Bank
4.04(a)     PPA's operations shall be managed           Complied with
such that the rate of return on the
net fixed assets in operation shall
not be less than five percent (5%)
in flscal years 1981, 1982 and 1983
and seven percent (7%) in 1984 and
thereafter
4.04(b)     PPA will revalue its fixed assets at        Assets revalued in 1978
least once every five years                and assets and foreign-
denominated deit reval-
ued in 1986
4.05        PPA will not incur new debt if net          Complied with except in
revenue falls below 1.75 times the         1984 when it was 1.24
maximum debt service                        times
Other
2.02        Employ consultants and advisors nec-        Complied with
essary to carrying out the project
3.04        PPA shall consult with the Bank             Complied with
prior to implementing any major
change in its organizational struc-
ture
3.05        PPA shall complete siltation obser-         Complied with
vations and review maintenance
dredging requirements at the Port of
Cebu



THifD PtNTS PRtUF.CT (IIAN ItSS-PII)
PROtJF.t T COMPLXTIIO  REPORT
Summery of Actu.nl and Ortginal Fatioateta of Prolect Costs
ACtiUdl COSt *S a
Aetual tottt (O4r1)0)                           Oriinal                     prnsburt ion ot
US5       Tota1 15W   _  eatisat.e of coOt (Otl)         Orig. piut.       CAntract
Local    Forelgn    equIiv-    contract         Local   Foregtn  Total US$  oef C*  t (2)           .umot.nt
Project coponent                                             currentcy      US       41tent /a   aSnunt lb  currency       US$    equsiv. Jc   la h  x )III,  J. lb x 3l8)
Civil Ilorks
Cebu                                                        I15,2014    13,214       19,771      12,874      116,191   111,127    26,044             7h              hi)
I loilo                                                      19,011      12,711      38.973      13,1)91      83,377   lot,465    22,611             114             Si
Cagayan de Oro                                               41 156       9 S66      "23 134     20 599       S1 8S      8 529    15,94[1116         75             htl
Zamboansa                                                    46,t110      7,666      10,785      18,963       64,310     S,606     14,421            75              51
Subtotal                                                 272.147    41.217        61.863    14)S.527    315.7HS   15.727    78S9H1                7H              S9
Engineering Contuoltant Servlces
Ene        C                                                  8,165       1,683       2,223       6,l55        b,691     1,375      2,292            97              16
1lo1lo                                                        6,7b5       1,395       1,926       4,272        5,894     1,106     13913            Itol             4S
Cagayan de Oro                                                4,41'         914       1,212        2,595       4,1tlS      818       I,1811          gm1             41
Zamboanga                                                     3,906        818        1,134        2,952       1,724       742      1,252            91              7H  
Subtotal                                                  23,128      4.810        6.495      15.974       20.416    4.041       6.817            95              41        >
Pbystcel coatingenctes                                         40,403       1,575       6,44S            a      12,015    1,615       8,11W12          SI
Price contingencles                                           131,010    12,023        13,187            0    117,107   10,944       26,986             SI
Total                                                    466.U8      63,625      A8.590      121.5S)1    48S.343   54,127   I;O.AII               71              73
Techitcal Assistance
Ctvli worlks ila istratIon                                         D           )           0            ) t0               214         214            9
Siltation, eroslon and hydrographic study                         52        114         118          369       1,197       1lb         "4o)         Ill              92
Passienger traffic study                                      2,S95         171         363          371         949       1It.        266          3l6              97
Fourth feasibtilty atudy                                           0      2,200       2,200       2,54S        5,490    l,0S5       1,8117          122              III,
Management infornation systes                                      0        529         S29          741         533      l311l       2So           212              71
Eng1neg itng advlsory assistance                                   0          a           0            0         613       339        421             n
Total                                                      2.h47      3 241        3.430       4.028       8,7ht    2.IN) U1     1.5tW            9H              al
Project subtotal subject to S1ank loan                   469.535    66.866       92.1120    125.529    494.103   56627    124.111                 74              71
OtI,er items
Equtntent procuremnt                                               0          1)          I) n)               411,9941  11,1511    1h,911
AcquIsitIon of land                                          41,01)15         0       5,257       5,257       41,no)5        O)       ,              91             igloo
Taxes and duties-civil works                                128,457           1)      5,948           10    112,291          41)   31,122            31
Total                                                    169.462           0      11.215       5.257    214.2HH    I .ISHl    416 ?1.13          211
PROJECT CRAND TOTAL                                      6W.997    h66.5h    1113,22S    13),786    7118.19i   67,9HS5                I           hi              1')
Ia  Original estimate of cost valied tt P 7.1)) 1t II$S1.-I.).
7_   Wontract agount v41ued .,a tlIIlws::
Ceh             - t 7.71175 to IIS$l.fIl                                                                                                                      O cr
Iloilo          - I 7.72/5 tot IIS$I.41l)                                                                                                                         _
( dgdyall de tirel - P 7.1h7S to 115$1 .1;11
Zagboa,na.,     - P 7.76hS to IIS$1.l)tl                                                                                                                          4.
I.  A lu,.l Ccltit v.ale IJ .1t rCxMI-"g"- r.eto,, prev.6i Iie  .t11 jim,. ,,1  e.ey0ta.                                                                                0t



P1111.1priNfis
TtlKiU P4uRTS PRtOI'M- ("IIA i855-All)
PittiK.4CT ttwlPA.TION  KV411Rt
Eebh,:  AiloiI ad llrigimnio Vastalstems , of Pro uct Coutt
ht116 gnnl .st;.a
655~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c ,m, 1sa1 al ao~TnS
A,'iojl code    NWtI)                          Orlitiniol                  :ar..p".rtil fif,, 
IIS$     TotiaTIJI       eot imate oif Cong9 ('Ohugi)   ?ar I jj7~t. *    i.w,1 (act-
Lxal    Foreilgn    equIv-    cobntrAct        1egical   Fore1if  Total 115S   of robt (2)        8un0t
Project component                                           currny         I15$  al ent /a   amount /b  curr:ncy    US$    equls. Ic   is I/c x lsI           I /u  /b ag hI0
Civil works new construction and dretging
Dredging and disposal of 460,000 a
of spoil, dike work and channel buoying                   14,S31       1,89t       2,85tl      5,945      11,463       183      3,256           Hlt             46
new construction of composite maltipurpse
bertlk 550 a long at -9.S * deptb at IILW.
18 ha in areat
quay snd marine structures                                21,50M    31,111         4,470       6,43b      2.,245    3,HSt       7.1111          1,1             69
Sheds, buildings, fences, gates and welghbridges          12,101       1,848       2,569       3,198      12,121     1*U37      2,793            go             J
Paving and servtce roads                                  2b,640      1,214       4,975        7,#61     43,0110    2.792       8,684           1S 01
Lighting and electrical                                   19,254      2,4)40       2,996       5,859       4,3103      492      1,081          211              %I
Water supply                                               3,h13         333         SJ3       1,012       1,419       112        114           In"             'Al
Drainwe and ewrage                                         2,422         222         382         079       1,3119       59        239           14.11           b6
Subtotal                                                 84.hl7    1011768       15.905      2S.245      88,167    5.343    201.421             711            bl
Subtotal civil works                                     .5148    12.658        18.#15      31.190    115.630    9,207    21.677               79              bIt
Add:  mobilization costs (102)                                  6,14)6       556         956       1,084      10t,53       921      2,3h8            44u             57
Subtotal Including mobilization                         10S,204    13,214       19,771      32,874      116,193   101,127    2b,044            tb             64l
Physical contingencies (102)                                   16,953        889       2,009           0      11,619    1,03       2,0114           77
flase codts                                             122.157     14,103      217840      32.874    1217512   11.14(1    251649              Jb              60t
Add:  engineering services (supervision) (82)                   8,165      1.683       2,223       6,155       6,693    1,3175       ,29!            9J              it.
Base costs with engineering services                    130f 122    15.786      24.1(3      39.129    134.5tS   12.515    31,941               78              to.
Price contingencies to completion                              41,541      4,849       2,178           Al    41,792    3,113hl      1,755            31
Subtotal                                                173,83    20.635        2h 18!1     39,a29    176.297   1I,S19    39,179               e,1             0'4
Taxes - 152                                                    47,879          0       3,16h           di    43,5tlS          I)    S,4l             SlI
Total for Civil Worits                                  221742    20.6hlS         0.tl4b     39.0129   23jt8)2   1179    41s.ts')         t     -h      JJ
o8 Original eatimate of cost valuevd at P 7.30) to US$I.41t1.                                                                                                        -0 r
75  Contract amount valoe4 as follows:                                                                                                                               a  p
Cebu            - I 7.7875 tu llS$I.0l AO  cr
lloill,         - P 7.7275 to IIS$l.WIJ                                                                                                                   lb
Cagayas, dei Oro - P 7.875 is US$3.00
a.sbolioga      - P 7.7b5 t llS$l.00                                                                                                                         I
_ A I 1,d8  C06t v.ilmwd dt exclubove rdtes pruvdlIlIg dt I n  cat .s1 payma1.                                                                                      G



TlirnD PUR PSPAUoCr (1o.8  I lss-Pli)
PROIJECT CUIMPIXTII11 RtElPORT
i11llo:  Actual and Original Estimates of Proleet Costs
ActliJal rot ,as a
Actuul cost ('410(l)                          fIriginal                   r,   u.n lt
US*      Total 1155     eatlasat of cust (l Oitl)       rIit.   ,o       o,,trn.t
local    Foreign    equlv-    contract        Iocal   Foregtin  Tot.nl tlSS   of Cost (2)       anKant
Project component                                          curreawy      USS      alent /a   amount /b  currency    USS    equiv. /    /an /I  X lilt  /a /d  b X l(U
Civil Works
Dredging and reclamation (946,000 ml
and dike works                                           17,315      1,803       3,161      9,256      24,125    2,1141      5.346           59             34
Construction of multipurpose island berths
400 a long Q -10.5 a 81.3 depth, 9.0 ha
in areal
Quay and marine structures                             24,396     6,819       8,732      11,17S      IS,139    5,820       7,894          III             71
Sheds, builolpeh, fences, gates and weighbrldges    9,114           989        1,704      3,1H7      111,42)     1870      2,297           14             Sl
Paving and service roads /d                            13,4670     1,424      2,496       4,191      2tl 194    1,175      3,969           tl3            *7
Lighting and electrical                                 5,4b8        787       1,216      2,114       1 872       395        652          IN7             Sn
Water supply                                              729         16         133        229         974        74        2418          64             St         I
Drainage and sewerage                                   1,094        114         20tt       243       1,055        48        192           144            Hz2
Subtotal                                                54,471    10.209       14.461     21.539      49.854    8,382    15.211             95             t7
Subtotal civil works                                    71.7816    12.012      17.642     30,795      731979   10.423    20.557             oh             57
Add:  mobilization costs (IOC)                                7,291        759       1,331       2,296       1,398    1,042      2,t)56          65              58
Subtotal Including sobiliastlon                         79.077    12.771      18.973        091       Hl.377   11,4hS    22.613             N4             57
Physical contingencies (102)                                 12,758      1,329       2,334)          0      8,595    1,118       2,16S           99
Bate costs                                              91,835    14,100      21.303      31,091      89.972   12.i53    24.478            as              64
Add:  Engineering supervision (82)                            6,765      1,395       1,926       4,272       5,896    1,1116     1,913           liol            45
bse costs with engineering services                    98.6       1.49S       23,229      37,363      95.866   13,759    26.892             llt            62
Price contingencies to completion                            32,963      2,690       5,275           0      31.081    3,592      7,Aui4          t.
Civil works with contingencies                         131 561    18.1H5      28.504      37 .6      126.947   17.351    34.741             82             lb
Taxes - 35S                                                  34,703          0       2,722           tl    38,042          0     5,211            52
Total for Civil Works                                  106.20b    18.185s     31,226      ,7103    164.989   17J1S1    39.952              7i              n4
/   Original esttiste of cost valued at Y 7.30 to US$I.01l.
2! Contract sount valued as follows:
CWau            -   ? J.181S to US$3.00
Iloilo          - 9 7.1215 to US$1.0 0D 
Cagyan de Ciro - 9 7.875 to US$11.00
Zamboanga       - P 1.715 to US$I                                                                                                                        41l
le  Actual cost valued at exchaa  a ratec prevetitng at tlie of paymt.                                                                                            O t
Access road (separate In SAN  iacluded for itet cumrlsoa with l   tual cost (under paving uol ofervie.  r,ee.1) winwrvlo a..,a  q rood ib built-l . 



TIlIIlI) POIRTS PROtA.EtT (L01AN ISIa-"MI)
PROJEF'Ct 430tIXlTlt14 gFWUtIT
Cagayan d. Oro;:  Acttal and Original Estimates of Project Costs
Actual cost as a
Aht nal cost W'(100)                           Ortsinal                    proportion of
DS$       Tolal tlS5     estimate of cust ('000)        OrIg. est.        Cot-ract
sca I    Foreign    equtv-    contract          M. al   Voregin  Total  w11   of cost (2)          amoutnt
Pr.,ject cqomp|nent                                         currency       US$      alent la   amount lb  corrency    US$    equiv. /c   /a Ic x Ion0          a lb x ItX)
Ci vI I works
WllrMiung, reclat.stlon, dike work, wreck
salvage and cimannel htoying                               4,873         6til        929       2,117       5,03(1    1,411       2,1011          44              39
CE:nstructlon of meltipurpose bertha 415a lIng
0 -30.5 a 111.1.9 dvptlm. 10.1 ha In area:
Quay And marine structures                              12,895       5,823       6,690       8,799      14,625    3,723        5,726          117              76
Sleds, buildings, fences, Saucet and weighbridgea    6,381            827        1,25b       2,627     1I,078    1,008        2,389            53              48
Paving arnd service roads Id                             4,185         541         836       1,648      15,061        799     2 R82            29              51
I.Ighting and electrical                                 6,286         993       1,416       2,711       3,119       650       1t1l77         III              52
Water supply                                                682         84         I30         135          227       12%        156           81              39
D2rainage and sewerage                                      292         36          56        126          819         38        151    .      37              51
Subtotal                                                 10.923       8.104      10.384      16,226      :..,929    6,43    12.161              84              64
80ht,,tal cvil works net                                 3S.796      8,905       11,313      18,60       48,959    7.754    14.4U)              78              61
Add:  Iobillxatlon costs (0fl?)                                 5,360        661        1,021       1,996       4,896       775      1,446            71              Sl
S.bitoal lIneinding mobilization                         41.156      9.566       12.334      20.599      51.855    8,529       15.906            78             61)
PIysical *ro,tint.enc3es (lilt)                                 8,2A4      1,021        1,578           0       S,18s       853      1,591            99
hlate estos                                              49,440    101587        11.912      20.599      59.240    9.382    17.497              80              68
A.dl:  Engin,.wrlug services (siapervtslon) (82)                4,432        914        1,212       2,595       4,105       8M8       1,38)           88              47
iBase c usts wItl engineering services                   51.872    II,S(I        15.124      21.194      63,345   10.200    18.877              80              65
Prele contingemnles to completion                              25,057      2,tl37      3,722            0      19,712    2,479       5,179            72
Civil works with contingencies                            7          231538      1I,946      23,194      813057   12.679    24.n57               7A             81
Taxes - 152                                                    34,4h4          0        2.113           t)    2b,143           0     3,609            64
Total fesr Civil Marks                                   113,393   1J52I        21.164      21.194    109,401)   32.679    27,66S               77              91
la  original estlmate of cost vaI,wd at P 7.10 to USS1.00.
7i  contract asmunt vahlunld as fullows:                                                                                                                                 to pi
Cerbu           - p 1.7875 to US$3.4111                                                                                                                             A
Iloilo          - P 7.727S t,, iIS$l.Illl                                                                                                                       000_
Cagdayan de Oro - P 7.875 to US$13.01                                                                                                                               t
Zamohang.,      - P 7.7h5 t,i 112$I.100
/I  Actual m rst vs inted at eratebiuge rates l3revaililnp1 at time ,,f  ayment.                                                                                         0s
Access r.imd (separ.at.  Ii SAR) Imuchl,3ed4 Our Itet  *Aamparbion wItit atual eost (nsder paving and service road) wlmerein aecess road is imilIt-In.                   M



P,lll.IPPrIKS
11111l PrtwTS Pitttuni (At(tAN 1855-,Il)
P3ttUi*ET ElIPlUTItb  RFPFORt
?aabshonh.:  ActuAl and SOriginal Estmales >of Project ctats
Act-tasa cost as a
Ah  ual Coat (6010)                              Original                      roptartion of
US5       Total US$       estimate of Cost (O)            Origpot.           Contract
local     Forelgtn    equly-    contract         L         .,al    FoIegin  Total OSS   of cost (i)   amount
Prossl    s.mqnent                                            crrenecy       USS      alent /a   aaseunt /b  etirrency    US5    eq.,tv. /c   Ia  e x IM0   /a lb u 1I0
Civil tworks-new conatructlin and dredging
Dresdisssg lor recltatlastn (45s1,.NIO *3)
nn,l 4ike woirk                                              5,732         Rill       1,25h       2,926       10,953       621       2,122            59              43
New contruction of multilwprpose deep water qsay
220t a Inte I -It) a depth at N.I.W, 7.S ha In
are.s:
tQusy and a.ris:e  strus,isires                            8,1P1)      2,00)7      2,b54        1,8i4       10,314     1,84U       3,153            82              69
9tw.,s saiid bulldings, fencing, gates and
wiAIglibridges 1(.15                                               1,450        1,8          3,632      10,488      1,052      2,489             75              51
Ibving nndm0  aervile road. /d                             7,273       1,015       1,596        2,h81       19,05S       660       1,270            49              59
.lghting anid electrilal                                   7,417       1,272        1,862       2,615        2,116       489         807           211              71
Uater supply                                               1,414S        202          IIS        89         1,875       274         Sit            22              11                I
;randi.ge ansi sewer.age                                     289          40           63           IS       2,196         77        4n5            16             42t
Channel .nud brldges                                         482          67          105         237        1,3S4        95         280            37              44                Go
%,lobt .||.A,                                              75.151       h.4'i3      82i2m       11.8g7       4t.798    4.488       11,016            75              S9                1
Sethiot.tl elIvI work                                      40.R3I       6.851       9.508       16.819       58.751    5.109         S. 72                           57
Adil:  .s'illpj.aSoon nsINts (1It2)                               5,827         813       1,277        2,144        5,609       497       1,265           101              60
Suhhtolal eivil works witl uobIllIzatlon                   46.710       7.666      10,785       18.9h3       64.360     S          14.423            75              57
Pbysical  unLing.nciell (10)                                    2,408         316          528           0       6,436        561       1,442            37
Base (Cots                                                 49.118       8.0512     11.313       18.963       70,796    6.167       15.86S            71              60
Add:  EgineSering services (supervision) (t2)                     3,966         SIR       1,114        2,952        3,724       742       1,252            91              i8
Base costs with engineering serviees                       53.084       8.820      12.44        21.915       74.520    6.909       17.117            73              57
Price conoingencles to complet in                                29,449      2,447        4,790            o      24,522      1,A10      5,169             93
Subtotal                                                   82.53)      11.267      17.237       21.91S       99,042     8.719    22.2116             77               79
Taxes - lI2                                                      11,411           o          9n8            a      24,403          0      3,143            27
Total fs.r Civil IWorks                                    91,944      lI,.!h7      IR,145      H1915       123.445    R.719    25,h29               71              81
/II itr 15(6.1.41 s-t SmanI' iif cost v.- Iii a t eP  1 Vt I  In 'ISS I .00.
75  Cunfracl .A"menit valuoed .% f0l.sIlis:                                                                                                                                   t
-   ti.-         - p 7.7N75 1.7 ttS$1- .Q 1 ,
1lolll.         _ p 7.7215 t  ItIS$l.14                                                                                                                            tD ,'
t_gayin sis- 1Ir, - P 7.175 ti I15$1.115t
7..smb.,.mnr.i   - P 7.7bi5 t.- 1151.1") i
/s  A. Isaml ,.-.-t  va sasI At exi I..iiai    rot   Irs.v.. ill g1'. Altlmet *i1 pa,yM4.11 
d  Ar.es  ro..1. (%p.ir.sit I S1i SAW) Tql -us 1 ; I"sir Item  omps arls.   i  willi Ostlail sass t (quid-'-r p.vhIg .tl srv tie e road) wIlwrein .' eNNs rou;l Is hbs It-Is,.



- 29 -
Table ;
PRILIPPTNES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US5'000)
Bank fiscal              Appraisal forecast                       Actual
year 6 quarter         Quarter        Cumulative         Quarter        Cumulative
1981         I
II         0.85             0.85
III         0.71              1.56
IV         1.43             2.99
1982         1          4.40             7.39              0.27            0.27
IT         6.90             14.29              0.18            0.45
III         6.40            20.69               1.44            1.89
IV        -%.80            26.49              10.61           12.50
1983         1          5.80            32.29              1.88           14.38
II         5.71            38.00               2.70           17.08
III         5.60            43.60               1.36           18.44
IV         5.50            49.10               1.74           20.18
1984         I          5.50            54.60              1.64           21.82
II         5.40            60.00               1.98           23.80
III         0.80            60.80               2.94           26.74
IV         4.10            64.90               1.96           28.70
1985         I          1.40            66.30              3.91           32.61
II         0.70            67.00               3.83           36.44
III                                             3.89           40.33
IV                                             4.15           44.48
1986         1                                             5.91           50.39
ItI                                            5.61           56.00
III                                             3.33           59.33
IV                                             3.17           62.50
1967         1                                             1.98           64.48
UI                                             1.75           66.23
III                                             0.65           66.87/a
/a Undisbursed amount was canceled in January 1987.



- 30 -
T'able S
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements by Category
(USS)
Appraisal                    Actual
Civil works                                38,000,000                   45,454,645
Equipment and materials
for civil works                           1,500,000                   13,389,352
Consultant's services
and training                             10,340,000                   8,021,959
Unallocated                                17,160,000                            -
Total Disbursements                                               66,865,956
Canceled amount                                                            134,044
Total Loan                            67,000,000                  67,000,000



I'll I . IPit' INK' :
''ll IP) 16O)RTS PKNW.)Ur (IOAN 1855-Pit)
PIROJ CT COMPLETION RHPORT
ACTUAL A,ND ORIGINAL EXI'ECTATION OF PROJECT FiNANICING
AS OF NOVEKBER  3", 1986
LOCAL CURRENCY
ACTUAL    ORIGINAL EXPBXrA'I0N         ACTUAL   ORIGINAIL EXPECTATION
CUIRIRNCY           CURRENCY               US                US
SOURCC3 OF L"UNDS                 PESO                 E So      X      DOLLAR          jY DOLLAR
,ncing by Port Authority             639.00    90.2      708.39M    100          0      0         0           0
It                                      0        0          0        0           0      0         0           0
.onal Agencies                          0        0          0         0          0      0          0          
A                                       0       0           0        0        66.87M   99.8    67.0014       100
0       0          0         0          0      0          0          0
hi                                      0       0           0        0           0      0         0           0
-eign                                                                 0          0      0          0          0
TOTAL                                90.2        1100               66. 99.8  1 00m 
Major Categories
Civil 'Works                          47.33
Government Furnished Materials        11.48
Consultant's Services & Traiing        4.81
Technical Assiatance                   3.24
Unused                                  .14
TOTAL                          61*00
nal expectation was based on 40  IBRD share and 52% local counterpart .|
ing April 1, 1984 the IHRD share was increased to 739 and local                                                   I
erpart decreased to 27s;*. These changes in percentages account for                                                _
ower actual local counterpart than the original expectation.



- 32 -
Pa6.a I,t oI
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 155-PH)
PRojECT comWLETzOM REPORT
Comparison of Traftlc Crowch
ADpraziaL estimate                                          Present/
Annal          Present estimaco            appratsal
Year      Quantity          increase        Act$ial       Forecast        esttmate
('000 Mc)          (2)           -     ('000 it) -                (2)
Cebu
1980        2,593             -            2,524                             97.3
1981        2,739            5.6           2,425                             86.5
1982        2,894             5.7           2,495                            86.2
1983        3.0S9             5.7           2,717                            88.8
1984        3,234            S.J           2,547                             78.8
1985        3,432            6.1           2,243                             6S.4
1986        3,644            6.2           2,486                             68.2
1987        3,870            6.2           3,151                             81.S
1988        4,1tl            6.2                           3,368             81.9
1989        4,368            6.3                           3,600             82.4
1990        4.4&            - .                            3,849             82.9
Iloilo
1980        1,159              -            1,106                            95.4
1981        1,219             5.2           1,127                            92.5
1982        1.285            5.4            1.043                            81.2
1983        1,354             5.4           1,086                            80.2
1984        1,380             1.9           1,058                            76.7
1985        1,449             5.0             807                            5S.7
i986        1,522             5.0             919                            60.4
198?        1,599             5.1           1,231                            77.0
1988        1,680            5.1                          1,317              78.4
1989        1,762            4.9                           1,409             80.0
1990        1,848            4.9                          1,508              81.6
1980          700             -               712                           101.7
1981          733            5.0             793                            107.9
1982          773            5.2             605                             78.3
1983          812            5.0              505                            62.2
1984          855             5.3             464                            54.3
1985          901             5.4             477                            52.9
1986          950             5.4             465                            48.9
197        1,002             5.5             588                            58.7
198         1,058             5.6                           631              S9.6
1989        1,117            5.6                            678              60.7
1990        1,180            5.6                             728             61.7
Cagvua de Oro
1980          748             -               732                            97.9
1981          792            5.9             813                            LO2.7
1982          840            6.1              889                           105.8
1983          892            6.2             877                             98.3
1984          951            6.6             869                             91.2
1985        1,007             5.9             810                            60.9
1986        1,067            6.0              847                            79.4
1987        1,130            5.9              99                             870.9
1988        1,198            6.0                           1,068             89.1
1989        1.270            6.0                           1,149             90.5
1990        1,347            6.1                           1,237             91.8



-   -
*.rHIaD PORTS ?R0 L:J L;853-?H        Pae
.. +  ?ROJE4T CTlO!{ 2E:ORT            B~Pae 2 of 3
?ROJEdT' COZOtET1ON FtEPORT
COMPARISON OF TRAFFIC GROWTH
('000 M et '  tcns)
4000,
4000 N,
2000
80 81  82  83 84 858                             N 889R
a!  E   B  U'
1000  ~ ~     ~       ACTUAL_R
0                          .   ............ ............    I  YEAR
80 81  82  838485868. .          888990
I LO IL O
0  ORECAr BASEd N ACTUAL UPMA 1986



- 34 -
TIRIR PORTS P?.9T (LOAJt 1855-PH)  Page 3 or 3
PROJEdt COwuFtOt R.EPOR?
COMPARISON OF TRAFFC GROWTH
j   ,       '   '('000 Metric tons)
I.  1000-.                ..._..
O .-
800-
200
6CO i        '~~- C,UAL   RC5
J. 
o -8081  82   83e8483               87888    90 - YEAR
Z A MBOOANGA
1400
200
e0 .t
0P r                             8?*; z           YEAR
Eo 8Dl 82  83 84-8:5 8   87  8B -89  90
CAGAYAN d -ORO
* FORECAST BASED ON ACTUAL UP TO 1986



PHII.IPPINES          I
TIIIRD POtTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic at Government and Private Ports
(U000 tons)
1981              1982               1983              1984               1985               1986
Gov't   Private  Gov't   Private  Gov't   Private  Cov't   Private  Cov't   Private  Cov't   Private
Total                25 054   42,753  26,576   45,525  29.332   39,854  25,014   37,529  25,956   35.838  27,339                9
Domestic           18,232   15,803  1I 307   17,087  21,482   15,077  19,153   15,209  19,446   14.924  20,553   14,679
Inbound          10,299    6,343  11,l03    7,052  12,174    7,173  11,037    7,385  11,087    6,474  11,538    6,349
Outbound          7,933    9,460   8,204   10,035   9,308    7,904   8,116    7,824   8,359    8,4S0   9,015    8,330    W
Foreign             6,822   26,950   7,269   28,438   7,850   24 777   5,861   22 320   6,S10   20,914   6,786   21,250
Imports           4,596   15,402   5,127   15,375   5,507                 3,15649   13,584   4,222   13,358   4,644   11,007
Exports           2,226   11,548   2,142   13,063   2,343   10,213   1,942    8.736   2,288    7,556   2,141   10,243
Contalnerized Cars   5,964       n.a.   7,196       n.a.   8.138       n.a.   7,027        72   7,622        351   B,494        585
Domestic            3 957      n.a.   4 995       n.a.   5 721      n.a.   5 065       n.a.   5,562        257   5 823        169
Inbound           1,869      n.a.   2,444       n.a.   2,791      n.a.   2,687       n.a.   2,821        83   2,948        -7
Outbound          2,088      n.a.   2,551       n.a.   2,930      n.a.   2,378       n,a.   2,741        174   2,875        96
Foreign             2 007      n.a.   2 201       n.a.   2 417      n.a.   1,962         72   2 060        94   2,671        41h
Imports               0      n.a.   1,600      n.a.   1,796       n.a.   1,285         12   1,230         14   1,693        152
Exports             607      n.a.      601      n.a.     621      n.a.      677        60      830       80      978       264
Passener Traffic
('000)                     16,167            17,444             la,887            17,874             15,525             1,14
Disembarked               8,246             8,873              9,524             9,147               n.a.               n.a.
Embarked                  7,921             8,571              9,363             8,727               n.a.               n.a.
1-'



- 36 -
TIble :i
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Port Traffic in the Philippines
('000 tons)
Actual                                   Forecast
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Total            67.807  72.L01  69.186  62.543  61,794  63,268  65,175  67,592  70.159  73,091
Domestic         34035  36.394  36.SS9  34,362  34.370   35,232  36,203  38.123  40.18t 42*592
Inbound        16,642  18,155  19,347  18,422  17,561  17,887  18,420  19.397  20.444  21,671
Outbound       17,393  18,239  17,212  15,940  16,809  17,345  17,783  18,726  19,737  20,921
Forel4n          33,772  35.707  32,627  28,181  27.424  28.036  28,972  29,469  29,978  30,499
Inbound        19,998  20,502  20,071  17,503  17,580  15,651  18,552  19,010  19,479  19,960
Outbound       13,774  15,205  12,556  10,678   9,844  12,365  10,420  10,459  10,499  10,539



PN3IPI'INV.S
1110D PORTS PSrOj.cT (OAN l3ss-P)
PNOJECt COIWLETION REPORT
Actual and Forecast Income and Expenditures Accounte of PWA, 1980-86
(Mailda Pe"O)
1980 (b =e r)l   1981               1982               1983               1984               1985                1986
Ite                                 Actul   Aorecat   ctual  Fwoeceat  actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Foreidst
Oerating Reemes
ship does                            25       27        47        29       58        30       72        32       119       34       I6b)      36       194       37
Cargo des                           190       75       220       8D       267        84      293        90       294       96       415      Itl2      542      3119
Otber.                                8       161       12       292       16       313        26      341        32      584        37      624        St      h67
Total Operating Revenue          223      263       219      401       341       427      391       463      445       714       612      762       7Ntt     813 
Opler It-,    1xpeatI e              53        32       S8        35        59       37        59       40        63       43        73        46      7l        56l    I
Other expnses                        48       9S        71       144       O5       169       91       193       141      220       127      248       IS3       2882
Depreciation                         45       40        47        73       i1        83        78       95        81      141       8A       148       140       157
Total OPerating Expenses         146      17S       176      2S2       22S       289      228       328      2US       404       289      442       371      489
Opersting Surplus/Deficit         17       88       103      149       116       138      163       135       160      311)      324      3211    461        324
nixed assets                        2,677    2,881    2,699    3,111    3,300    3,311    3,414    3,911    3,436    5,512    3,536    5,762    6,1t1l   6,062
Leest  Accumasted depreciation        768       779      804       852      888       935      963    1,030    1.050    1,171    1,1410   1,119    2,582    1,47Z.
net nxed Assets                1,910    2.032    1.895    2.259    2,412    2.376    2.4S1    2.881    2.386    4.341    2.396    4,443    4.12N    4.S4
Return as net fixed a*tetc (S)        4.2       4.7      5.4       6.9      5.4       6.0      6.7       5.1       6.h      8.6      13.6      7.3      12.8       7.2
Operating ratio (2)                    65        47       63        63       66        68        S8       71        64       57        47        58       47       .11



PU I WINliES
dlnKE POEtS PFMJECT (LOAN 18SSPII)
PROJE  CT  SLE?OU  EONRT
Cabu: Actual and Forecast Icme an Espeditures Accounts. PPA. 1981}86
(mil lion peau)
1900 (bmw war)         1981             1982              1981             1964              1985              1986
Item                           Actual Forecat Actual Forecast Actual Forecat Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual  Forecast Actual Forecast
Operatilnsevenue
Ship due                       3.:5   2.09      4.17    2.21      4.66    2.34     1.98   2.44       5.14    2.62     6.77    2.82      8.54   1.05
Cargo des                      3.64    2.53     4.80    2.J2      S.95    2.90     7.93   7.08       2.59    1.18     19.02    1.72    22.44    4.15
Otbers                         8.09    8.12     7.713  13.58      9.79   14.61     14.86   15.59    27.69  27.60    22.61   29.64    24.19   12.00
1
Totel Port Operain
lePorte                  15.18   12.74     16.70   16.51    20.62   19.85    24.77  21.11      35.62   13.60     46.66   36.18    55.71  39.241 
Operating Expenses
Personnel                      4.14    3.31     4.29    3.63      4.38    3.91     2.60    *.22      2.94    4.55     3.53   4.92       1.56    5.31
Otber expeuse                  7.05   4.96      9.06    S.95     14.21    7.07     16.- X   . 36    32.79   10.44    42.33   12.53    64.65   15.01
Depreciatlon                   2.71   2.42      2.86    2.44      2.85    2.32     2.5b    3.08      2.58   10.80     2.64   10.80      6.17  10.80
Total Port Operatlas
13.90   10.76    16.21   12.02    21.44   13.30    21.95  IS.66      38.31   25.19     48.50    28.25    74.38  31.14
Oet Operating Revenue       1.26   I.98      0.49   6.49    (0.52)   6.5S       2.82    S.45    (2.69)  7.81       0.16    7.93    (18.61)  8.36
Rat ose
Port operating ratio (2)      91.6   84.5      97.1   64.9    104.0   67.0        68.6   74.2    107.6   76.5        99.7   78.1    131.4   79.4
'.4



PHILIPPIM3S
tIRD PntS PROJECT (LOAM 385S-PH)
PROJECt COLPLETtON REPORT
11o110t Actual and Forecast Incom and exmenditures Accounts. PPA. 1980-86
("tllion peoas)
190 4base year)          1981               1982               1983                1984               1985               1986
Iteu                             Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecaut  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast
Operatini Revenues
Ship dues                         2.12    3.45       3.19    3.S4       3.92    1.65       1.45    1.77       4.35    3.98       3.60    2.043       1.12    2.19
Cargo dues                        5.42    2.33       4.8S    2.45       7.79    2.S9       7.83    2.74      10.48    3.13       10.47    1.28      11.39    3.44
Others                            4.79    4.93       4.62    7.55       4.76    8.01       6.56    8.49       9.28   18.49       10.05   19.44 .    11.15   20.45
Total Port Operating
Revenue                    12.33    8.71       12.86   11.54      16.47   12.2S      15.84   13.00      24.11   23.60      24.12   24.80      25.S6   26.n8
OPerating Exnenses
Pero nnel                         2.26    1.93       2.17    2.06       2.22    2.20       1.28    2.36       1.35    2.47        1.55    2.h0       1.49    2.H5
Other expenses                    3.73    3.61       4.39    3.71       9.20    4.42      11.47    5.27      22.14    6.31      28.46    7.36       38.05    8.69
Depreciation                      1.74    2.08       1.83    2.09       2.07    2.01       1.69    1.96       1.64    8.50        1.61    8.503     4.115    8.540
Total Port Operattng
Expensa                     7.73    7.62       8.39    7.86       131.49    8.6t     14.44    9.59      2S.13  17.28       31.62   18.46      43.59   2O.A4
Net Operatint Revenue         4.60    1.09       4.47    3.68        2.98    3.62       1.40    3.41      (1.42)   6.32      (7.0)   6.34    (18.011)   6.04
Ratios
Port operating ratio (S)        62.7    87.5        65.2    68.1       81.9    70.4       91.2    73.8      105.9    73.2      111.1    74.4      3711.S    7b.8
t3
02
_.



PHILIPPINES
tHIRD POaSm PROJECT (LON 18SS5-PH)
PROJECT olCOMPLETION RKPORW
CaRaVan de Oros Actual and Forecast Incose and Expenditure. Accounts. PPA. 1980-86
(Niilon pgeso)
1980 (base roar)        1981               1982              1983               0984               1985              1986
Iteam                           Actual  Forecest Actual Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  As-Iual  Forecast
Operating Revenuee                                                                                                                                                  I
Ship dus                         3.04    0.55      1.48    O.S7       1.94    0.60      1.59    0.64       3.57    0.69      4.52    0.72       5.73    0.77     p
Corso duea                       2.08    1.42      3.12    1.49       3.89    I.56      3.66    1.64       S.08    1.72      7.27    I.RI       8.20    1.91) 
Others                           2.78    5.87      4.70   10.40       4.78   11.35      S.S9   11.80       7.70   17.57      8.59   18.H1       8.58   20.13
Total Port OperatinA
Revenue                     7.90    7.84      9.30   12.46      10.61   13.51     10.84   14.08      16.35   19.98     20.38   21.14      22.51   22.80
Operatina Expenses
Personnel                        1.45    1.03      1.56    1.10       1.64    1.19      0.90    1.28       0.95    1.38       3.06    1.49      1.02    1.61
Otber expenses                   1.43    1.24      3.95    1.67       7.49    2.04      8.60    2.44      14.66    3.11     26.51    3.75      37.50    4.49
Depreciatton                     1.35    1.88      2.01    1.89       1.79    1.62      1.89    1.82       1.90    6.80      1.87    6.833      4.73    6.8t0
Total Port Operating
Expense                    4.23    4.I5       7.52    4.66     10.92    S.05      11.39    S.54      37.50   11.29     29.S0   12.04      43.25   12.91)
Net Operating Revenue         3.67    3.69      1.78    7.80     (0.31)   8.46      (0.5S)  8.54       (1.16)   8.69     (9.12)   9.00    (2P.74)   9.9g1
Ret os
Port operating ratio (2)        53.5    52.9      80.9    37.4     102.9    37.4      305.0    39.3      107.1    56.5     144.7    56.4      192.1    5h.6
I.-
0



UILIPNIUMES
llllRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAM1855-)
PROJECT aigLrTaolO REPORT
Zaebeonaas Actual and Forecast Income and Ixpeaditures Accounts. PPA. 1980-86
-(illion pesos)
1980 (bsee year)         1981                1982               1983                1984               i985                1986
Items                                                Attu l  For ecet  Atual  Forecaot  Actual  Foreca  t  Actual  Forecat   Actual  Forecost  Actual  Forecast  A4tua3  Forecast
Operating Reenuee
Sbip dues                         1.12    0.83        3.56    0.87       1.80    0.93        1.18    0.94       2.32    1.03       3.6h    1.09        5.26    1.15
Cargo dues                        1.41    1.23        2.0    t.29        2.42    1.15        2.76    1.45       3.51    3.58       4.27    3.69        5.37    1.81       >
Others                            0.53    2.10        1.85    3.33       2.43    3.50        3.31    3.72       3.50    7.99       4.30    8.46        5.44    8.94
Total Port Operating
Reovent                      3.06    4.16       5.41    5.49        6.65    5.76       7.05    6.33       9.33   30.60       12.20   11.24       16.09   33.91)
OPerating Expenses
Pere osel                         1.39    0.99        1.35    1.06       I.S    1.14       0.86    1.22        0.96    1.31        1.12    1.41       1.14    1.51
Otber expenses                    1.67    1.21       2.49    3.53        3.61    1.75       5.61    2.09        9.34    2.65      15.17    3.17       21.11    3.71
Depreciatton                      0.43    0.74       O.S5    0.74        0.70    0.70       0.52    0.70        O.S3    5.40       0.43    5.40        4.17    5.40
Total Port Operating
Expensee                     3.49    2.94       4.t9    3.13       5.82    3.59        6.9"    4.01      10.83    9.36       36.72    9.98      26.42   343.64
Net Operating Revenue         (0.43)   1.22       1.02    2.16       0.83    2.17        0.06    2.10      (1.50)   1.24       14.52)   1.26    (10.31)   1.26
Ratios
Port operating ratio (2)        114.1    70.7       81.1    60.7        87.5    62.3       99.1    6S.6       MA6.3    88.3      117.0    86.8       164.2    89.4
0*
ar



PHILIPPIIIES
THIRD PORTS PUOJICT (LOMU  1855-PU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual and Furecast Balance Sheets of PPA. 1980-86
(hillion pesos)  -
1980 (W e w  r)   _ 1981                    1982               1983               1984                1985               1986
Items                                    Ctf l  Fereceet  Aetual  Forecast  Actual  Foreciat  Actual  Forecest  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forerast  Actual  Forcea.
ASSETS
Current Assets
Casnh a aepsite                         99     283        240      205       173      123       228      124        383     125        646      133     1.2411    136
Accounts receivable                     30      13         38      20         40       21        45       22        49       31        300      34        111       It,
Others                                 319       9        231        9       358        9       417        9        542       9        472       9        116       9 i
Total Current Assets                  448     305        509     234        571      353       690      155        774     165      1.218     176      1.42b      lbt $
lavestumntn
llondsTWng fund                         It       12        11       12         10      10         10      10          t      11         11       II        11       Iz
Fixed Assets
cr-osralsed assets in use            1,946   2,881      2,09S   3,333      2,695   3,311      2,736   3,911       2,811   5,512      2,930   5,762      b,710   6,06.'
Less:  Accum. deprectation             768     849        804     852        888      935       963   1,030      1,050   1,171       1,140   1,319      2,582   3,414.
get Fixed Assets tn Use             1.178   2.032      1.291   2.259      1.07   2.376       1,773   2.881    1'78!   4.341         1.790   4.443      4.128   i,5t
Work in progress                       370     104        638     425        418   1,165        695   1,315        934      129     1,362      329      2,110     479
Others                                 731       0        604       0        605        0       678        0       605        0       605        0      1,291       of
Total Net Fixed Assets             2.279   2.136       2.533   2.684      2.830   3.541      3,146   4.196      3.320   4.470      3.757   4772        7.529   S
Deterred Exondtures
rreVetpr. tTj  witast                  141      67        368      34        138        0       127        0         0        0         t        0          Al
Dredging arrere                          0       0          0      40          0      160         0      120         0       80         0       40          tl      t
Total Deferred Expensess              M4       67        368      74        138      160       127      320         0       80          0      40          0
Other assets                              11        2         4        2         1        2        26        2         17       2          3       2          1
TOTAL ASSETS                        2.890   2.522      3.225   3.no6      3.550   3.8b6      3.999   4.483      4.122   4.728      4S919             11.971 5.004.3
980.
_ tD.
c .
I-



IIIII.IeI'FesN
Tillho PtlTS VUOJECT (LaI" 1855-lU)
PrOJKc  COUL&11t  Ie"PONT
Aetual and Vorecast Sal,uce Sl,eeta of PPA, 1910-86
(Niltion pesos)
iA980    L (beee aer)     1981               1982                1943               1984          _     19"                 1986
Itm_                                     Alctue    Orcat  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecaet  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Foreccat  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecae.
LIABILI?IIS AND EQUIT!
Current Liabilitie
Accounts payable                        102       22        67       Sw         94      107        241      98        539       35        114       52       337       71'I
Others                                   11       34         is      34         11       34         13      34        109       34        338       34        28       34
total Current Liabilities              113       56        85       93        105      141        2S4     132        226       69        452      86        365      104i
Long-ter-LlbS3ittes
Fo-n liabioutlitendilg 186                       139       487      486        646      989       855   1,260       1,053   1,272       1,436   1,325      3,467   1,341
Donde payabe                              0       15         0       IS          0       12         0       12          0       12          0       12         0       12
Otbers                                    0       39         0       35          0       31          0       47         0       23          0       19         0       Is
Total Loop-ters Liabilitties            86      193       487      536        646   1.032        855   1.299       12503   1.307       1.436   1.356       3467   1.114
Deuitv
6.v t capital contribution            2,350   2,047      2,120   2,047       2,399   2,297      2,394   2,617       2,395   2,737      2,395   2,717       4,192   2,717
Reteined earaings                       241     226        333      330        400      39n       496      434        446     635        706      842        947   I,EI47
total Equity                         2.s91   2.273      2.653   2.377       2.799   2.693      2,890   3.052       2,841   3.352      3.301   ]fi LS9     5 ,39   3 7b4
TOTAL LIABILItIES AND tOUIT!         2.890   2.s22      3.225   3.006       3.sso   3.866  3,999   4.483           4.122   4.728      4.989   5.003       8.971 5,24.
current ratio (Z)                           4.0      5.4       6.0      2.s        s.4      ,.j        2.7      1.2       3.4      2.4        2.7     2.0        3.9      I.h
Debt/equity ratio                          6/94    8192      I5/8s   18/82       18/82   27/73      21/79   29/71       26/74   28112       29/71   27J73      39/61   2b114
9.4
. ..
,.  I . .
_I - 



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1855-PH)
?ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic beevatuation: Project Costs and Benefits
(F million, 1980 currency values)
Benefits                                    Costs                        Net
Cagayan                                  Cagayan                                    Incremental
de Ora   Cebu  Iloilo  Zamboanga Total  de Oro   Cebu  Iloilo  Zamboanga  Total       benefit
1982         -       -      -        -         -    21.9   61.5   40.6    24.9    148.9          -148.9
1983         -       -      -        -         -    13.1   36.9  24.4    14.9          89.3       -89.3
1984         -       -      -        -         -    14.6   43.1  28.4    17.4    103.5           -103.5
1985         -       -      -        -         -    27.7   76.9  50.8    31.1    186.5           -186.5
1986         -      16.4  63.1      4.9      84.4  32.1   89.2   58.9        36.0    216.2       -131.8
1987        6.0   41.6  84.9    24.6    157.1  36.5           8.3    3.7      3.1      51.6       105.5
1988       15.8   43.7  89.4    31.4    180.3    3.2          8.3    3.7      3.1      18.3       162.0
1989       18.6   45.8  94.1    32.6    191.1    3.2          8.3    3.7      3.1      18.3       172.8
1990       23.9   48.1  99.0        37.1    208.1   3.2       8.3    3.7      3.1      18.3       189.8
1991       27.8   50.6  104.7    37.8    220.9    3.2    8.3    3.7           3.1      18.3       202.6
1992       36.0   53.1  111.4      40.6    241.1    3.2    8.3    3.7         3.1      18.3       222.8
1993       44.2   55.7  118.5    42.7    261.1    3.2        8.3    3.7       3.1      18.3       242.8
1994       53.2   58.5  125.9    43.1    280.7    3.2    8.3    3.7           3.1      18.3       262.4
1995       62.9   61.4  133.7    45.4    303.4    3.2    8.3    3.7           3.1      18.3       285.1
1996       70.7   64.5  141.9    45.4    322.5    3.2        8.3  13.9        9.6      35.0       287.5
1997       78.8   67.8  149.4    45.4    341.4  18.4    8.3    3.7            3.1      33.5       307.9
1998       87.4   71.1  149.4    45.4    353.3    3.2        8.3    3.7       3.1      18.3       335.0
1999-2010    89.5   72.6  149.4    45.4    356.9    3.2        8.3    3.7       3.1      18.3/a     338.6
2011       44.6   80.7  45.2        19.4    189.9      -       -      -        -         -        189.9
Economic rate of return:  21X
/a  Includes replacement costs of P 58.5 million in 2001, 4 23.5  llliLon ln 2006, and P 18.4 million in
2007.                                                                                                 w



* -     r  J >-,
_;*-   -w  r8                       Lr_  
*       _    -w ~~~~~~~~~Z ..............^ '- +         v g
'.*  '    ';    ,.~* '               47
ts  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,  =   .r
.~~' I'
F - i ^   -         t       ,      r:j :_~~~ 
5-               ,ii -o .R gb    
,~~~~~~~~- :         *~ iJ .. 
~~~~~czz~~~~~~~~.    .... .~ . .- . - 
-~ St -



-~~~~~~~~~~~~ VL  *- . I. A.
! NLVLY *'14Pt.Ln    FACTL.TTF.S                                          U - I
-               -~~~1   A  C  A    A  L   A  R    DA  
It~I
01~- - 2._ 
[10hM1I.~glT                                         A ATICA
Oran
X  (~a~La6  gv e            c F.3         CA A -1 -
/~~~~~~~~~~~~AEAS                                                    I  ,4~~ b -- :_,
-.-jiii N  \\                   a,OA a             IN t
-RW4     '
SIO-                \  si0:



L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1-~~~HEL                                                  ---- ,'--------  ----    1I1
I   \    , :j                                      !1                                                                      - 1 
i' AMm                                  I R
1 2 C(S~ITAINE* IRUNALLSIOL46 YAI?I') z1;o__ vo*   -*^}   9
| S rn\ l 4IIa_,           'I            7 I
\   *   l   \   tlOMLWI E Y  FA^>ECtI.ITKS                                                                  I I 
4  p g kS S El4E R   S h 4E D  
6 O"14JAET  IEO
v:ftSMIOP   AFIOHESA)
CoStiEHATOR SiEt r )
i  oAP iUSE
EtEVkAIt) VArEl UtAiU
CArE               -       Xi t fill"    *. -
t                                        11.011.0~~~F~  L)EVEI  i-r1I



-14.00~~~~~~
Oa
Of IO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I   Ee  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.,t--,             __n--l  _        '               a  
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' :                                          . --  -0S.  * 
a.-. 11-AN9   ;a,-
*~~ ~ ~ *-.                                                *;lY  cr:-
*~                                                        a~ fc. 'z-:  I'
*~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MseL *%  7.
S. RtECLU ttO Si;cl.'s_ bRLt
50'~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* CLSE P.:-$}t ;.^ .r-  :I.
t TRASTt CI  S  :t'D
A 74u 4ST7Ar7c tt.7;.
I ~~~~     ..o. CVArx:ATC.-
I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* --t GT
Fort G; ZQMlBO,-^}JCA DMIC--0.'_'.6?;.it-  PROJ[-9T tt'ESSt Tat.t;Ct etv:s
t:. Ff t  C.
S.  AOA. uflst N.rs:              F'
9;. SA r.::AYC.:{:  
G~~ 7AM  v~~~r'~~ CA Dr ... .2  '.j ,,  40. , v.:u -w.  
tS . S.Tg5:  *:::r:: ma
|4  I : t:i A



