Document of
The World Bank    FILE COp ,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2803-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
May 5, 1980
This document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



{CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency      =  Peso
P1            =  US$0.137
P1 million    =  US$137,000
US$1          =  P7.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton      =  0.98 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
IATCTP - Inter-Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning
MOTC   - Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MPH    - Ministry of Public Highways
MPW    - Ministry of Public Works
NEDA   - National Economic Development Authority
PEA    - Philippine Estates Authority
PNR    - Philippine National Railways
PPA    - Philippine Ports Authority
PPDO   - Planning and Project Development Office
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:  Philippine Ports Authority (PPA)
Amount:        $67 million equivalent
Terms:         20 years including 5 years grace at 8,25% interest p.a,
Relending
Terms:      The proceeds of the loan would be relent to PPA on the same
terms and conditions as those for the Bank loan. PPA would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Pro_ject
Description: The objectives of the project are: (a) to strengthen the
capacity of PPA to operate and maintain national ports; (b) to
increase the operating efficiency and throughput capacity at
the project ports through the introduction of improved port
management and maintenance and the provision of additional
berths and ancillary services; and (c) to stimulate growth of
these important secondary ports to support the Government's
strategy of dispersing industrial development away from
Metropolitan Manila. By improving port operations and
increasing port productivity through reduced congestion, cargo
losses and handling costs, the project would provide more
economical means of transporting major agricultural
commodities produced in the hinterland of the project ports
for domestic and foreign markets, and consumer goods shipped
from Manila for distribution in the influence areas of the
project ports. The resulting increase in commerce between the
major domestic markets near Metropolitan Manila and the
project ports is expected to stimulate the economy of
port areas which are potential centers for future growth.
The principal risks would arise from port traffic being lower
than expected, and the possibility of project cost overruns.
However, even assuming 25% lower traffic projections and 25%
higher cost overruns, the project's economic viability remains
sound. Risks associated with relocation of people occupying
one of the project sites are being minimized by agreement with
Government on appropriate relocation arrangements.
Implementation problems are not expected to be serious as
appropriate administrative arrangements have been made under
the project to provide for adequate leadership in Ministry of
Public Works and PPA for the execution of the project.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Costs:                                           Local      Foreign    Total
…--- ($ million) ------
Port civil works                   43.3        35.7       79.0
Engineering & supervision           2.8         4.0        6.8
Price & physical contingencies  20.4           14.6       35.0
Technical assistance/training    1.2            2.3        3.5
Duties & taxes                     18.1         -         18.1
Subtotal                         85.8        56.6      142.4
Cargo handling equipment            5.6        11.4       17.0
Land costs                          5.6         -          5.6
Total                            97.0        68.0      165.0
Financing
Plan:                                            Local      Foreign       Total
------- (million) --------
IBRD                               10.4       56.6        67.0
Foreign loan /a                     -         11.4        11.4
Local loan /b                       5.6        -           5.6
Governrent /c                       2.7        -           2.7
Philippine Ports Authority         78.3        -          78.3
Total                            97.0       68.0       165.0
/a For cargo handling equipment; funds are being sought by the
Government and PPA.
/b From Philippine Estate Authority for land purchase at Cebu.
/c For part cost of access roads.
Estimated               Bank FY:      1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Disburse-                            --------- $ million ------------
ments:
Annual        3.0    23.5   22.6   15.8    2.1
Cumulative   3.0    26.5   49.1   64.9   67.0
Rate of
Return:                       30%
Appraisal Report:  Staff Appraisal Report No. 2830-PH dated April 30, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A THIRD PORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $67 million to help
finance a Third Ports Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. The proceeds of
the loan would be relent to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on the same
terms and conditions as those for the Bank loan. PPA would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under PHL-77-2,
dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the Philippines
in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822 dated November 16, 1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of, respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfac-
tory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of productive
employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor
force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for
necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor export
performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic industry led to
chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Third Urban Development Project, distributed
on March 6, 1980 under R80-44 and approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.



-2-
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
6% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for overall growth,
investment, manufacturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank
staff estimates.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



- 3 -
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), and about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amortization
payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and corn
land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the ine7rease in total employment.
13.       For histcrical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Due to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is
widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the



-5-
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1972 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery
rates was initially experienced by all government financial institutions and
credit programs. The Government has taken a number of steps to improve
collections; continued efforts in this direction are necessary to improve
financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of credit to the productive
sectors without burdening the public finances.
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.



18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The improve-
ment in 1979 in the terms of trade is expected to be revised in 1980. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.8 billion in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 6% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 20% in 1979 to an
average level of 22% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D. C. in December 1979.
The Group endorsed the Government's request.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
tion (paras. 15-19). However, because of the increase in the Philippine
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms
of trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assis-
tance have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer
can be achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, or
through nonproject lending.



-7-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of March 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 65 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,181.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $93.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt service is about 6%.
These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain
production and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming produc-
tion. Support has also been provided for integrated rural development
projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts
of assistance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for
future growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic
infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect
due to low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's
main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private
development finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting
the needs of small and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estimates.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricultural
and rural development will account for the largest part of future lending with
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Third Urban Development Project distributed on
March 6, 1980 under R80-44, and approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.



- 8 -
continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (National Exten-
sion Project) and for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas,
where there is substantial rural poverty, through Loan 1815-PH (Rainfed
Agriculture (Iloilo) Project). Increased assistance will also be provided for
integrated rural development projects which will support the Government's
objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial assist-
ance will also continue to be given to industry with considerable attention
given to policy reform and to expanding the development of labor-intensive,
small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area. A
program loan to support major adjustments in industrial and trade policies has
been appraised. The share of lending for social sector projects is expected
to continue to increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on
construction of urban water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance
for slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group
will continue to provide support for improving the quality of education and
for expanding the Government's population program in rural areas. While the
Bank Group will continue to provide support for transportation and power
infrastructure needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share
of Bank lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead
primarily because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a
large part of the power generation program.
27.       This is the seventh loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for livestock/fisheries credit, rural roads and
watershed management projects are in preparation, and are scheduled for
Board presentation in the next month or two.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       In the last decade, the Philippines has made significant advances in
the transport field, far exceeding any previous ten-year period both in terms
of funds expended and results achieved. Between 1968 and 1978, total public
transport expenditures amounted to P 14 billion ($1.9 billion) representing
over 30% of total public investment outlays. Since 1975, annual public
transport expenditures increased rapidly (although only representing about
1.3% of GNP), with highways absorbing about 74% of the total; of the
remainder, airports received 10%, ports 9% and railways 7%. These transport
expenditures for the development and the improvement of the hitherto neglected
transport system were necessary to meet the increased demand for movement of
goods and passengers in the seventies, which had resulted from higher incomes,
increased population and industrial and agricultural production.



- 9 -
29.       The 1978-81 projections for commodity flows and passenger traffic
indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of freight and passengers
between the food deficit areas of Luzon and the agricultural surplus areas of
Mindanao than for road transport within the major islands. Accordingly, the
1979-82 Investment Program allocates a greater share of total public transport
expenditures to the expansion of ports and airports: 19% for ports, 14% for
airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for highways. No significant public funds
are allocated for shipping investment since it is largely financed by the
private sector.
30.      The total transport investment tentatively allocated in the Govern-
ment's indicative 1979-82 Investment Program is P 14,374 million ($1,942
million), an increase of about one-third over the previous four-year period.
However, the transport share of total public investment will decrease from the
previous level of one-third to about one-fifth of the total program; the power
sector will receive an increased share of the allocation to implement the
Government's objective of reducing dependence on imported petroleum by
constructing hydro, nuclear, and geothermal power plants as alternative
sources of electrical energy.
31.      Between 1970 and 1976, transport developed somewhat faster than the
economy as a whole: freight and passenger movements grew by about 8% and 7%
p.a. respectively, while real GNP grew by 6%. Freight and passenger movements
by inter-island shipping accounted for much of this increase, at 14% and 8%
respectively, with road transport growing at a lesser pace: 4% for freight
and 5% for passengers. The average annual target growth rate of GNP is
expected to be 7.5% during 1978-85; both road freight and passenger transport
are expected to grow at 8% during the same period.
32.       Road transport is the dominant mode within the two major islands of
Luzon and Mindanao, accounting for nearly 80% of passenger traffic; but it is
estimated that the road's share of total freight traffic has decreased from
57% in 1970 to 44% in 1976. Although reliable data are not available,
privately operated inter-island shipping, serving a population scattered over
hundreds of islands, appears to be the largest transport mode (about 54%) for
freight traffic. The increased share of inter-island traffic has been due to
the growing commerce between Luzon and Mindanao. Relatively short inland
distances have limited railways to a small fraction of total traffic.
33.      Civil Aviation.  The Philippines international airports at Manila,
Cebu and Zamboanga are served by 20 international and regional airlines,
including Philippine Air Lines. The latter provides international services,
and is the principal carrier for 78 domestic airports operated by the
Government. Domestic passenger traffic has increased only by about 12% p.a.
over the past six years, while air freight is still insignificant. With the
assistance of a $26 million loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the
Manila International Airport is being rehabilitated and extended to meet the
traffic demand expected by 1983.



- 10 -
34.      Highways.  The public road transport system in the Philippines is
made up of three major interlocking components: (a) national; (b) provincial,
municipal and city; and (c) barangay (mainly farm-to-market) roads. The total
network consists of about 152,800 km of roads, of which 22,900 km are
classified as national, 29,000 km provincial, 13,400 km city and municipal,
and 87,500 km barangay roads. National roads include about 122 km of toll
expressways with grade separated intersections north and south of Manila.
Except for the toll roads, road classification is often arbitrary as it is not
always based on function. In remote areas such as northeastern Luzon and many
parts of Mindanao, national roads serve as penetration roads providing the
only access to the villages. In many parts of the country, provincial and
barangay roads are indistinguishable, both being characterized by low volume
traffic serving limited influence areas to move agricultural inputs and
outputs and to connect the rural communities with administrative and market
centers.
35.      Despite Government efforts since 1969 to develop a modern highway
network, the system is still inadequate for the current level of traffic. Al-
though sufficient in location and extent, for the most part, the condition of
the roads is deplorable, and missing bridges effectively isolate many rural
communities. Most unimproved roads are in poor condition due to: (a)
deficient designs resulting in inadequate drainage, embankment and pavements;
(b) lack of proper maintenance; (c) damage from frequent overloading (many of
the trunk roads were built long ago and intended to carry only a small number
of vehicles); and (d) insufficient funds to repair flood damage caused during
the rainy and typhoon seasons. Moreover, vehicle operating and travel costs
are generally high, as only 42% of the national highways and 13% of the pro-
vincial roads are paved (compared with 85% and 35% in Thailand).
36.      Major road improvements activities began in 1969 following completion
of the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS), a two-year study conducted under
UNDP financing with the Bank acting as executing agency. The PTS recommended
improvement of about 6,000 km of national roads, reorganization of the highway
administration, and improvements in road maintenance procedures. Most of the
priority roads identified in the PTS have been or are being improved with
local resources, supplemented by assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the
Bank. Between 1969 and 1979 about 4,800 km of national and 5,200 km of pro-
vincial roads have been constructed or improved.
37.      Railways.  The Government-owned Philippine National Railways (PNR)
has a network on Luzon totalling 1,060 km, of which 740 km of main line and 80
km of branch lines and sidings are operating. Most of PNR's track was relaid
during the 1960s with Japanese aid; the rest is in very poor condition.
Management, maintenance and operations of the railways have been inadequate.
Except in the Bicol region, the main line is paralleled by highways for most
of its length and, as haulage distances for most commodities are relatively
short, and shipments small, it is unlikely that the railway will become
competitive with trucks and buses.



- 11 -
38.      The Government's present objective is to improve PNR operations to
permit the railroad to cover at least current operating costs. Programs under
the 1971-76 Rehabilitation Plan have improved services and passenger and
freight traffic have increased somewhat since 1973. In 1977, PNR obtained a
loan from the ADB to rehabilitate its Southern Line (about 450 km), which
serves the area between Manila and Legaspi. A second railway operates an
antiquated 117 km of track on Panay Island: it is presently unsafe but is
undergoing minimum rehabilitation to permit limited services on Panay Island
which will include the transport of sugar to Iloilo port for export.
39.       Ports.  There are 18 major and 76 minor national ports, and about
390 municipal ports throughout the Philippine archipelago, plus over 200
private piers and wharves. Manila, the largest port, accounts for about 46%
of the 23 million tons of cargo handled each year by public ports. Most
long-established public ports are located where natural protection is
available but sedimentation problems occur in many ports. More modern private
piers and wharves, which handle mainly petroleum products and iron ore, are
generally located to take advantage of naturally deep water. Many public
ports suffer from inadequate work areas and transit sheds, and poor mainte-
nance. The cumulative effect of these deficiencies is congestion which unduly
restricts the movement of cargo, slows stevedoring and lengthens ship
turn-around time.
40.       In the past few years, the Government has received assistance from
ADB for improvement of port facilities at Manila, Davao and Cotabato, from the
Federal Republic of Germany for port works at Davao and Iligan, and from IBRD
for the expansion of the ports of Cagayan de Oro and General Santos under Loan
939-PH (Second Ports Project). As a part of that project, the Bank supported
the establishment of the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) which was mandated
to consolidate and assume the port-related functions which had previously been
fragmented between the Bureau of Customs and the Bureau of Public Works in the
former Ministry of Public Works, Transportation, and Communications. Since it
became operational in 1976, PPA has taken over the management and operation of
all national ports, expanded its technical staff and improved accounting
procedures with the assistance of Bank-financed consultants.
41.       The Bank's objective in the port sector is to assist PPA in
developing a national port policy, increasing port capacity to meet industrial
development in secondary urban growth centers, and improving administration,
operations, and planning for all major national ports. PPA's Investment Plan
(1980-86) will aim at increasing capacity at major ports and at consolidating
ports of various sizes and functions in outlying areas where improved overland
mobility makes economies of scale and efficiency possible. The selection of
ports for future improvement has already been determined in the context of the
traffic patterns of the total transport network, the development potential of
the hinterlands, and the natural conditions of the harbors. However, about
50% of the Investment Plan is indicative only at this stage, and initial
engineering for that portion has yet to be done. Assurances were obtained
that PPA would consult with the Bank prior to increasing the estimated cost of
the Investment Plan by more than 10% in any one fiscal year (Section 4.03(a)
of the draft Project Agreement).



- 12 -
42.        Inter-Island and Coastal Shipping.  Despite its status as the most
important transport mode for freight, the potential of inter-island and
coastal shipping has not yet been fully realized, mainly due to inadequate
port facilities and the antiquated local shipping fleet.  There are about 480
inter-island vessels of over 100 gross tons, and many more smaller ships. In
1976, more than 34% of the inter-island fleet and 41% of the ocean-going fleet
were 25 or more years old. Most smaller ships are converted naval or military
vessels, and over-loading is characteristic. There are about 50 Philippine
inter-island vessel operators, but the majority of the fleet is owned by only
ten major firms. In addition to the inter-island fleet, there are smaller
craft providing low cost, short-haul transport of agricultural products for
local as well as inter-island markets, and barges are used extensively to move
raw or refined sugar, rice, and other produce. Coastal transport is
frequently a logical alternative in areas where cross-island road construction
is made difficult by mountainous terrain; thus numerous roadsteads and shallow
water ports have been developed where land access to communities is severely
limited.
43.       The increasing regional specialization in production patterns and
rural development has given inter-island shipping a new impetus to play a
major role in the Governxment's plans for increased food production and
regional balance in economic and social development. The growing need for
food in deficit areas has to be met by increased production in surplus areas
such as Mindanao. This, in turn, requires efficient marine transport of both
agricultural inputs and outputs. In recognition of this need to improve
inter-island shipping services, the Bank provided a loan of $20 million in
1974 for a shipping project (Loan 1048-PH). Since 1977, ten inter-island
container vessels have been put into service by major operators financed
locally and more are expected as port facilities are improved.
44.       The large volume of passenger traffic on interisland vessels is
expected to grow, and several schemes designed to segregate passengers and
cargo more effectively to facilitate faster cargo working have been considered
by PPA. Provision has been made in the proposed project for further studies
of the true volume and future trend of passenger traffic and consequent
passenger facility improvement needs at PPA ports.
45.      Transport Planning and Coordination.  Until mid-1979, transport
planning had been the joint responsibility of the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).  As a
central planning agency, NEDA had overall responsibility for public capital
investments through its Infrastructure Program and Project Office, which
reviewed and approved investments proposed by each transport operating agency.
NEDA was assisted in this task by the Inter-Agency Technical Committee on
Transport Planning (IATCTP), staffed by representatives from each transport
agency, including MPH and MPW. IATCTP prepared standards and guidelines for
the formation of agency plans for development and coordination of transport
programs and projects. It also served as a forum for the resolution of
operational problems of transport agencies.



- 13 -
46.      MPW, the other major participant in the joint planning activity, used
its Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO) to undertake regional
planning studies on infrastructure investments and formulate priorities for
major infrastructure projects. PPDO maintained liaison with NEDA and provided
the bulk of technical input to transport planning. The Board of Transporta-
tion, as a semi-detached unit of MPW, also handled the quasi-judicial function
of granting routes to transport companies and enforcing rates and regulations
for their operations on the basis of IATCTP policy guidelines.
47.      In July 1979, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
(MOTC) was created to undertake transport planning, coordination and regula-
tion. It became operational with a small staff drawn mainly from PPDO of
MPW and the Board of Transportation. The Ministry is still evolving and is
in the process of defining its functions, expanding its staff and preparing
to take necessary steps to absorb the transport planning functions now
discharged by NEDA. However, it will be some time before MOTC can assume
full responsibility for transport planning, coordination and regulation. In
the interim, MOTC will continue to be assisted by NEDA, IATCTP and expatriate
advisors in performing these tasks.
48.      One of the important transport planning activities is the Govern-
ment's National Transport Systems Study undertaken in preparation for a
ten-year transport investment program. As a result of the Bank's Transport
Planning Mission's recommendations, several resident planning advisors were
appointed in 1977 to assist the Government under the Manila Urban Development
Project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) in carrying out this study. The advisors were
expected to assist individual line agencies and MPW with matters concerning
transport policy, coordination and modal planning. However, completion of the
transport study has been delayed due to changes in the advisory staff, a high
turn-over among the members of the counterpart team, and the lengthy period
required for data collection. Accordingly, the Bank's Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1661-PH) included additional advisory services to allow completion of
the first phase of the transport study by mid-1980. Completion of the entire
study is not expected until late 1981.
Experience with Past Lending
49.       The First Port Loan (290-PH, in 1961) provided $8.5 million for
procurement of dredging equipment. About $1.1 million of the loan amount
was cancelled due to failure to operate and maintain the dredgers in an
efficient manner. In 1973, a Second Port Loan (939-PH) of $6.2 million was
provided to assist in the expansion of two important ports on Mindanao:
Cagayan de Oro in the north and General Santos in the south. Project
completion was delayed by three years, mainly because of retendering, dredger
mobilization difficulties and inadequate project supervision control by the
Bureau of Public Works (BPW).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
50.       The objectives of the project are:  (a) to strengthen the capacity
of PPA to operate and maintain national ports; (b) to increase the operating
efficiency and throughput capacity at the project ports through the introduc-
tion of improved port management and maintenance and the provision of addi-
tional berths and ancillary services; and (c) to stimulate growth of these
important secondary ports to support the Government's strategy of dispersing
industrial development away from Metropolitan Manila. By improving port
operations and increasing port productivity through reduced congestion, cargo
losses and handling costs, the project would provide more economical means of
transporting major agricultural commodities produced in the hinterland of the
project ports for domestic and foreign markets, and consumer goods shipped
from Manila for distribution in the influence areas of the project ports. The
resulting increase in commerce between the major domestic markets near
Metropolitan Manila and the project ports is expected to stimulate the economy
of the project ports and their hinterland.
Background
51.       In 1978, a National Transportation Systems Study interim report on
ports and shipping conducted by NEDA and its consultants established invest-
ment priorities and identified the project ports as high priority candidates
for expansion. Subsequently, PPA and its consultants conducted a feasibility
study, financed under Loan 1048-PH (Shipping Project), the results of which
provided the basis for the proposed project. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1980 with a Philippine delegation led by The Honorable
Alfredo L. Juinio, Minister of Public Works. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2830-PH), dated April 30, 1980, based on the findings of a Bank mission in
October 1979, is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are
given in Annex III.
Project Description
52.       The proposed project focuses on providing additional cargo working
areas and deep water berths to handle growth in break-bulk cargos/l carried in
larger vessels and growth in container traffic which also requires deep water
and larger adjacent land areas for handling containers. In addition, the
proposed project would rehabilitate existing marginal quay aprons at Cebu to
relieve congestion there temporarily.
53.       The proposed project would include:
(a) a total of 1,585 meters of quay at the following ports -
Cagayan de Oro (415 m); Cebu (550 m); Iloilo (400 m); and
Zamboanga (220 m );
/1 Break-bulk cargo is conventional, general cargo, i.e., not pre-palletized,
pre-slung or containerized.



- 15 -
(b) rehabilitation of existing marginal quay aprons at Cebu;
(c) dredging at Cebu, Iloilo and Zamboanga;
(d) covered and open storage space, roads, administrative
buildings, utility and ancillary services;
(e) port access roads at Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga;
(f) engineering services for final engineering, bid evaluation and
award and supervision of construction;
(g) mechanical cargo handling equipment (to be procured by PPA with
foreign loan assistance); and
(h) technical assistance and staff training for MPW and PPA.
Project Organization and Implementation
54.       Project construction would be carried out by MPW as agent of PPA,
as required by existing law governing PPA. MPW would establish a Project
Executive Committee and appoint a full-time Project Director, both
responsible to the Minister of Public Works. The Project Director would be
a senior PPA engineer whose qualifications would be satisfactory to the
Bank. The project management office would be staffed by MPW and PPA
engineers and the organization and staffing of the office would be
satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). The Project
Director would be assisted by an engineering advisor funded from the loan's
technical assistance component. Project management staff at the project
sites would be assisted by consulting engineers whose qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Bank (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
55.       PPA effectively operates 94 national ports and management is
generally satisfactory, but there remains a need to strengthen its develop-
ment project planning and execution capabilities, and improve management
information systems available to management to assist in both day-to-day
control and corporate planning. Organizational changes are required to
consolidate and interlink PPA's recently established project planning and
supervision units. PPA plans to consult with the Bank prior to implementing
any major changes in its organizational structure (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.04). The project includes the cost of a civil engineering adviser
for the duration of project construction, training courses abroad for MPW and
PPA port engineers and staff training and equipment for the establishment of
a PPA hydrographic division. Also included is a study of PPA's management
information system by PPA staff assisted by an economist with relevant
experience, and a management accountant. The study will ensure the
determination of reliable productivity indices and operational targets by
PPA and the Bank by December 31, 1981.



- 16 -
56.       For effective implementation of the proposed project, the Government
has agreed to: ensure that wrecks in the proposed project access channel at
Cebu are removed (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.09(a)); acquire rights-of-
way and construct port access roads at Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.08); and relocate a fishing vessel anchorage
at Zamboanga by June 30, 1981 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.09(b)). PPA
has agreed to conduct siltation observations and review maintenance dredging
requirements at Cebu by December 31, 1982 (draft Project Agreement, Section
3.05).
57.       At the site of the Cagayan de Oro port there are about 200 squatters
who will be relocated by the city government, and arrangements have already
been made for this. Relocation costs, estimated at about $40,000, would be
borne by the relevant government agencies. Assurances were obtained that the
people at the project site at Cagayan de Oro would be relocated in accordance
with arrangements agreed with the Bank by June 30, 1981 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total project cost is estimated at $165 million (including local
duties and taxes of $18.1 million). The foreign exchange component would be
$68 million, of which $11.4 million is for foreign costs of cargo handling
equipment, likely to be financed by other foreign sources. The proposed loan
of $67 million would -over: about 48% of total civil works costs, net of
duties and taxes; equipment and materials for civil works amounting to $1.5
million; and engineering and technical assistance and training totalling $10.3
million. The loan would include $10.4 million in local costs. The justifica-
tion for local cost financing is set out in para. 22 of this report. The
Philippine Estates Authority has granted PPA a loan of $5.6 million for land
purchase at Cebu. Apart from the foreign exchange cost of cargo handling
equipment for which the Government is seeking funds totalling $11.4 million,
and part of the access road costs, about $2.7 million, which would be met by
the Government, PPA would provide the remainder of the project cost, $78.3
million equivalent. The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to
PPA, on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, under a subsidiary
loan agreement, the signing of which would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). PPA would bear all foreign
exchange risks.
59.       Cost estimates for civil works are based on final designs and unit
prices for ongoing similar works in the Philippines; those for mechanical
equipment are based on recent purchases. Estimates are in late 1979 prices,
and include price escalation and physical contingencies over the project
period. Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for civil works
items for all ports. Price contingencies are included for all procurement
items; assumed price increases for civil works are: for local costs, 16%
for 1980, 10% for 1981, 7% for 1982 and thereafter; for foreign exchange
costs, 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983 and
thereafter. Technical assistance is expected to involve 166 man-months of



- 17 -
expatriate and 112 man-months of local expertise; man-month costs, inclusive
of air fares and subsistence, are estimated at $9,150 and $3,500, respec-
tively.
60.       PPA has already appointed consultants for detailed engineering,
financed under Loan 1048-PH (Shipping), which was begun in October 1979 and is
scheduled for completion in June 1980. It is recommended that final
engineering expenditures incurred after April 1, 1980, estimated at $850,000,
be retroactively financed under the proposed Bank loan (Schedule 1, para. 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       The project civil works to be financed by the Bank loan will be
executed under civil engineering contracts, to be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
62.       Disbursements would be made against normal documentation on the
following basis: (a) 48% of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials for
civil works; and (c) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and
training.
Cargo Handling
63.       Loan 939-PH (Second Ports Project) provides that the number of cargo
handling (arrastre) companies at each project port be reduced to not more than
two. This measure was designed to avoid duplication of plant and equipment
and diseconomies in operation and in the use of port labor. Prior to the
creation of PPA, the Bureau of Customs reduced arrastre companies at Cagayan
de Oro and General Santos to one by encouraging the amalgamation of the
numerous operators. PPA eventually extended this policy to other ports, but
the action was recently challenged by the arrastre companies and the dispute
was referred to a special committee set up by the Minister of Public Works.
An arrastre company in Cebu subsequently filed a court suit claiming that PPA
has no power to determine the number of arrastre firms operating in ports.
Pending a decision by the court, the Ministerial Committee has postponed
consideration of the dispute.
64.       There is clear evidence of operational improvements following the
reduction in the number of arrastre firms. At break-bulk berths, more than
one arrastre firm could effectively be utilized, the exact number to be
determined by the number and nature of berths at the port. However, the Bank
considers that a port container complex such as proposed for Cebu, should be
operated by only one arrastre firm in view of the precise control over
container movements and related cargo documentation needed for efficient
operation, and the need for the most economic use of expensive mechanical
handling equipment. This conforms with the Government's and PPA's policy
embodied in a recent Presidential Decree governing the operation of the Manila



- 18 -
International Container Complex. The Government has agreed that the number
of arrastre firms allowed to operate at the project ports be determined by
PPA in consultation with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.10).
PPA's Financial Position
65.       Although operational for only three years, PPA has already accumu-
lated cash resources totalling about $53 million from its operations.
Relatively little investment in port development was made by PPA during this
short consolidation period, nor was much maintenance work accomplished
(especially dredging, some three years in arrears). Capital improvements are
urgently needed at Manila, at the four project ports, and at numerous
smaller ports. Consequently, during the period 1980-84, PPA is expected to
expend $447 million in implementing part of its 1980-86 Investment Plan. To
help meet this cost, loans totalling $36 million have already been
negotiated with the ADB and the Federal Republic of Germany for container
berths at Manila. Further loans, totalling $67 million are expected to be
received from the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan for the purchase of
dredgers and cargo handling equipment, and a loan of nearly $6 million has
been obtained from the Philippine Estate Authority for land in Cebu. With
this Third Ports Project loan of $67 million, and Government equity
contribution to PPA of about $92 million, it is expected that PPA would be
able to carry out the Investment Plan and maintain cash in hand of about $13
million, sufficient to meet monthly recurrent expenses and payments due to
project contractors. The Government's equity contribution would be in
respect of dredging backlog costs ($22 million); and minor national port
improvements ($70 million).
66.       This scenario assumes that PPA will provide $179 million (40%) of
the Investment Plan from net income from port operations.   To do so would
require port tariff increases of about 45% in 1981 and an additional 25% in
1984. However, higher increases at modernized ports are envisaged (e.g. 50%
and 35%) and lower increases at partially and nonmodernized ports.
67.       PPA has agreed to adjust tariffs, in consultation with the Bank, no
later than January 1, 1981. On the basis of forecast traffic and reasonable
assumptions regarding operating costs (including the effect of inflation)
and tariff increases stated above, it has been agreed that PPA should earn a
rate of return on net fixed assets in use of not less than 5% in 1981, 1982
and 1983, and not less than 7% in 1984 and thereafter. Assurances were also
obtained that the first revaluation of PPA's net fixed assets would take
place in 1984, with subsequent revaluations at least every five years
thereafter (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Similar
requirements are covenanted in a Loan Agreement concluded between PPA and
ADB in December 1979.
68.       Most existing tariff levels were inherited by PPA in 1974 and have
remained unchanged, with the exception of charges made by arrastre companies
for cargo handling services, which were increased by 25% in June 1979 with



- 19 -
PPA's approval. Tariffs are not cost based and are very low compared to
other ports in Southeast Asia.  Substantial upward revisions are required
to enable PPA to generate an adequate level of cash to meet a reasonable
portion of future port development expenditures. PPA staff were trained in
tariff-setting techniques by consultants financed under Loan 939-PH (Second
Ports Project) and are capable of recalculating new tariffs. They will be
assisted by UNCTAD experts in establishing new tariffs for the international
container complex in Manila.
69.       PPA's level of operating costs is reasonable.  Staffing is not
excessive; in fact Government agencies are now required to hold costs at as
low a level as possible without unduly impairing efficiency. Current staffing
levels are now being reviewed by a team comprising experts from the
Presidential Reorganization Committee, the Ministry of Public Works and a
local firm of management consultants.
70.       In order for PPA to achieve its financial objectives and ensure the
success of its financing plan, understandings were reached that PPA would:
(a) consult with the Bank prior to increasing the estimated cost of the
Investment Plan by more than 10% in any financial year (draft Project
Agreement, Section 4.03(a); (b) consult with the Bank prior to entering into
an agreement for the purchase of craft or equipment with a value exceeding
P 50 million (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (b)); and (c) not incur
new debt if net revenue falls below 1.75 times the maximum debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal year (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.05).
71.       The financial projections' sensitivity to risks during 1981-84 was
examined, indicating that a 10% overall increase in the proposed project cost,
a 10% p.a. increase in PPA operating expenses, and a 10% p.a. decrease in
revenue due to lower-than-forecast traffic could, if occurring simultaneously,
be offset by measures involving an additional 10% tariff increase in 1981, an
18% reduction in capital expenditure for low priority capital projects and an
18% increase in government grants, all of which are considered feasible.
Alternatively, if PPA borrowed the entire cash deficit arising from
sensitivity assumptions, PPA's debt/equity ratio would only rise to a maximum
of 34/66 (in 1983) which is satisfactory. PPA does not levy any fees on
passengers embarked or disembarked.  A charge of E 2 per head (27() would
realize P 30 million annually on the basis of currently under-reported
ships' manifests, equivalent to one-third of the cash deficit arising from
sensitivity assumptions.
Environmental Impact
72.       None of the proposed works would affect the existing ecology of the
ports; dredged materials would be disposed of at approved locations. Project
ports do not handle or transfer crude oil or petroleum products, which are
handled by oil companies at their specialized private installations located
well away from the public ports.



- 20 -
Project Beneficiaries
73.       The project's most direct beneficiaries would be inter-island ship
operators who have long suffered from inadequate port facilities with
resultant slow turnaround time and high port costs, which normally amount to
30% of ship operating costs. Increased berth throughput of cargo per meter of
quay reduces port costs per ton and permits more round voyages per ship per
year, and therefore fewer ships per route. The project would also encourage
further investment in container vessels with resultant lower per-ton shipping
costs. Considering the high level of competition among ship operators, a
large portion of reduced operating costs is expected to be passed on to
shippers in the form of lower tariffs or rebates, most of which would be
passed on to the ultimate consumers.
Economic Benefits
74.       Traffic handled annually at all Philippine ports is expected to grow
from 67 million tons in 1978 to 110 million tons by 1986 and to nearly 140
million tons by 1990. PPA currently handles about 23 million tons (31%) of
present traffic of which 4.6 million tons (20%) passes through the project
ports. By 1990, traffic growth will require the project ports to handle 9
million tons annually. The project ports are already experiencing congest-
ion which, with the exception of Cebu, cannot be alleviated by modest
improvements to existing facilities. Widening of narrow cargo working areas
is not possible due to the encroachment of city development. The design
limitations of many wharves, which restrict alongside dredging to five
meters, prevent their improvement to accommodate larger vessels which are
expected to increase in number.
75.       The expansion of existing facilities at the four ports will avoid
either more costly diversion of cargo to other ports or more costly and less
efficient lighterage operations. There will be savings to the economy from
reduced cargo losses due to damage and pilferage, lower cargo handling costs,
and reduced ship waiting and turnaround time. The resultant estimated
economic rates of return are: at Cagayan de Oro, 29%; at Cebu, 21%; at
Iloilo, 45%; and at Zamboanga, 25%. The combined rate of return for the
project is estimated at 30%.
Risks
76.       The principal project risks are that port traffic projections will
be lower than anticipated and that project cost overruns may occur. Assuming
traffic projections to be 15% lower, and cost overruns 15% higher, the
combined rate of return for the project would be 24%, with rates for project
components ranging between 13% and 36%. Risks associated with the relocation
of people occupying the proposed project site at Cagayan de Oro have been
minimized by the city government's advanced arrangements for relocation to an
available alternative site. In spite of delays experienced in previous



- 21 -
BPW-implemented projects, implementation problems are not expected to be
serious for this project as appropriate administrative arrangements have
been made tnder the project to provide for adequate leadership in MPW and
PPA for the execution of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PPA, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following events of suspension have been added: (a) PPA's
failure to perform any obligation under the Project Agreement; (b) an
extraordinary situation or any change to Presidential Decree No. 857
governing PPA, which would materially and adversely affect PPA's ability to
carry out the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and (c) the
Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, taking any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of PPA, or the suspension of its
operations.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1980



- 22 -                                          ANNEX I
OJLA 3        .                                  Page  1  of  5
PILINE S - WC"  IM ICATD DATA 5
LAUD MUl (TSOUMS SQ. Q-I=                                                     - MOST S       g3~n)
TOTAL            300.0                                                   Sao          SWN      m ERl IUCan
AGIUCLTURAL       86.7                                    T UCEU!      CtGAmC    NcOi            7mCOi
1960  /     1970 AUTZnTE A           UGIm LE   082P ?         Gwto   L
GMl? PE  CAITA (USSI                  140.0       230.0     510.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENnGy COiSTiICO  PE, CAPITA
(KUIOGES O0  COAL EQJIVALXT)       147.0        301.0     329.0           371.1      262.1        730.7
POPUlATION LO VI    STaiSTics
POPULATION, Kan-TEAR (NDUOSS)        27.4        36.9      44.5
UtUIM   PO?UUXIOU (PERCUT     TOTAL) 30.1        31.6      34.0            27.4        24.6        49.0
POPULATIOW PEJETIONS
POPUATION i E Y     2000 (MIIOCS)                        76.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (NIL0LS)                          128.0
TE  STATIoSAY POpuLARIon is xzcnD                      2075
POPULTION DEXSITY
PER sq. EN.                       91.0        123.0     146.0           154.8       45.3         44.6
PE SQ. DK. ACRICULTUJAL LA       360.0        472.0     513.0           566.7       149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUtE (PERCENT)
0-14 n5S.                         44.7         45.5      46.0            41.3       45.2         41.3
15-64 YES.                         52.3        53.6       51.0            54.9       51.9         55.3
65 YlS. AMD ASOVE                   3.0          2.9       3.0             3.3        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWEM RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                              2.7          3.0       2.7             2.4         2.7         2.4
Vll                                4.0          3.8       3.5             4.3        4.3          4.5
CRiUDE SIX  RATE (PU TDSUSAD)       45.0         43.0      35.0            30.2        39.4        31.1
CRUDE ORUTR RATE (PU TWUSAND)        LS.0        11.0       9.0             6.3        11.7         9.2
GCOSS REPROODCTION RAZ               3.5Lf        3.3       2.4             2.1        2.7          2.2
.AYTIS PLAMUING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROOSLEDS)        ..       191.7     643.0
USEIS (PERCENT 0f HARRID Z) *K)      -          2.0      22.0            34.1       13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEi CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.1        101.0     111.0           106.2       99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAlORIES (PERCENT Of
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0        86.0       87.0           104.1       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (CRAKS PER DAY)          44.0         45.0      50.0            57.4       54.3         64.4
Of WHIC  ANIMIAL AND PULSE      19.0k        22.0      19.2            16.9        17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      16.0        10.0       7.0             4.8        11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EPECTANCY AT SIXTH (TELAS)    51.0          57.0      60.0            61.1       54.7         60.2
WNFANT KCRTALITY RATE (PER
ThOUSAND)                           9a.0         80.0      65.0            46.6       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT O0
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       39.0            21.9        34.4        60.8
URBAN                               ..          ..       51.0            46.2       57.9         75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       33.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
-OTAL                               ..                   56.0            28.4       40.8         46.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       76.0            65.0       71.3         46.0
RURAL                               *^           *-      44.0            14.7       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..          ..    3150.0           3790.5     6799.4       2262.4
POPL'LATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..       3840.0    4990.0          1107.4     1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER SOSPITAL BED
MOTAL                           1180.0        850.0     880.0           613.3      726.5        453.4
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           203.6      272.7        253.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..          1110.3     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED            ..          ..        ..            Z3.9        27.5        22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.8          5.9        ..             5.2        5.4          5.3
UREAN                               ..          6.2        ..              ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                               *-          5.8         .              ..        5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
rDTAL                               ..          2.3        ..              ..         ..          1.9
URBAN                                .          2. 1       ..              ..         ..          1.6
RIJRAL                               .          2.4        .                .         ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
DF DWELLINGS)
rOTAL                              6.5         22.9/h    31.0                       28.1         50.0
URBAN                                ..        62.S3       ..              ..        .5.1        71.7
RURAL                                .          5.8/j    10.0                        9.9         17.3



-23-                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABUL 3A
PEIL7PPlNU - SOCAL IN DICATORS DATA SUHT
R ERIJcP  GROUPS (ADJUSTED A8EiES
rPrUA"M                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAN#       SAME     NMX  HIQIfl
NDST *CII      G0UGPEIC   DNCON          7Zcme
1960 /b    1970 Lb ESTIAE /b        RWION Le   GROP /d    GOUP /j
EDUCATION
JIWh SUOLOIEIT PATI0S
PEDIT:    TOTAL                  95.0       114.0    105.0             97.9       82.7       102.5
MA^LE               98.0       115.0    102.0             98.7       87.3       108.6
FILC                93.0       113.0    10°.0             97.4       75.8        97.1
S00C IT:  TOTAL                  26.0        50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4       33.5
MALE                28.0        59.0      65.0            46.7       33.0        38.4
rDtAL               25.0        42.0      47.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATI0O1L ENOIL. (Z 0 SEONDATY)  15.0         6.0        ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-T-ACS RATIO
rDiLY                            36.0        29.0      29.0            32.5      34.1        35.8
.OOIDART                         27.0        33.0      31.0            25.8       23.4       22.9
ADULT LMITACY RATS (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0       64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGRI CARS PER TSOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         8.0       8.9             6.1        9.3       13.5
ADIO UClIVERS PU THOUSAND
POPULATION                       22.0        39.0      44.0            84.4      76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.4        10.0      17.0            22.4      13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GCENRAL
INTEREST`) CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                17.0        14.0      18.0            24.2       18.3       40.0
CINUA ANNUAL ATTENDANC  PP1 CAPITA  0.6          ..       7.6             3.6  -    2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
-DE Aiat FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 34.4        33.1      35.3            36.7      29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            61.0        55.0      50.9            54.6      62.7        43.5
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)               15.2        15.8      14.8            16.3      11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              39.8        36.6      35.3            40.7      37.1        33.5
MALE                               52.1        48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8       48.0
FEnALE                             27.4        24.4      23.3            31.0      20.4        11.8
ECONQIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1       1.1         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PIVATE INCOME
RECCEIVD SY
NIGEEST s PERCENT or HOUSEHOLDS   28.8         ..        ..            14.9       15.2       20.8
HIGEST 20 PERCENT OF R0USEEOLDS  56.2       53.9      53.3            46.8      48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    4.2        3.7       5.5             6.2       6.3         3.9
LOWiST 40 PERCENT oF sOUSEIOLDS   11.9       11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3       12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVEIT INCOME
UVEL (USt PER CAPITA)
URAN                               ..          ..    250.0            193.1     241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    190.0            128.7     136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERSY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    132.0            136.8     179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      87.0           96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      39.0           32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0            52.5      37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   East Asia & Pacific;  /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita. 1976);  te  Intermediate Middle Income
k5551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /f  1950-55;  Z.  Av. 1960-62;  /h  1967. households.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24--AeNNEX I
________C___C_AL__I____R                                                                     Page   3   of   5
Note.:  Althastgh th.'oo tre                          S-.tanoae.gnrlly J,udgd  lt. _et atolaioadoi   c   tool   loI   ce   htte   a   n   eitr
tionally comprable heceod  uf the  .00  1 nt-9,rdi,n   _elcos, d cocet. _5.  oy iljffnr_t_o.ot.... t. coiZot-tog the data. Th. dat  a.               uoehl.
_afo.i to de-icb. ore.o   ahbt,idct   rao                           he-aterie.  -stalO    J e    Wrf ...Te .onc.  .toton   t-ole
Th.   j994-7d        9yfle   orec  idctor a-  ppoelatlo--il0ted g-ntrie  see., -rotlmtn   00 oh                       oe   se.    the  .ttiateed to. mat poplated
ihepcal  tis.eas,Lons Dietrtht.to    n   eet   ootrOOtygOp   npp.aitehai  t-ontto  ea.-  citht.t ecoi.toe   of the eotre- vahe  end
temt poplted .-tnay.  3iane th   ctrg  o   coti.  m. h   odotre deend. o-  -rA.iatlty of data nd id not aaiom ontc   nt he neeri.ed
ha r.ltAu   oag,o  cit. dho-tor to another.  Thee. ante,.. atemutly useful a   ercm,~                                 eetd,juihaopr                      h    aaeo   n
IAE ARIA (theuAbd sIth..)                                                                    Ios.      foeaihpeipret of  npoat i d-(tota   Ache. ad r-ral
-Sf     Total eurf-c  ae  oytitgI land ure  and  -Iasnuotere.LNm.  fpnlettl    ot  nod _                                           atal  ee'!g.d    ecrtaip.la
0? p5esnttly for  riop., pastur., meAnt an   ltohon gard0e or- t.t   oletlo ad di.yeel   itt!  r? nitLct treciOt, or h-n  atrt,
Lie  taLon                                                                                nod  bat    yatrO      etrno        yet-  or the  -s  or pit prince  and  -unl-r
ON? l CAPIt   tn) o?pn capita n time    tor-itw                          prIce                                      W      Ftlltoa.Plati- dirindd by  Ambr of practiciag Phyeiohen
onvre io  cethod an Nor=   DeNA At]..  (19T6-78 baste);                                  .      C   nheal at uni~ity  107  rl.
1960, 1970, and 19,78 data.                                                                MEwLau         ne                  ftyin  Pre ] e tlan- di,ided by natr of pimtibin   cain
ZMT CONO~OM  m   A)I7J.- sA.-Ia -ceumtico of coerialan1            ?                  n  femlegaate  meets, pr-tical meeee  end e.e. see
thermatl electricity) in kOle..., of coal eqalvest pr c-pita;  -00Ad  -trL) divided bytei   epetie                                            -~so  hepitaL bm.- nelaheI
1970, and 1976 d.C..                                                                         PaUic end private  enral end epmiafoed h..tPlt.1 ed rshchilt.t(on O.tr.-
Hepoa . ar  ealinse-ats pee       aetiy etef fed by at least cm, opsian.
?OJAIKAMVTL  iiais                                                                             Z.tbhliab.tct   pro.'ideag prlonipalc  o.-tdial cen   tem   im1ged. co-al
Tot"  mw"tl.eiflpoee                A. Wof ouly 1; 196, 1970, ead                    hoepitel., haoe,Imod. health and sd adte.-  tot persetip  eiffd
1977  .t..                                                                                hy a phbyeicte  thot by a ecdioa  asi.tant, nare,  ideife,  Ut.)  ihia  offer
Urbhan Pop tA     ith--(crnt o'f .totl) - batto of  t-hbn to total YPoleltio.;               io-patient acc bdathoa  -t Prchdn a lIened rins  of -dioal fwnilitia.s
differen    efothe    f crac   o    ..  ufteot  -opa-bility of data                     Aomloahp... ~  .Pt itcp 5d - Total cob.r of adeeeioa. to or disahargcs frae
o-mn  o-otrie.; I               -, 90,ad 1975 hata.                                       h..PYtaladlod.dedFh.*  cber cf heda.
~P4ulypi    y, ~ Cretpop-tialho   pr.cletioee a-  Ased o                              tHsJSiE
L1975  .     Wpop tlain. by ate en   -oad thai? srtality and fertility                Aers., dieo   mehl   proe                  h.oAl(-ttl   re.edma
rae.  lrJethn parntera for  -ttai.ty ratee  -cmric of thr..                             & oneootooit   fadop  fidr,ul  aaaa.lea  qc,eead
lLne    u ig lfe  cnotanYr at thrth  l,ra iagnth cootrye.                      their  -aal.'  0 hoarder or icdser  ay or  W  not he Lablodsd                the
p.r -apita ic-n  Io-i, and fl life ecypctanc   othhii..g.t.bohold for etatletical nsPoese-
77.5 yar..  The Painters  or.  f-rtlity rate ale  ha.three level.                     Atsas   ae   f                                                        Aeen,~   om-tta.ubnadrrl - M.g nembe
-_e.ln  de-riho  ho f-rtiUty a-ordita tc icos level and pao                             of P,rcespat  oeo              ra,  n       ia   cuidoit' otoaa  deelli.te,
fenily ol1esdg performam. tEch   -tny in then aeeled oae of thee                      .. repeotioly.   -eelig      ,scdot   ne-parant et-ot-re  ad  -eacpted Porte.
otin o.inatioe   of nortaLity and ferttlity treade fot proJe-tico                     A-ose  to ta_t-Orot  (cpment of del               -ttal,  -rban  end to-L         Con-
't:9oqar. yp4994ot-  Ic a etatic.teypulto   then  ii no v-oath                            ttl   ran   n   ua  dtloerepoi7
tli.. the hirth rate I. equ,l to the heath rate, and "a   the ate                                            -       -U g
otetaero     ma. ine oetant. Thie i. acee-d caip nft.r fertility   Eat.             tiATIpti
deolio  to the replcemet level of unit oet  Vrerduotiontane., ehe                     Adjuo.te  tarol-*t Patio.
eah generatIon of ome  tylacee  J:t.lf  -catly.  Te etatih..a.y poPs.-                  Prisr  school - toa   saead femle. rect.tal, -Ls end feale enrol-
J.latio  .:Iaeos tiaatd oc the boae of the proJeted oh-reterieti-                         set of all  teo  th   rmr   ee sp-rotate of repeti-e P---a"
of the poultonI  the year 2000, to  tOct-ate of  eolice of fertility                       'orho-g  pp.Uattone; onreelly Lo-iadn  childre   atd 6-U. y-a  hot
rate to rpls-et le-el.                                                            -       o.(oated for different Iengthe of prim-? odhation; rot csntrieeetth
dear etti22sc   -ooU.ti.. is r-ahs  - The y-a  seen ettoaypoPulatIon                                                                .-i'taleootonnrlat  a   o d 100 petoet niec  en   popile
siloela ie  rechd.n-nibn   racc   h  orfiole) achool  C
Fopulation                                                                                              ..Zit-Iooda :eooo     tota,mlan  fsl     Colpted  ei.oss --nnay
Pet no. Am. - Mid-yea  popa.iatl    per oc "r Ilote  (100 htectrc) of                       education require   t    o    roa  Yeeofnppro-d primar y i-atrooti-o
Pe, so. kno. naritou.i   l land - Contet'naoc  for  wgicolt-rl land                         u-ua1y  f 12 to i7 yea   of ate; t-orepcnd.ne  ou.    ar   ..nerLlly
only.                                                                                     50010d..
Poplaio    etroooe  peoetl- C>  or   hIcyea.)  crnngat                            Pocathoca  -arlln-t (coe   f  nodr) - otionl tn.tltotic   pe-lde
(15-04 yer)   o   ein    Sya.  oi-r   spreutsofnoye                                          e ta    outrial, or other program  dhibh opr.tm  ond.pondetlOra
popn"iatos; 1960, I97, tad 1977 data.                                                       Peyntn. of ne- dr   utttoo
Ponllalio  ircth Rtat   getn - total - AnnuL A-oth rates of tctal mId-                       P-1-t-eh-r ratio  - -ri-ry   an  ennondar  - Total ntdente  -nrn.id in
ye-r ponoltie   frl3-t1907,no1970-77.                                                        prisery and es-cadar- evl    dt-dd by nunere of teah-r  ho th  root-
Ponnatl2l liah Oat41" ost)     t0 - -Anua gc-sth rate. of .rhn                                 opoding let-sI.
popu"atinee1o  1906,1995 t,  n  1970-7.                                                   Adult litera   ra.rton)-ltrate adilt. (able to rea  and -oit.)n
Cr,                                                         rt-def~-                               t         : W iprthRte (pr thuuead( -nnllice. birti. pe  hcan  o.i-ayteoaeo 1oa  ad.t population  gd 15 Year  ed over.
yer.oulton  199, 1979, and 1977 data,
Ct-ode heath inEq (cot thoosandY9;- cosia death. P., thonoad or n.-yea                  chspupeltr
PouaIn   90 0,   ,  n   97dt.PsenrCar  (or thousad popalti.b)   Paenrore oric ctras
Pr ..  ,roduoti.. Rtat   A-Ot-eat  tanberof dcctr      o          iLl bear               ntig iee than eight prh.  000luds                     .....cO    h.a-e.. ad eifLtar
it her oor-al rproduct,-e p-riod if 0h5 vcnttcapr.-et ege-                      -         ortle..
opvitofrtilty rntee;  -onlly ric-yea  aontgee  uling i. 1990.                      Redho deceit-e, cpo- thbsadponna                 A- 011 tpe  of            'Ieio   r radi,
i970  and 1975.                                                                           itn.uet   sea    ult  Per thooan  of poulation; ...ludeenoise
elit-tianln  - Accpt-r, A-.uL (th-cnnd:I-  coe   -.0ror                                      me crn,  o trr   and in ye-   :Oe  r ttutrec  Of radio soOn n5 in
,oonpors ofbirth-ontroI den-s-  _cd_  _upoo-  of"ntiIi_,e;y fc   date 1.totZe-c  yr.  .Yp tot he                                         ~ oopahle eiOc  -oo   -otnire
pla_ning protea.                                                                          ehoUnhrd Itos-tog.
Fnnhlo Pliach     - U..er. (-.ovt or ar-,id  Poet         - Peetat  of oarrid                              rrdoicr    t  ttmo ani,oLatio(-  Tiprtie   for braontt   eor
coao   hild-hearic   ate g 15-44eaentoetr-onri0-i-eotopethsadpulin;eldetlOnedO reereit-ontrie
to al  maried   -s  in  'L.; age grop.                                                    ao it yea  cho  r-gv-tratl-n of iTV set.  -a   teffect.
Ceoeparer   per tousand Pjulatio)   S- icathe n-crat  tir...latlon
FOOD 0N0 NM rOTIOW                                                                              fdiygtriptretteppr,dfndn    :tldiodhl pbhltoatioc
Tode  of Fond  od..tio  pt-j CIot   l         1O-1(0.O2   - Icod- of per -,itt              de-t-d prinaily to  -r,crlig ge..nrel oe. t  speid.e   to te b dalily'
annoal  roduoton of al  foo  oop ndtte.  -r1toio   ooldee see  -o                   P1 it oc-em      I tene  ft-or tisiaeen
feed_adt  nouo rya  ta_ie.  C..ioo.                      cvrprisnry godo                Clos-  Ao-o    tit-dnno- per CnOit. oe Yea   - na-ed on the tshero Cf tit-Aete
(en.cofft- nd te  areeolded)_ onorenatr productio or each -outry                                            -1dpotts..  l-m~ -                             d-bl
in based ontioa  ac-L       aeProduce  prios oet0hts.
P.e -opito soclt- of calories  corIso  of  roornt,    oputed floe                     LABPO  FOOdC
erZy eqoit.-act pf ne  food sopploe       n,nll  to o-octry ye, capita              Total lacr For-c   tunh    Fotoncelly   ctio:, Aeen,iouigaoe
prday.  Ait-lahic suppli-e c-prise donett  prtd-ctto, ipcrte i..e                     f-se sod  -neployed b-t rtodio  hoeaie   suets,ec  Defi ttt-.e
eoptte  no  conge is tol   Ne  coOloenecoiod  anma  fed,  eed,         t_iOOOtttO    u-s opt   f coytal.- t...f.t Iof,
intOn cer  -ei-ad by Fop bnard 00Ptwsiotaoe   for normal                              Ag-clb.-,ir-u;              ao  for-s - o -  er-Ing, f....etry,  mating n_d
oticity and helh  ..esidernO         -ig   ootlteepera.t-r, body  -ihta,               fOo-tog na p-etoe ge of tota  Iao  fre
age and ..n dierihtb.ioe ofP-pinto nd  Lloniog 1i per-not fcr                         I.doenty  o-oet) - 1.0c  for-st  10,cotrtin  eaefacturg  -Jd
ornte at hb...ehoLd let-s.                                                              ettroiy,oas  aod gas aa p.roentat  of tota  labot Fore.
Per -nita eocply of P-t.Ouego va . cr Op( - rrteiocpet--tof yet                         FactOi-ti-nio   Rate  cro)-ttl               sac   eae-Priiaino
-apht. -t supl  o   on  pr dy. NSt cppiy of Tood Is  sicna                              aot(iot- t-te. areopotds as total, sale, no  female labr i-o   - per-
aoo.  Meqirnnte for .1I t-ontri.. ta -.iiehe  At- USDA p-cihr for Ia   c.g-eof tota, aaL. -A f-mle Ppopslti.e of all ate. e-pectively
,inmi ;a7cane  ralll gra-e of total P-otet  pee day and 20 gins of                  15i   97C, ad 1975 data.  Th... ar  tLa partioipati- rate. refloting
acelad tne   roec   f,hioh II v-as  should he anisi prottai.                        ag-       trutr  of the population, end lo.g tim  treed.  A fee etimaten
Th..e stnarsae  oe  the ton of 75 grm-o   tota  protei   n                               r  freotonlete
3 gram   of -niaa  prctct oi       oAvrg  for the  -ord, pop ..ed hy PA0              B-oom.   -eednY patho  -  Rtato   f  pntnOaio. undr 15  nd 65 ad over to
,b the Third World Food Sur-y.                                                          tnahcfrein ate ersp of  l6A  Yea..
Pert-attnprceiosuply  ronaoiai  copales - Protein eupply of food
Child (.A.. I-n) Hor-aity Ont   p           - tooad  - An-a  d-ahi  per ttouead           Percentegt f PointlAnoSb (o-              non    n  koed) - 0e-ia.d by rioheet
in age grvop 1-4 pen'  topld,es  it this M age  rp; f or ect deni-                        5prao   lbe   0peet  poret  0percc, and D-ret toO perose
Lif Oe-tnY at Bi rthrei                Ocrdtotroyasoflettetd Ahylo-)                                             n-ertriomlclPoprdpt       ra   n   ua 
infart WortZlity' Pate  porthooeacd   -       oi..eth, of infat, coder one-oriti-naly edooat  dIet plo ..e....tial ton-fond requti_eta    to t
Yerof ate Per tho..eand lire bihi-e..                                                       fford.bln.
A-ocee to lafe nat-  "Pron  of --l.iti-o   - total   -ra   ndnaa-                          EstImate  ReaiePvrc  on."kOtne   nia      s-a   n   ua
ttnnhr of  eopin tota   Orha, an   u-l   ihneoat ctsnt                              drlrl-`repovert;y Icnslev  he m-thi.R                       . far g  pe  cpit
cafe nater -opply (unlodee treted eafac  sater or  otr-ted hot                            porecol incoe  of the =natry. grOan 1-1e i, derl-d fro   thts rural leve
unontemict.d enter ..oh aa that from protcted harehois, .pringe,                          nth adjuitmet for higher 00.t of i1oin   L. arha  anne.
and  -aitary enils) A. pe-vetgte  of their -ept-  as pcpulatce   in                     tatiated Poplation  B.1c-                                L'nue  ottyIcs Ini(c e) -_g -t? 
an ubantare  a publir f-otado or etandpet 1ocated ect  -Lnthanntl-  eve  of popWlnc    aranad rua)otoae h.Mnepe
20  et-cre Iro   ahb-.. ea  he onnoidord ae b.iog sithin ' "esoanle
aceeo ita   os. -   In-~    thrl aea   ren tnhe   cr. nool  ipi
that the- honcf   smbt   f h               e-h ont  a    oeodatooio and Oocil Dana Dit-tlon
dieproportl... t  part of the dsy In fetching the family-. nater nedsIcad-h    nA.lyei. and PseJetto-  Departmn
Aa.sst 197



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                           Page 4 of,5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average           1979
Actual                     Est.             Proiected                      erowth rates (%)         share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978        1979      1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of CDP
National Accounts millions
of US$ at 1915 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                            12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29,392             6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment         168        0    -456    -613       -70       -70      -387       -465      -262        -         -         -          -
GDY                            13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129             6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Inports - constant prices       3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489        5,865    6,068       6,484     8,271        8.8       5.2      6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices       3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592        4,425    4,852       5,362     8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6       22.0
Exports - adjusted for terns
of trade           3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359        4,355    4,464       4,897      7,760       5.4       1.2      11.6       21.1
Resource gap                      115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129      1,510    1,604       1,586        511       -         -         -          7.5
Consumption                    10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861    15,646   16,393    17,262    21,421             5.2       8.8       5.5       77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)       2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963        5,822    6,176      6,552      8,524       12.2       1.8      6.6        29.0
National savings                3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743        4,718    4,948       5,360     8,410        7.9       2.1      11.2       23.5
Doaestic savings                2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833        4,537    4,807       5,227     7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
USS at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                     3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385        5,417    5,688       5,972     7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry La                     4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690        7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061        8.6       6.2       8.0       35.1
Services                        4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853        7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072        6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index               47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2        117.6    123.2       131.6     180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9        -
Inport price index               44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5        119.5    133.9       144.1     186.4       15.1      13.2      6.8         -
Terns of trade index            105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9         98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7      -1.7      -1.6       1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR  b                           4.5      3.4     3.4      3.6      3.6       4.4       4.0        3.9       3.3
Import elasticity                0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32         1.13      1.12       1.12      2.08
Average savings rate             19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3         23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Inports/GDP                      25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0         29.2      28.5       28.7      28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5           29.0      29.0       29.0      29.0
Resource gap/GDP                  0.9      7.1     6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5      7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                     1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)            =(Z  of GDP in current prices) ---                 Labor Force in 1978 /c             Millions    (
Current revenue                  12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                 Agriculture                         7.4     44.4
Tax revenue                       9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                 Industry                            2.7     16.2
Current expenditure              13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                 Services                            5.6     33.0
Current surplus                   0.8      1.8      1.6     1.6      2.7              Unemployed                          1.1      6.4
Capital expenditures              1.9      3.0      3.5     3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force             16.8    100.0
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
Lb The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNFX I
- 26 -Page S of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(U1S$ million)
Actual                            Est.             Prolected
1972      1975       1976       1977       1978      1979     1980      1981       1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              1,455      3,170      3,387      4,161     4,736    5,790    6,620    7,650    15,500
Of which:  exports of goods              1,136      2,294      2,574      3,151     3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700    12,100
Imports of goods and services              1,632      4,412      4,763      5,248     6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods              1,230      3,459      3,633      3,915     4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905    13,100
Transfers (net)                              188        318        269        260        312      340       370       400        600
Current Account Balance                     11       -924    -1.107       -827    -1.274   -1,780   -1,930   -2,180    -1.400
Direct investment (net)                      -22        125        144        216        163      150       150       170        250
MLT loans (net)                              140        359      1,040        662        834    1,000    1,300    1,670        1,180
Official-source loans (net)                 94        117        282        332        333      420       520       710        780
Private-source loans (net)                  46        242        758        330       501       580       780      960        40o
Other capital /a                              56        -81       -238        113        233       47       100       12n        170
Overall Balance /b                          94       -521       -161        164       -54      -583      -380     -200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c         551      1,358      1,640      1,525     1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130        3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total public loans                         422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD                                      29.5      114.0     226.0      317.5      533.0
IDA                                       10.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       28.0
Other multilateral                        43.3      106.0      64.2      207.3      189.2
Governments                              275.5      182.3     391.6      122.3      370.4
of which CPE                             0.0       13.2        5.9       0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                  2.0       52.5      52.0      194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                    61.7     314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                      0.0        0.0     367.2      129.7      219.2
Other IMLT loans                           130.0      283.0      603.6      134.8     914.0
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                28.0       16.4        8.8       14.7      16.8
Average interest (1)                         5.4        7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Average maturity (years)                    17.3       16.7       13.1       15.3      15.9
Medium & Long-Term Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of
period)                                1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                    2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                       -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                      -51.6     -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other MLT debt service                    -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                        -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                          22.1       14.9       15.7       18.0      20.0                        December 31. 1978
Debt service ratio /d                       22.7       15.6       16.4       19.5      20.6                         Amount  Percent
Debt service/COP                             3.8        3.0        2.9        3.7        4.0   External Debt        (1S$ nin)
Public debt service/government                                                                 (disbursed only)
revenue                                   17.0        9.1        9.9      12.0       20.1      IBRD                 546    13.0
Bank Group /e        576    13.8
Terms                                                                                              Other multi-
lateral            277      6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD.             6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4       4.0      Governments         1,039    24.8
Total debt service/total DOD                17.7       16.9       10.5       15.8      13.3      Suppliers             271     6.5
Financial
Dependency Ratios                                                                                    institutions    1.254    29.9
Bonds                771    18.4
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)          30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7      34.3      Total public
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                 12.7        7.7        6.1        5.4       5.4        YILT debt         4,188   10O.O
Net transfer/gross disbursements            41.9       36.2       16.2      18.9       23.2      Other MLT debt    2,651    63.3
Other MLT debt
Exposure                                                                                              (incl. un-
disbursed)       3,293    78.6
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                 4.7        9.8        5.5        7.4       8.3      Total public
Bank Group disb./gross total disb.Le         4.8       10.7        6.2        7.5       8.3        debt (inol.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                           7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3       8.0        undisbursed)    7.563   180.6
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                  7.8        8.6        7.8       7.8        8.4      Total MLT debt
IBRD debt service/total debt service         4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6       6.9        (incl. un-
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv./e 4.4           5.6        6.7        5.6       7.0        disbursed)      10,856   259.2
/a Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b Equals change in net international reserves.
/c Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves", IFS).
/d Includes net direct investment income.
/e  Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 198n



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANE LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY       Borrower                 Purpese                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                              264.0   19.5
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage              14.3                0.3
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                  22.0                0.2
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education 11                                   12.7        0.0 /a
939-PH   1973           "                  Ports                              6.1                0.1
950-PH   1973           "                  Second Highways                   68.0                1.6
984-PH   1974                              Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation        9.5                2.1
998-PH   1974                              D DBP I                           50.0                4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                  61.0                3.3
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                             25.0               12.2
1048-PH   1974           "                  Shipping                          20.0                8.9
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                                30.0                5.3
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                      17.0                6.2
1102-PH   1975                              Rural Development                 25.0               11.9
1120-PH   1975           "                  Small & Medium Industries         30.0                0.7
1154-PH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                   42.0               16.6
1190-PH   1976           "                 DPB II                             75.0                8.4
1224-T-PH 1976                              Education III                     25.0               14.1
1225-PH   1976           "                  Livestock II                      20.5                6.4
1227-PH   1976           "                  Chico Irrigation                  50.0               35.9
1272-T-PH 1976                             Manila Urban                       10.0                5.9
1282-PH   1976                             Manila Urban                       22.0               12.9
1269-PH   1976                              Second Grain Processing           11.5               10.1
1270-PH   1976                              Second Fisheries                  12.0                3.2
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                     95.0               72.4
1367-PH   1977           "                  Jalaur Trrigation                 15.0                9.0
1374-PH   1977                              Fourth Education                  25.0               15.7
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the          Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                 36.5               22.0
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         National Irrg. Sys. Improv.    50.0                   40.1
1415-PH   1977            "                 Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                   17.8
1421-PH   1977           "                  Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.0               13.4
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.         Seventh Power                     58.0               56.0
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.          Smallholder Tree Farming           8.0                7.7
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                 30.0               23.3
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.          2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                   54.3
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural Infrastructure                      28.0        27.5
S.8-PH   1978           "                  Education                          2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                  60.0               39.3
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                   15.0                4.5
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat II                          150.0               98.1
1572-PH   1978           "                  Industrial Investment III         80.0               58.3
1615-PH   1978           "                  Manila Water Supply II            88.0               87.1
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension                 35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979           "                 Magat River Multipurpose           21.0               20.0
1646-PH   1979           "                  Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                   15.8
1647-PH   1979            "                 Second Urban Development          32.0               30.1
1661-PH   1979            "                 Highways IV                      100.0               99.7
1710-PH   1979           "                  Water Supply II                   16.0               16.0
920-PH   1979           "                  Water Supply II                          22.0        22.0
1727-PH   1979           "                  Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                   25.0
923-PH   1979                              Population II                            40.0        40.0
1772-PH/b 1980            "                 Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.0               27.0
1786-PH/b 1980            "                 Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)    38.0                   38.0
1809-PH/b 1980            "                Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.0               71.0
1814-PH/b 1980           "                  Manila Sewerage & Sanitation  63.0                   63.0
1815-PH/b 1980           "                  Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)  12.0                   12.0
Total                                                                 2,181.9  122.2   1,333.3
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                              162.3
Total now outstanding                                                 2,019.6  122.2
Amount sold                                                24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         16.0            8.3      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                               2.011.3  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                     1.243.8   89.5   1,333.3
/a Balance of $28,207.60 to be disbursed in April/May 1980.
/b Not yet effective.



-28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1980
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 6 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0     4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                  -      4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5      -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0      -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5         0.7      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2      -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        -       0.1      0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              34.0    12.3    46.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             43.1     4.4    47.5
Total Undisbursed                              1.8      -       1.8



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Project funds have been fully committed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September 1980 on completion of a warehouse con-
struction project, now about 40% complete. The repayment arrears situation
has improved with arrears of principal and interest amounting to 10% of
the loans outstanding. Half of the arrears are less than 12 months old.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974: Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works. Further delays were caused by a typhoon in
1978 which damaged some of the project area. Completion is now planned for
1980 - a two-year delay in the original schedule. Due to increased costs, a
reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction, the internal rate of
return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the appraisal estimate of
17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 70% of project
works completed. Due to initial delays and recent shortages of fuel and
cement, the project is likely to be completed by June 1982. The total project
area is likely to be reduced by about 20%, mainly due to elimination of areas
subject to deep flooding by the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. The project
cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $44.1 million, with
the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced from 15% at
appraisal to about 10%.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Physical implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
is about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays in contract award and
recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies, construction has slowed
down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation system contract has been
awarded, progress is expected to improve.  The road subproject is about 68%
complete. Disbursements are in line with physical projects, with 50% of the
loan amount allocated for road works disbursed.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well, and the project is
about 70% complete. The water management training is continuing satis-
factorily. A delay in the contract award for improvements to the project
diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge.
The Bank has assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-
oriented collection program which will be further reinforced under the
proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Even though progress has improved
since the contracts were awarded, and work is now proceeding satisfactorily,
the project is about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the investment
climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to the
smaller millers, and this should result in better repaynents. Demand for
subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by prospective
applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has, in
consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on actions
to be taken. Recently, the Bank approved various amendments to broaden the
scope of the project for the loan to become more responsive to current needs
and to speed up disbursements. New proposals have recently been made for the
Grains Losses Study which represent a change in the previously agreed terms of
reference and reflect the change in focus caused by the Philippines currently
achieving a rice surplus situation.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Nine of
the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has taken over eight of
them for completion by force account. With the equipment now on hand, NIA is
capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After two and a half years of project implementation, commitments
and disbursements are roughly one-half of appraisal estimates. The Central
Bank has reassessed the project and as a result new categories of lending
(for medium-size trucks, tree crops and working capital), and a new set of
financial intermedia-ies (private development banks) have been included in
the project. Althouc,h these should accelerate implementation, it is
tentatively estimated that the completion date will be delayed by about 18
months. A better idea of eventual performance will be obtained by late summer
of 1980, when the above changes, which were introduced in late February 1980
will have been effective for six months.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP eased the collateral terms and application
procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government funds has
delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the Abra pine
plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been acquired. A
gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although funding could
continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at a moderate
rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Construction of about
70 km of roads has started and about 50% of the design work on the remaining
680 km has been completed. While construction of the road component is
behind schedule, overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations. Diver-
sion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 was due to
be opened for diversion by end-April 1980. Excavation on the main contract is
ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the batching plant.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A Management Committee has been created under the Chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture, and appropriate subcommittees established.
Nominations have been approved by the President for 12 MOA Regional Directors,
and 24 Assistant Directors. The first staff appointments have been
contracted. Allocation of 500 proposed agricultural centers has been made to
all 75 Provinces and negotiations on site ownership and registration are in
progress. The first year's vehicle allotment is being procured, including
about 1,000 motorcycles with sidecars which will be purchased by extension
workers under the project's newly estabished special vehicle loan fund.
Training is well under way. The first consultancy, to establish project
monitoring and evaluation procedures within BAEx is about to begin. The
appointment of a second consultant should be contracted soon. Pilot areas
have been selected in all 12 regions of the Philippines for introduction of
the "training and visit" extension system, and specialized training of the
district agricultural extension supervisors, who will administer the pilot
areas, has been completed. Four pilot areas are operational, and the
remaining eight will be as soon as the benchmark agroeconomic surveys are
completed in 1980.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Force account construction started in early 1980. There have been
some delays in awarding major construction contracts. However, NIA expects
contractors to begin work in April/May 1980, and completion is still expected,
as scheduled, by end-1982.
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Prolect through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures which are currently
in the process of being resolved. The trend in implementation is improving,
although progress will be slower than expected in the foreseeable future.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
June 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1809-PH Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 26, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939        Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness:  December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950        Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been overcome. Further major problems are
not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by May 1980,
except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for completion in



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $189
million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications
covering the balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 30% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of them
before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road maintenance
and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress. All 28
workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of them,
awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980. Overall
project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24 months later
than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late start of some
critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution of some of the
road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has made a slow start, but prequalification of contrac-
tors for the road construction works is underway, utilizing new procedures
agreed during loan negotiations. Proposals for the technical assistance to



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
MPH and MLGCD have been received from the short-listed consulting firms and
evaluation is in process. A short-list of prospective consulting firms for
the design and construction supervision of workshops has been prepared and
proposals requested. Preparatory work for the continuation of the road
maintenance and road restoration programs begun under the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1353-PH) has begun. Selection of technical assistance
consultants to MPWTC/NEDA for the continuation of the transport planning
advisory services, begun under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in
process. Land acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way.
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to manage
book development, production, and distribution for public elementary and
secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with minimal delays in textbook publishing/printing and
teacher training. About 18 million textbooks have been produced and
distributed. Delays are greatest in construction of the central warehouse
complex, which is about 20 months behind schedule. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 69% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about one year behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures have been taken by the Govern-
ment and the delays arrested. Enrollment projections and staff development
programs show that the project is making steady progress towards its
development impact targets. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates,
but disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the
implementation delays.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF.  ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas on schedule
(Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET started another experimental
utilization in Mindanao in late 1979. In order to provide information on the
desirability of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes
a substantial evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly and is
expected to be completed in the mid-1980s.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
June 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980. A monitoring and evaluation unit has
been established within EDPITAF and the collection of base line data is in
progress. A review of combined World Bank and bilateral sources assistance
shows that the fishery technical assistance program is well coordinated and
mutually complementary.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure and
1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services component are
complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have now been awarded.
The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many initial diffi-
culties overcome and lessons learned which should hasten implementation of the
remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded in all six Water Districts for distri-
bution networks, pumping stations and reservoirs. The scope of subprojects
was revised by LWUA and approved by communities in public hearings.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Difficulties in contracting local firms for drilling have resulted in delays
in the preparation of feasibility studies in remote areas. LWUA has been
requested to present a plan for assistance to Water Districts in
institution-building, and proposing solutions to the scarcity of local well
drilling contractors.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met.
Because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures resulting from recent
oil increases, the increase in water rates of P 0.25 per cubic meter ori-
ginally scheduled for October 1979 has been postponed to about mid-1980.
MWSS now expects to achieve a rate of return of 5% on net revalued fixed
assets in 1981 instead of 1980.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH  Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30. 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MfW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 1981, more than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the
project is estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the
original estimate ($92 million). The Closing Date of the loan has been
postponed from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for
completion of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The revised foreign exchange component is estimated at $44.4
million, compared with the original estimate of $58.0 million. Procurement
has been slow, with the result that disbursements have been behind schedule.
The Bank waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978 and the Government
has requested that this be repeated for 1979.  NPC's financial performance was
reviewed by the Bank during the energy sector review in April/May 1980. In
the meantime, the Government authorized a 31% power rate increase effective
February 1980, and NPC expects to meet the covenanted 8% rate of return in
1980. Plans for establishing a training center, which was to be financed by
the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Execution of the project is now improving, after initial delays in
tender document preparation and procurement. Following reorganization of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank project materials
were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late 1979 following
receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are expected before
June 1980. Bid documents for the third and last package of materials have
been prepared, and contract awards are expected in September 1980. NEA's
financial performance in 1978 and 1979 was satisfactory, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's finan-
cial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been fully
drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial projects.
DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a
pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the loan is almost fully
disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The DBP ($16.7 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan have been
fully disbursed. The Rural Industrial Cooperative Program ($0.6 million)
which is being implemented by the National Electrification Administration is
facing management and staffing problems because of its experimental nature.
Disbursements on this component have been slow. The Small Business Advisory
Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry has been
implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 1190       Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan were intended to be used by DBP to finance
large-, medium- and small-scale industries. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since
been fully committed by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of March 31, 1980 commitments under
the loan amounted to $18.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8. 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of March 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.5 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Out of the total loan of $80 million, $50 million is earmarked for
financing large industry and $29.7 million for small-scale industry projects
and a small portion ($0.3 million) for technical assistance. Commitments for
subprojects under the large industry component amounted to $43.5 million as of
March 31, 1980. In addition, as of the same date the small and medium
industry and the technical assistance components had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose $24.5
million was provided under the loan. In the final quarter of 1980, IGLF
started making commitments under the loan. Loan utilization is now
progressing well. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; ClosinR
Date: June 30, 1980
As of March 1980, 193 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 12 were under construction and 14 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 92% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds.
While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation
of funds it is likely that there will be a 6- to 12-month delay in project
completion. Following the disbanding on December 31, 1979, of the
administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was appointed for
both this and the second project. This action is expected to speed up
significantly the completion of this first project. In January 1979 the
project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and equipment
for service delivery; training; information, education and communication
campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second population project. The
amended total project cost is $40 million. The total cost estimate had
decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly to price increases not
materializing as forecast. The management situation in the Commission on
Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional analysis of the Ministry of
Health is completed. The recommendations of this study are being considered
to strengthen the integrated health/nutrition/family planning programs.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979.  Implemen-
ting agencies obtained sufficient GOP budget allocation for CY1980 and have
started several significant activities under this project. Most of the sites
for facilities under Part A of the projects have been acquired, a new con-
struction unit has been established to monitor and coordinate all civil works
under the project. Most of the contracts for operational research and pro-
duction of communication materials have been finalized. The Ministry of
Health is streamlining the project management activities into its line
functions. A national task force is engaged in developing the operational
policies, guidelines and manuals for implementation of Primary Health Care
Program and two independent studies to strengthen the finance/accounts manage-
ment and integrated health/population/nutrition management information system
are underway. Though due to delayed release of GOP funds implementation is
slightly behind the schedule, the overall progress is satisfactory.



- 45 -
ANNEX EI
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: approximately three
years (1977-79);
(b) The project was prepared by: the Philippine Ports Authority
with the assistance of consultants;
(c) Dates of first presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission
to consider the project: May 1977 and March 1978;
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 17, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness; October 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Principal conditions of the loan would be:
(a) MPW would, by October 1, 1980, establish a Project Executive Committee and
appoint a full-time Project Director. The qualifications of the Project
Director and the organization and staffing of the Project Management Office
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 54).
(b) PPA would discuss proposed major organizational changes with the
Bank prior to implementation (para. 55);
(c) PPA would agree with the Bank suitable operational targets for the
project ports by no later than December 31, 1981 (para. 55);
(d) PPA would conduct siltation observations and review dredging
maintenance requirements at Cebu by December 31, 1982 (para. 56);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)  The Government would (i) cause the removal of wrecks in the
proposed project access channel at Cebu; (ii) cause the relocation
of present occupiers of the project site at Cagayan de Oro under a
plan agreed to by the Bank no later than June 30, 1981; (iii)
relocate a fishing vessel anchorage at Zamboanga by June 30, 1981;
and (iv) acquire rights-of-way and construct port access roads at
Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga (paras. 56 and 57);
(f) The Government would cause PPA to determine the number of arrastre
firms to operate at project ports in consultation with the Bank
(para. 64);
(g) PPA would earn a rate of return on net fixed assets of not less
than 5% in 1981, 1982 and 1983, and not less than 7% in 1984 and
thereafter and adjust tariffs, in consultation with the Bank, no
later than January 1, 1981 (para. 67);
(h) the first revaluation of PPA's net fixed assets would take place
in 1984, with subsequent revaluations at least every five years
thereafter (para. 67);
(i) PPA would not increase the total cost of the Investment Plan
(1980-86) by more than 10% in any financial year without prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 70);
(j) PPA would consult with the Bank prior to entering into an
agreement for the purchase of craft or equipment exceeding P 50
million (para. 70); and
(k) PPA would not incur new debt if net revenue falls below 1.75 times
the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal
year (para. 70).
2.        An additional condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and PPA
(para. 58).
3.        Retroactive financing of the cost of consulting services for final
engineering is recommended, for expenditures to be incurred after April 1,
1980 and prior to loan signature (para. 60).



_  i,                       *                                       ,                                       ,                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD) 14769
:dAY 6
,0'g                                                                                        gA                                                        
CZ                                                  _N






IBRD 14860
112,4                                        12 f4-                                         4V       FEERUARY 1980
-12                                                                                              SA    A PR
~~~~~~~~~~I7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
i-  ILDo li0 bo        r
4~~~~ i~ iDumoga)R      ~ (+3$AA   ¢rrmg47A't  
BP3naRxs                 -     e_                                    TZos                           ° 
OiO    Bacolod   ~~~~~~~jX3' Tc,     o
SCJT                  CETA  VISAYA   CND MIDAA                                                               *!w* v              1IDAA
Bo?o ~ ~ N\
ji    tPrincipar  ports ofZ e                         Y T                                                 .
--BR      prjc roads\
Buen                                     t~~/ra   oan       sr1uma                       E
¢ : z           | § | | Rotlway~~~~~~~~~~To
;\    Insntos  iprsKLMTR      04    08    0   2   4   6 
S~~~~ ~ ~ ~                       Trnkin aipot H  HiE 0                                  2      4       0     80     Io      
PANAY GULF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  CMGN~N
_4            --- - provinciolbound3ries                    co~~~~~~~~~~~~~undmsowo        MALAYASI dihtmp/tnte7adt/vtgsued1dB- ;EA 4
1224,    Al A                                              1 7   2            N1 o sTadsg
/ w  I          *TI                                                    \isaya
BuRs        jSRIA
Dipolo                   C  Iqa          ua            AUtiau
PA6tau                              toILNA   -\
SUR~~         ~~~ iodin paana                                 Mnky
Sin      NOC*                                          D   NE ELaag
ki~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v                                                                       >1
Banilan    pu                         0zrn
~~            ~~                                             GenSantSURato
ON                     /
.k1\ ~ ~   ~    iii   rjctprs                          ~< S/u                                               DV
\AVA
BasPrnilalpotsOs ntr\ \.
SIZA       ILA  Anentoalarot                           KLMTR 0204 605 10101010
1220~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 124                                                  126



