Document of
The World Bank                      FIL    COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Veport No.2830a-PH
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
April 30, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
- =     Peso
P :-                        US$0.137
.    k~.on  =        US$137,000
=       P 7.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I mte()             =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 Ig -i2.r  (km)            0.62 mile (mi)
(kg)    =       2.2 pounds (lb)
rL4i0t=  0.98 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    *  Asian      e .    -- Bank
BOC     -  Bureatt
BPW     -  Bureau w-Jt    i        ._
GR           ross ..       I      '
IATCTP  -  lnter-Age -    ;-S-:  cal Committee on Transport Planning
ILMLW    -  .iean Lowe-i        er
M. TC    -  linistri.        - i:ort and Communications
NIH     -  Ministr', s    -Lc Highways
MPW     -  Ministry O.   ic Works
MPWTC   -  Ministry of T>iU  Works, Transportation and Communications
PAL     -  Philippine 3 L,nes
PEA     -  ]?hilippine.   :te Authority
PMU     -  port mana&&.      M tit
PNR     -  Philippine      wisl Railways
PPA     -  Philippine        Authority
PPDO    -  1'lannin-         e = ct Development Office
PTS     -  Phllpp.--          ort Survey
NEDA    -  National'      -'c Development Authority
NRT     -  net reg.         ons
NTSS    -  National  '       t Systems Study
GOVERNMENT OF
HIE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



PHILIPPINES                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. TRANSPORT SECTOR  .......................    1
General  ............................................................   1
Transport Subsectors ....................,                                     2
Transport Planning, Coordination and Strategies ......................  5
Previous Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector .....................   7
2.  PORT SUBSECTOR  .......................................................   8
PPA Organization ................................          .     .     .       8
Management, Staff and Training ........................................ 
Existing Port Facilities ........................................ 10
Traffic  ..............................   13
Operations  ..............................  15
Tariffs and Costs  ..............................  18
Budget, Accounting and Audit ......................................... 19
3. INVESTMENT PLAN AND PROJECT .19
PPA's Investment Plan 1980-86 . --                                            19
The Project and the Proposed Loan .20
Description of the Main Project Items .                                       21
Cost Estimates  ......................................................  23
Financing Plan ..                   ............................              25
Project Implementation .................................. 25
Procurement and Disbursement  .........         .......................  26
Ecology  ..................................  26
4.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ..................................  27
Traffic  ................................  27
Benefits  .......,.. ..............30
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis  ....................... ..  35
5.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ................................................ 37
General ..                                                                    37
Present and Future Financial Performance - Project Ports ... 38
PPA Consolidated Financial Performance    ..                       .          39
Sensitivity Analysis .-------------...----..... 42
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS            --------------------  -     43
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited the Philippines
in October 1979, comprising Messrs. K. C. Rodley (senior financial analyst) and F.
Khin-Maung-Gyi (engineer) from the Bank; and Mr. J. Bigosinski (economist -
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
2.01  Philippine Ports Forecast Traffic Smmary  ...     .....................  14
2.02  Project Ports Forecast Traffic Summary  ..........................  15
3.01 PPA Investment Plan 1980-84  .l....... ... . .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . 20
3.02  Project Cost Sumnary  .......                                      24
3.03 Project Financing Plan   .. ...............................  25
4.01 Economic Rate of Return        ............      ..........         36
4.02  Switch Value Analysis  ***...................**g.....  36
4.03 Net Present Value  ..............................                   37
5.01  Summary Project Port Income & Expenditure Account 1979-86    .......  38
5.02  Summary PPA Income & Expenditure Account 1980-86  ................  39
5.03  Summary PPA Consolidated Balance Sheet 1980-86  ..6................  40
5.04  Summary PPA Consolidated Cash Flow Forecast 1980-84  ............. 41
5.05  Sensitivity Analysis  ........... .0.0.0.0.o ............... ..... 43
ANNEXES
1.  Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance  ............... 46
2.  Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps  .........................$ .... 47
3.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .... ..... 49
April 1980



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
1. Transport Sector
A. General
1.01      In the last decade, t'he Philippines has made significant advances in
the transport field, far exceeding any previous ten-year period both in terms
of funds expended and results achieved.  Between 1968 and 1978, the total
public transport expenditures amounted to P 14 billion (US$1.9 billion)
representing over 30% of total public investment outlays. Since 1975, annual
public transport expenditures increased rapidly (although only representing
about 1.3% of GNP), with highways absorbing about 74% of the total; of the
remainder, airports received 10%, ports 9% and railways 7%. These transport
expenditures for the development and improvement of thle hithierto neglected
transport system were necessary to meet the increased demand for movement of
goods and passengers in the seventies, which had resulted fromo higher income,
population and industrial and agricultural production.
1.02      The 1978-81 projections for commodity flows and passenger traffic
indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of freight and passengers
between the food deficit areas of Luzon and the agricultural surplus areas
of Xindanao than for road transport within the major islands. Accordingly,
the 1979-82 Investment Program allocates a greater share of total public
transport expenditures to the expansion of ports and airports; 19% for ports,
14% for airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for highways. No significant
public funds are allocated for shipping investment since it is largely
financed by the private sector.
1.03     The total transport investment tentatively allocated in the Govern-
ment's indicative 1979-82 Investment Program is F 14,374 million
(JS$1,942 million);/1 an increase of about one third over the previous four-
year period. However, the transport share of total public investment will
decrease from the previous level of one third to about one fifth of the total
program; the power sector will receive an increased share of the allocation to
implement the Government's objective to reducing dependence on imported
petroleum by constructing hydro, nuclear, and geothermal power plants as
alternative sources of electrical energy.
/1 A ten-year transport investment program is under preparation by the
Ministry of Transport with the assistance of the National Economic
Development Authority and foreign advisors.



-2-
1.04     Between 1970-76, transport developed somewhat faster than the economy
as a whole: freight and passenger movements grew by about 8% and 7% p.a.
respectively, while real GNP grew by 6%. Freight and passenger movements by
inter-island shipping accounted for much of this increase, at 14% and 8%
respectively, with road transport growing at a lesser pace: 4% for freight
and 5% for passengers. The average annual target growth rate of GNP is 7.5%
during 1978-85. In the light of the projected growth of the economy, both
road freight and passenger transport is expected to grow at 8% during the same
period.
1.05      goad transport is the dominant mode within the two major islands
of Luzon and Mindanao, estimated to account for nearly 80% of passenger
traffic; but it is estimated that the road's share of total freight traffic
has decreased from 57% in 1970 to 44% in 1976. Although reliable data are not
available, privately operated inter-island shipping, serving a population
scattered over hundreds of islands, appears to be the largest transport mode
(about 54%) for freight traffic. The increased share of inter-island traffic
has been due to the growing commerce between the food deficit areas of Luzon
and the agricultural surplus areas of Mindanao. Relatively short inland
distances have limited railways to a small fraction of total traffic.
B. Transport Subsectors (Map 14769)
Highways
1.06      The public road transport system in the Philippines is made up of
three major interlocking components: (a) national; (b) provincial, municipal
and city; and (c) barangay (mainly farm-to-market) roads. The total network
consists of about 152,800 km of roads, of which 22,900 km are classified as
national, 29,000 km provincial, 13,400 km city and municipal, and 87,500 km
barangay roads. National roads include about 122 km of toll expressways with
grade separated intersections north and south of Manila. Except for the toll
roads, road classification is often arbitrary as it is not always based on
function. In remote areas such as northeastern Luzon and many parts of
Mindanao, national roads serve as penetration roads providing the only access
to the villages. In many parts of the country, provincial and barangay roads
are indistinguishable, both being characterized by low volume traffic serving
the limited influence areas to move agricultural inputs and outputs and to
connect the rural communities with administrative and market centers.



-3-
1.07      Despite Government efforts /1 since 1969 to develop a modern highway
network, the system is still inadequate for the current level of traffic.
Although sufficient in location and extent, for the most part, condition of
the roads is deplorable, and missing bridges effectively isolate many rural
communities. Most unimproved roads are in poor condition due to: (a) defi-
cient designs resulting in inadequate drainage, embankment and pavements; (b)
lack of proper maintenance; (c) damage from frequent overloading (many of the
trunk roads were built long ago and intended to carry only a small number of
vehicles); and (d) insufficient funds to repair flood damage caused during the
rainy and typhoon seasons. Moreover, vehicle operating and travel costs are
generally high, as only 42% of the national highways and 13% of the provincial
roads are paved, (compared with 85% and 35% in Thailand).
Railways
1.08     The Government-owned Philippine National Railways (PNR) has a network
on Luzon totalling 1,060 km, of which 740 km of main line and 80 km of branch
lines and sidings are operating. Most of PNR's track was relaid during the
1960s with Japanese aid; the rest is in very poor condition. Management,
maintenance and operations of the railways have been inadequate. Except in
the Bicol region, the main line is paralleled by highways for most of its
length and, as haulage distances for most commodities are relatively short,
and commodities are in small shipments, the railway is not presently
competitive with trucks and buses. It is unlikely that this situation will
change in the near future.
1.09     The Government's present objective is to improve PNR operations to
permit the railroad to cover at least current operating costs. Programs under
the 1971-76 Rehabilitation Plan have improved services and passenger and
freight traffic have increased somewhat since 1973. In 1977, PNR obtained a
loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to rehabilitate its Southern Line
(about 450 km), which serves the area between Manila and Legaspi. A second
railway, the privately owned Panay Railway operates an antiquated 117 km of
track on Panay Island: it is presently unsafe but is undergoing minimum
rehabilitation to permit limited services on Panay Island which will include
the transport of sugar to Iloilo port for export.
/1 Major road improvement activities began in 1969 following completion of
the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS), a two-year study conducted under
UNDP financing with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. The PTS
recommended improvement of about 6,000 km of national roads,
reorganization of the highway administration, and improvments in road
maintenance procedures. Most of the priority roads identified in the PTS
have been or are being improved with local resources, supplemented by
assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the Bank. Between 1969 and 1979
about 4,800 km of national and 5,200 km of provincial roads have been
constructed or improved.



-4-
Ports
1.10      There are 18 major and 76 minor national ports, and about 390
municipal ports throughout the Philippine archipelago, plus over 200 private
piers and wharves. Manila, the largest port, accounts for about 46% of the
23 million tons of cargo handled each year by public ports.  Most long-
established public ports are located where natural protection is available but
sedimentation problems occur in many ports. More modern private piers and
wharves, which handle mainly petroleum products and iron ore, are generally
located to take advantage of naturally deep water. Many public ports suffer
from inadequate work areas and transit sheds, and poor maintenance. The
cumulative effect of these deficiencies is congestion which unduly restricts
the movement of cargo, slows stevedoring and lengthens ship turn-around time.
1.11      In the past few years the Government has received assistance from
the ADB for improvement of port facilities at Manila, Davao and Cotabato,
from the Federal Republic of Germany for port works at Davao and Iligan, and
from the IBRD for the expansion of the ports of Cagayan de Oro and General
Santos under Loan 939-PH (Second Ports Project). As a part of the project,
the Bank supported the establishment of the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA)
which was mandated to consolidate and assume the port-related functions
which had previously been fragmented between the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and
Bureau of Public Works (BPW) in the former Ministry of Public Works,
Transportation, and Communications (MPWTC). Since it became operational in
1976, PPA has taken over the management and operation of all national ports,
expanded its technical staff and improved accounting procedures with the
assistance of Bank-financed consultants.
1.12      The Bank's objective in the port sector is to assist the PPA in
developing a national port policy, increasing port capacity to meet industrial
development in secondary urban growth centers, and improving administration,
operations, and planning for all major national ports. PPA's current
Investment Plan (1979-83) not only aims at increasing capacity at major ports,
but also at consolidating ports of various sizes and functions in outlying
areas where improved overland mobility makes economies of scale and efficiency
possible. The selection of ports for future improvement has been determined
in the context of the traffic-patterns of the total transport network, the
development potential of the hinterlands, and the natural conditions of the
harbors. Details on the subsector are given in Chapter 2.
Inter-Island and Coastal Shipping
1.13      Despite its status as the most important transport mode for freight,
the potential of inter-island and coastal shipping has not yet been fully
realized, mainly due to inadequate port facilities and the antiquated local
shipping fleet. There are about 480 inter-island vessels of over 100 gross
tons, and many more smaller ships. In 1976, more than 34% of the inter-island
fleet and 41% of the ocean-going fleet were 25 or more years old. Most
smaller ships are converted naval or military vessels, and over-loading is
characteristic. There are about 50 Philippine inter-island vessel operators,



but the majority of the fleet is owned by only ten major firms. In addition
to the inter-island fleet, there are smaller craft providing low cost, short-
haul transport of agricultural products for local as well as inter-island
markets, and barges are used extensively to move raw or refined sugar, rice,
and other produce. Coastal transport is frequently a logical alternative in
areas where cross-island road construction is made difficult by mountainous
terrain; thus numerous roadsteads and shallow water ports have been developed
where land access to communities is severely limited.
1.14      The increasing regional specialization in production patterns and
rural development has given inter-island shipping a new impetus to play a
major role in the Government's plans for increased food production and
regional balance in economic and social development. The growing need for
food in deficit areas has to be met by increased production in surplus areas
such as Mindanao. This in turn, requires efficient marine transport of both
agricultural inputs and outputs. In recognition of this need to improve
inter-island shipping services, the Bank provided a loan of US$20 million in
1974 for a shipping project. Since 1977 ten interisland container vessels
have been put into service by major operators financed locally and more are
expected as port facilities are improved.
Civil Aviation
1.15     Manila, Cebu and Zamboanga, Philippines' international airports are
served by 20 international and regional airlines, including Philippine Air
Lines (PAL). The latter provides international services, and is the prin-
cipal carrier for 78 domestic airports operated by the Government. Domestic
passenger traffic has increased by about 12% p.a. over the past six years,
while air freight is still insignificant. With the assistance of a US$26
million loan from ADB, the Manila International Airport is being rehabilitated
and extended to meet the traffic demand expected by 1983.
C. Transport Planning, Coordination and Strategies
1.16     Until mid-1979, transport planning had been the joint responsibilty
of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW). As a central planning agency, NEDA had overall respon-
sibility for public capital investments through its Infrastructure Program and
Project Office, which reviewed and approved investments proposed by each
transport operating agency. NEDA was assisted in this task by the Inter-
Agency Technical Committee on Transport Planning (IATCTP), staffed by repre-
sentatives from each transport agency, including the MPH and MPW. IATCTP
prepared standards and guidelines for the formation of agency plans for devel-
opment and coordination of transport programs and projects. It also served
as a forum for the resolution of operational problems of transport agencies.
1.17     MPW, the other major participant in the joint planning activity,
used its Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO) to undertake
regional planning studies on infrastructure investments and formulate



- 6 -
priorities for major infrastructure projects. PPDO maintained liaison with
NEDA and provided the bulk of technical input to transport planning. The
Board of Transportation (BOT), as a semi-detached unit of the MPW, also
handled the quasi-judicial function of granting routes to transport
companies and enforcing rates and regulations for their operations on the
basis of IATCTP policy guidelines.
1.18     In July 1979 the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) was
created to undertake transport planning, coordination and regulation. It
became operational with a small staff drawn mainly from PPDO of MPW and BOT.
The Ministry is still evolving and is in the process of defining its
functions, expanding its staff and preparing to take necessary steps to
absorb the transport planning functions now discharged by NEDA. However, it
will be some time before MOTC can assume full responsibility for transport
planning, coordination and regulation. In the interim, MOTC will continue to
be assisted by NEDA, IATCTP and expatriate advisors.
1.19     One of the important transport planning activities is the Govern-
ment's National Transport Systems Study (NTSS) undertaken in preparation of
a ten-year transport investment program. As a result of the Bank's Trans-
port Planning Mission's recommendations, several resident planning advisors
were appointed in 1977 to assist the Government under the Manila Urban
Development Project (Loan 1282-PH) in carrying out this study. The advisors
were expected to assist individual line agencies and MPW with matters
concerning transport policy, coordination and modal planning. However,
completion of the transport study has been delayed due to changes in the
advisory staff, a high turn-over among the counterpart team, and the lengthy
period required for data collection. Accordingly, the Bank's Fourth Highway
Project (Loan 1661-PH) included additional advisory services to allow
completion of the first phase of the transport study by mid-1980. Completion
of the entire study is not expected until late 1981.
1.20      Transport improvement programs are designed to promote the Govern-
ment's objectives of (a) increasing food production and rural incomes;
(b) promoting regional balance in socio-economic development by establishing
growth poles away from Metropolitan Manila; and (c) expanding industrial
production for domestic and foreign markets. To increase transport capacity
so that it can meet the growing demand, broad strategies are being pursued
concerning two main aspects: investment and operational.
1.21      Investment strategies embody two major elements:  (a) transport
sector and program review; and (b) strengthening the planning capabilities
of operating agencies. At the center, MOTC/NEDA are assisted by foreign
advisors to undertake review and evaluation of operating agency proposals for
their consistency with i. sectoral and overall development objectives such as
agricultural and industrial development; ii. financial resource availability;
iii. inter-modal efficiency; and iv. agency implementation capabilities.
Needless to say, the task of analyzing least cost solutions for the
achievement of the desired development objectives is a complex one. It will
take long, deliberate and persistent efforts on the part of the Government



planners to effectively analyze feasible alternatives (e.g., a greater
utilization of existing facilities in lieu of new investments) and assess
socio-economic effects of major investment projects in arriving at optimal
investment choices. However, a good beginning has been made by the Government
in a systematic collection of data and analysis with which to undertake
coordinated investment programming.
1.22      To enable MOTC/NEDA to carry out inter-modal planning functions, the
analytical capacity of transport agencies both at the center and at the
regional and provincial levels must be greatly strengthened. The Philippine
archipelago, with its chain of over 7,000 islands, provides a strong case for
delegating major planning responsibilities to regions and provinces. It is at
this level where relevant data must be assembled to identify specific trans-
port problems, examine alternatives in terms of costs and benefits and rank
priorities on the basis of the intimate local knowledge of the transport
facilities under their control. Effective transfer and strengthening of local
planning responsibilities can be accomplished only in the long term. However,
the Government has clearly established the direction in which it intends to
move.
1.23      In order to reduce the need for capital expenditures or, at least,
make it possible to postpone investment needs, the Government is making an
increasingly greater effort to improve the operational efficiency of exist-
ing facilities and administrative procedures. Plans are currently being
formulated to improve vehicle operations in Metropolitan Manila through a
comprehensive scheme of traffic management. Greater attention is being
focussed on the maintenance of roads and ports, and on a restructuring of
the management staffing and procedures for port operations and transport
regulation. These operational improvements would make existing and future
investments more productive and would yield much higher benefit cost ratios
than similar sized investments in new projects.
D. Previous Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector
1.24      The Bank Group's assistance to support the Government's efforts to
modernize and expand the transport sector included the First Port Loan
(290-PH) in 1961 amounting to US$8.5 million which financed procurement of
dredging equipment. However, US$1.1 million of the loan amount was cancelled
due to failure to operate and maintain the dredgers in an efficient manner.
In 1973, a Second Port Loan (939-PH) of US$6.1 million was provided to assist
the expansion of two important ports on Mindanao: Cagayan de Oro in the north
and General Santos in the south. Project completion was delayed by three
years mainly because of retendering, dredger mobilization difficulties and
inadequate project supervision control by BPW.
1.25      The Bank's First Shipping project was prepared to help modernize the
old inter-island fleet, provide technical assistance to strengthen planning
and administrative capabilities in the maritime industry sector and formulate
a ten-year investment program for inter-island shipping. Until recently,



- 8 -
implementation of this project has been delayed by institutional problems.
They related to the uncertainty about how various financial institutions would
handle interest rate issues and subloan administration and appraisal,
subborrowers' reluctance to assume foreign exchange risks, and a disagreement
about how ship safety inspection is to be undertaken. Some of these issues
are now being resolved, and accordingly, the rate of commitment has increased
substantially.
1.26      The highway sector has received the bulk of the Bank's lending for
transport in the Philippines: four loans (Loans 731-PH, 950-PH, 1353-PH and
1661-PH) totalling US$271 million have been made for the improvement of
important sections of national highways and connecting feeder roads, and for a
country-wide maintenance organization for national roads, including
improvement of workshops and procurement of maintenance equipment, spare parts
and workshop machinery. These projects have also helped to develop the
Philippine contracting industry through experience in fulfilling a steadily
increasing stream of contracts. Philippine consulting firms have also gained
valuable experience through their association with foreign consultants on the
design of the project roads.
2. PORT SUBSECTOR
PPA Organization
2.01      PPA is a quasi-government corporate body created by Presidential
Decree in 1974. An amending decree in 1975 widened PPA's powers and
functions which require the authority to develop, maintain, operate,
supervise and regulate port services and facilities of national ports in the
Philippines. PPA's governing board, responsible directly to the Minister of
Public Works, comprises seven directors, five of whom are cabinet ministers.
The private sector is represented by one director, and PPA's general manager
is a member ex-officio. PPA is empowered inter-alia to fix rates and
charges, determine terms and conditions of service for its employees broadly
consistent with Civil Service rules and regulations, adopt recurrent income
and expenditure budgets and capital expenditure budgets, invest surplus
funds in Government securities and borrow money after consultation with the
Central Bank and the Department of Finance and with the approval of the
President. Dues, which are defined in the enabling decree as including
harbor fees, tonnage and wharfage dues, berthing charges, port dues, and any
other dues or fees imposed by virtue of existing law or the decree, are
increased or decreased by the President upon the recommendation of PPA, to
provide a satisfactory return on the Authority's assets and adjustments may
be similarly made to dues so as to reflect the costs of providing the
services.
2.02      During 1977 two Presidential Decrees (Nos. 1177 and 1234) resulted
in fundamental changes to PPA's financial autonomy with effect from
January 1,1978 by requiring PPA (and other agencies) to: (i) remit all



- 9 -
revenues to Treasury for crediting to a Special Account in the Government's
Ceneral Fund; (ii) obtain quarterly, in advance, budget allotment
authorization from the Government's Budget Commission to enable PPA funds to
be released by Treasury to meet recurrent and capital expenditures; and
(iii) maintain financial records in accordance with governmental budget
accounting rules. The application of these regulations has in the past
resulted in reduction by the Budget Commission of PPA's spending powers
below the levels approved by PPA's own board. Some relief from budgetary
constraints has been available to PPA for financing certain capital works
through the utilization of surplus funds (termed "corporate") which it had
accrued up to December 31, 1977. However, these funds are gradually being
depleted. In addition to maintaining commercial accounting records, PPA is
now required to provide supplementary financial data in compliance with
government budgetary procedures.
2.03      PPA's full-time General Manager (and ex-officio Vice-Chairman of
the Board), who exercises day-to-day control, is an experienced and competent
administrator. Chart 21268 shows PPA's organization.
2.04      Port Management Units (PMUs) have been established at major national
ports with each PMU exercising control over neighboring minor national ports.
There also exist over 200 private piers and wharves in the Philippines
from which traffic PPA derives revenues. Since its treation PPA's approval
is required before any private port can be constructed or expanded. There are
also some 390 municipal ports most of which offer only basic and simple
landing facilities for small craft.
Management, Staff and Training
2.05      M4anagement is generally very satisfactory, but there remains a
need to develop certain areas, in particular strengthen development project
planning and execution, and improve financial and operational information
available to management to assist in both day-to-day control and corporate
planning.
2.06      The experience gained by PPA through the Third Ports Project
Feasibility Study should be consolidated by allocating PPA's project planning
and supervision activities to permanently staffed units suitably interlinked.
A permanent planning division staffed with experienced engineers, economists
and statisticians is necessary to fulfill PPA's wide responsibilities in
developing Philippine ports. The supervision of major projects also will
require a nucleus of full-time engineers for years to come. Appropriate
organizational structure changes are now being considered by PPA to achieve
these goals. PPA agreed during negotiations to discuss proposed major
changes with the Bank prior to implementation [para. 6.02(a)] The establish-
ment of a hydrographic division is required in view of PPA's extensive
dredging responsibilities and the cost of related staff training and equipment
is included in the proposed project. The cost of a civil engineering adviser
for the duration of project construction, and training courses abroad for
MPW and PPA port engineers is also provided under the proposed loan.



- 10 -
2.07      More accurate and succinct data are required for effective manage-
ment control and to assist in corporate planning. The Bank's appraisal
revealed the inadequacy and inaccuracy of some of PPA's statistical data
much of which is derived from shipping and arrastre companies. Consequently
many productivity indices computed for PPA ports are unreliable. More
emphasis is needed on quality rather than on quantity and greater presenta-
tional uniformity is required to enable more useful comparisons to be
made especially of data supplied by PMUs.  The scope, content and accuracy
of financial reporting also needs improving substantially. The proposed
project includes the cost of a port experienced economist and a management
accountant to assist PPA staff in these areas. These experts would also
assist in the determifiation of reliable productivity indices which would
enable PPA and the Bank to subsequently agree on suitable operational
targets for the project ports. Agreement on these targets will be reached
by no later than December 31, 1981 [para 6.02(b)].
2.08      PPA operates a training school which was established in 1975 with
ILO/NORAD assistance. Initially the school trained stevedore and wharf
labor; subsequently PPA introduced various work-oriented training courses
for lower and middle management operational and administrative staff.
Existing Port Facilities (Map 14860)
2.09      Cagayan De Oro (Map 14771).  Cagayan de Oro has a 451 m long,
23 m wide marginal reinforced-concrete wharf on piled foundations, of which
291 m consists of an earlier existing facility which was recently repaired
and upgraded when a 160 m new extension was added, both sections having a
dredged alongside depth of 8.5 m below MLLW. The new extension was
completed under the Second Ports Project which also provided paved storage
and working areas behind the wharves, as well as transit sheds, administra-
tive and other buildings, fencing and gates, drainage and other service
facilities.
2.10      The tidal range is less than 1 m and siltation is virtually
nonexistent along the present wharves. However, to the south, where the next
extension is proposed, are shallow log-ponds divided by rock bulkheads.
Currently, these log ponds are leased to private companies. Some 200 squatter
huts are also present outside the south boundary fence of the port. The early
termination of the log-pond leases and their removal, and the relocation
satisfactory to the Bank of all huts encroaching within the proposed project
area by no later than June 30, 1981 was agreed with the Government during
negotiations [para. 6.01(a)]. The city government is already taking action
to move site occupants to an available temporary site pending final
resettlement in permanent quarters. The cost of relocation is estimated
at $40,000 to be borne by the relevant government agencies.
2.11      Just outside the proposed project area, an oil company has a tank
farm and supply depot. The incoming supply pipes cross the project area and
are to be relocated. This was confirmed with PPA during negotiations.
2.12      The partly salvaged and partly submerged wreck of a small warship
lies to the south of the port, about 430 m from the existing wharf. As it



- 11 -
lies in the path of the proposed construction, its removal is included in
the project.
2.13      The 500 m long access road to the proposed project site will be an
extension of a newly paved road leading from the Iligan-Cagayan de Oro-Butuan
highway to the recently completed Agora Market. Early right-of-way
acquisition will be necessary; both this and a construction schedule was
agreed by the Government during negotiations [para. 6.01(b)].
2.14      Cebu (Map 14770).  Cebu has a narrow marginal waterfront for cargo
handling, open storage and roadway. The width varies from 28 to 45 m over
an overall length of 3.8 km with alongside depths of water varying between
3 to 6.5 m below MLLW. Most of the berths are in poor condition. Except
for a 9 m alongside depth foreign berth and one 6.5 m alongside depth
domestic berth, maximum depth is 5 m due to existing structural foundation
limitations. In addition, there are three finger piers, each 33 m wide and
155 m long, with alongside depths varying from 3 to 5 m below MLLIJ, which
are all in very poor condition. Existing structural foundation limitations
of the piers do not allow increasing the dredged depths beyond 5 m below
MLLW.
2.15      Tidal range is 1.6 m maximum; the tides are diurnal and currents
are insignificant. Some maintenance dredging is necessary, but information
is insufficient to determine necessary frequency and quantity. PPA proposes
to conduct observations and review maintenance dredging requirements by no
later than December 31, 1982. This was agreed during negotiations
[para 6.02(c)].
2.16      Some wrecks lie in the areas to be dredged for an access channel
to the proposed quay. As removal powers do not rest solely with PPA, removal
of these wrecks, which is not included in the project, was agreed by the
Government during negotiations [para. 6.01(c)].
2.17      Iloilo (Map 14772).  Iloilo has two sections of port facilities:
(a) a narrow 10 m wide marginal waterfront extending about 2 km along the
west bank of the Iloilo river used by domestic traffic; and (b) a deep water
wharf for foreign and large domestic vessels located on the Iloilo strait
side.
2.18      The river front wharves are generally of very old mass concrete
and reinforced concrete construction, said to be built at the turn of the
century, plans of which are no longer available. Part of the wharves are
deck platforms supported on open timber shallow depth piled foundations,
which do not permit dredging alongside depths beyond 5 m below MLLW. The
wharf structures need extensive rehabilitation, but this is considered
uneconomic as a main city street and a railway track frequently used for
passenger traffic prevent further widening of the narrow wharf aprons.



- 12 -
2.19      Heavy siltation occurs in the river and past dredging has provided
only temporary improvement to the channel. Siltation would rapidly fill
the dredged channels until stability was reached when depths returned to
between 3 m and 4 m below MLLW. A detailed study of the siltation phenomena
is necessary to determine whether more effective and less expensive measures
can and should be taken to maintain existing depths for craft using PPA and
other upriver facilities, e.g. small ship repair yards. However, as already
stated, depths alongside the river wharves cannot exceed 5 m due to structural
limitations. The cost of such a study is included in the project. The mean
tidal range in the river and in the Iloilo strait is 1.6 m.
2.20      Built in 1968, the deepwater wharf located just beyond and south
of the mouth of the Iloilo river, faces the Iloilo strait. It is a
reinforced concrete wharf with a deck 12 m wide and 345 m long, on rein-
forced concrete piled foundations, having a maximum alongside depth of 9 m
below MLLW. A 140 m long, 18 m wide transit shed is located on the wharf
structure. An open shed for passengers, a private warehouse, and a small
cargo equipment maintenance workshop make up the port buildings in this
area, all of which are in good condition. Road access to the city, security
lighting, water supply and fencing also are adequate. The berth nearest to
the mouth of the Iloilo river is subject to heavy siltation, whilst further
expansion at the other end is not possible because of exposure to heavy wave
action and erosion.
2.21      The site of the proposed quay for Iloilo lies north of the
mouth of the Iloilo river, and faces the Iloilo strait. It will be located
northeast of the suburb known as Barrio Obrero. Since early construction of
a 1-km long temporary access road will be necessary to transport
construction materials and equipment from the city to the project site, its
cost is included in the project. Prompt acquisition of the right-of-way,
and the construction of the road was agreed by the Government during
negotiations [para. 6.01(b)]. Funds are also provided in the project for a
permanent road access, its alignment to be decided when the proposed urban
development of the new area behind the new port facility has been finalized.
During negotiations the Government confirmed that suitable arrangements will
be made to construct a railway spur line for the conveyance of export sugar
to the proposed quay.
2.22      Zamboanga (Map 14773R).  Zamboanga has a tee-head jetty which was
constructed prior to 1939. Constructed in reinforced concrete on open piled
foundations, the main wharf is 270 m long and 12 m wide, accessible to the
shore by a skewed approach jetty of similar construction, 22 m wide, 165 m
long on its western side and 125 m long on its eastern side. A reinforced
concrete finger pier addition, 54 m long and 9 m wide, joins the jetty
approach structure midway on its eastern side. Behind the approach jetty
and contiguous to the port land, is a reinforced concrete sheet-piled



- 13 -
marginal wharf 268 m long with a paved apron 35 m wide, completed in 1964
and extending eastward of the approach jetty0 Depths at the outer berths of
the main wharf of the tee-head range from 5.6 m to 8.8 m below MLLW, at the
inner berths from 5 to 7.1; at the finger pier from 5 to 5.8 m; and at the
marginal whar£ from 3.7 to 5 m. Because of tidal currents averaging 1.5
knots, only minor siltation occurs in the jetty head area. The mean tidal
range is I m.
2.23      The proposed extension is to be built west of the existing
facilities in a shallow basin used by fishing vessels. This basin is
protected by a small breakwater structure. The Kawa Kawa Boulevard, runs
close to the breakwater and will serve future port traffic once the proposed
extension is completed. As the basin will be reclaimed for the new
extension, arrangements for the relocation of the fishing vessels to another
site will have to be made by no later than June 30, 1981, i.e., prior to new
construction commencing at site. Timely port access road construction,
linking Kawa Kawa Boulevard, included in the project, will also be
necessary. These actions were agreed with the Government during
negotiations [para. 6.01(b) and (d)].
Traffic
2.24      Reliable traffic data for most of PPA's ports are not available
prior to PPA completing the takeover of ports in December 1977. Subsequent
to 1977 data on port cargo are reasonably reliable, however, passenger
traffic statistics are still inaccurate (see para. 2.36).
2.25      Cargo handled annually at all Philippine ports is expected to grow
from 67 million tons in 1978 to 110 million tons by 1986 and to 140 million
tons by 1990. PPA port facilities currently handle over 31% of total
Philippine traffic and are expected to maintain this share. Details are
given in Table 2.1 and summarized below:



- 14 -
Table 2.01
Philippine ports                  1978                1986                1990
forecast traffic           '000 MT        %    '000 MT        %    '000 MT       %
summary
PPA facilities
Project ports (4)          4,398    20.5       7,167    20.8       8,998    20.3
Manila                     9,130    42.7    15,141    43.8    19,748    44.7
Other major ports (13)   3,948    18.5         6,021     17.4      7,557    17.1
Minor ports (76)           3,904    18.3       6,205    18.0       7,916    17.9
Total PPA ports           21,380   100.0    34,534   100.0    44,219   100.0
All Philippine ports
PPA ports                 21,380    31.6    34,534    31.3    44,219    31.6
Anchorages                 8,183    12.1    13,430    12.1    17,020    12.1
private ports             38,064    56.3    62,460    56.6    79,139    56.3
All Philippine ports    67,627   100.0   110,424   100.0   140,378   100.0
Private ports traffic comprises mainly petroleum products (45%) and iron ore
(20%); anchorage traffic includes petroleum products (50%) and logs (15%).
Traffic at municipal jetties is insignificant and is excluded from the above
table.
2.26      Forecast traffic growth at the four project ports is summarized
below in '000 MT:



- 15 -
Table 2.02: PROJECT PORTS - FORECAST TRAFFIC SUMMARY
('000 MT)
% increase
1978       1986       1990       over 1978
Cagayan de Oro
Foreign          103        252        322           213
Domestic         525         815     1,024            95
Total          628      1,067      1,346           114
Cebu
Foreign          120        285        489           307
Domestic       2,209      3,359      4,154            88
Total        2,329      3,644      4,643            99
Iloilo
Foreign          151        649        782 /a        418
Domestic         620         858     1,066            72
Total          771      1,507      1,848           140
Zamboanga
Foreign            9          15        20           122
Domestic         661         934     1,161            76
Total          670        949      1,181            76
/a  Includes 213,000 tons of sugar currently handled at
anchorage which will move across alongside berths from
1984.
The above forecasts take into account major agricultural and forestry exports,
including the extent to which they will be locally processed prior to
shipment; import needs of these industries including fertilizers, machinery
and construction materials; and consumer goods imports.
Operations
2.27      PPA is directly in charge of port administration, maintenance and
security at the project and other national ports, with the exception of
security at Manila South Harbor which remains in the hands of the BOC
pending a review of the situation by the Secretary of Defence. PPA does not
employ operational labor. Stevedoring and wharf cargo handling, and the



- 16 -
sorting, stacking and delivery to consignees of goods in PPA transit sheds
are undertaken by private arrastre firms who supply all necessary mechanical
equipment. However, PPA staff monitor the activities of these companies to
ensure compliance with port regulations. Ship anchoring and berthing
control is exercised by PPA.
2.28      Most cargo is moved into and from the hold by ship's gear.  Cargo
stored in sheds or open storage areas can remain free of charge in port for
six working days in the case of non-containerized foreign goods and two
working days for domestic cargo. Foreign cargo in containers is allowed
three working days free storage. Penalty charges are then levied to induce
consignees to remove their goods promptly. PPA may also transfer non-
delivered cargo to warehouse storage and charge consignees for removal costs
through the arrastre operators. Ports operate 24 hours a day, though less
activity occurs between 10 pm and 6 am as much of the cargo is currently
carried by scheduled passenger-cargo vessels.
2.29      The Philippine Coast Guard is responsible for maritime and
navigational operations, communications with vessels at sea, lighthouses and
other navigational aids. BOC carries out all customs activities within the
port but has no control over the movement of goods within storage areas.
PPA and arrastre working hours are adjusted to meet port needs. Good
working relations prevail between PPA, BOC and the coast guard. Pilotage and
towage is by Pilots' Associations at the PMUs, subject to overall PPA
supervision.
2.30      Most of the cargo at the four project ports is handled by conven-
tional break-bulk methods and operations are assisted by the use of pallets,
forklifts, tractor/trailer units, mobile conveyors, etc. Between 1977 and
1979 cellular container and side-loading RoRo ships have been introduced at
Cebu and Cagayan de Oro. Some of these and other ships also carry a range
of non-standard boxes. On the more traditional interisland ships, efficient
cargo handling is limited by the dominance of passenger needs in the ship
design. Passenger decks cover much of the ship's length so that cargo can
only be handled from limited areas.
2.31      The designs of smaller ferries and local craft put further limits
on cargo handling speeds. Passenger needs dominate the layout even more
and cargo is frequently carried in hatches below the passenger decks,
reached by ladders. Movement to and from the shore is often by gangplank
over the ship side or via small side-ports.
2.32      These constraints are compounded by narrow wharf aprons which
further hinder efficient and speedy cargo movements at all project ports
except Cagayan de Oro. In Cebu, existing narrow marginal wharves can now be
widened by ten meters as the Philippine Estates Authority (PEA) recently
agreed to allocate additional land to PPA for this purpose. However, at
Iloilo and Zamboanga, city development prevents any expansion of cargo



- 17 -
working areas at existing port sites. A further constraint, especially to
the improvement of existing wharves to cater for the expected growth in
cargo carried by larger vessels, is design limitations which prevent
dredging alongside most wharves below 5 m MLLW.
2.33      The proposed project focuses on providing additional cargo working
areas and deep water berths to handle expected growth in breakbulk cargoes
carried in larger vessels and growth in container traffic which also
requires deep water and larger land areas adjacent to the wharves for the
handling of containers. In addition, the proposed project will rehabilitate
existing marginal quay aprons at Cebu using the additional land recently
made available. The nature and extent of productivity and other benefits
expected from the proposed project are detailed in Chapter 4.
2.34      The large volume of passenger traffic on interisland vessels,
which also mitigates against high cargo throughput, is expected to grow.
Manifested passenger traffic in 1978 at the project ports was as follows:
Cagayan de Oro 583,000; Cebu 3,527,000; Iloilo 1,828,000; and Zamboanga
1,666,000.
2.35      The above figures are much lower than the actual numbers carried.
Field surveys during 1979, showed underreporting of passengers in ships'
manifests ranging between 60% and 200% in project ports. Several schemes
designed to more effectively segregate passengers and cargo to facilitate
faster cargo working have been considered by PPA. However, most large
shipping companies are not convinced that the proposals are workable.
Further studies both of the true volume and future trend of passenger
traffic and suitable passenger facility improvement at PPA ports are clearly
needed. Provision has been made for such studies in the proposed project.
2.36      The Loan Agreement under Loan 939-PH (Second Ports Project)
provides that the number of cargo handling (arrastre) companies at each
project port i.e. Cagayan de Oro and General Santos, be reduced to not more
than two. This measure was designed to avoid duplication of plant and
equipment and diseconomies in operation and in the use of port labor. Prior
to the creation of PPA, BOC reduced arrastre companies at Cagayan de Oro and
General Santos to one by encouraging the amalgamation of the numerous oper-
ators. PPA eventually extended this policy to other ports.
2.37      The policy was recently challenged by the arrastre companies and
the dispute has been referred to a special committee set up by the Minister
of Public Works. An arrastre company in Cebu subsequently filed a court
suit claiming that PPA has no power to determine the number of arrastre
firms operating in ports. Pending a decision by the court, the Ministerial
Committee has postponed consideration of the dispute.
2.38      There is clear evidence of operational improvements following the
reduction of arrastre firms; however, shipowners have complained about the
monopolistic attitude allegedly adopted by the sole arrastre organization



- 18 -
at Cagayan de Oro. The Bank considers that a port container complex, such
as proposed for Cebu, should be operated by only one arrastre firm in view
of the precise control over container movements and related cargo documenta-
tion needed for efficient operation; and the need for the most economic use
of expensive mechanical handling equipment. This conforms with the Govern-
ment and PPA's policy embodied in a recent Presidential Decree governing the
operation of the Manila International Container Complex. At break-bulk
berths, however, more than one arrastre firm could effectively be utilized,
the exact number to be determined by the number and nature of berths at the
port. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the number of
arrastre firms allowed to operate at the project ports be determined by PPA
in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.01(e)].
Tariffs and Costs
2.39      Tariffs for all PPA ports are regulated by PPA subject to
Presidential concurrence. Most existing tariff levels were inherited by PPA
in 1974 and have remained unchanged, with the exception of charges made by
arrastre companies for cargo handling services, which were increased by 25%
in June 1979 with PPA's approval. Tariffs are not cost based and are very
low compared to other ports in Southeast Asia. Principal PPA rates are
given in Table 2.2. Substantial revisions upward are required to enable PPA
to generate an adequate level of cash to meet a reasonable portion of future
port development expenditures. PPA staff were trained in tariff setting
techniques by consultants financed under Loan 939-PH (Second Ports Project)
and are capable of recalculating new tariffs. They will be assisted by
UNCTAD experts in establishing new tariffs for the international container
complex in Manila.
2.40      PPA's level of operating costs is reasonable.  Staffing is not
excessive; in fact government agencies are now required to hold costs at as
low a level as possible without unduly impairing efficiency. Current
staffing levels are now being reviewed by a team comprising experts from the
Presidential Reorganization Committee, the Ministry of Public Works and a
local firm of management consultants.
2.41      Recent government budgetary constraints required PPA to curtail
expenditure, particularly port maintenance on which only P 22 million
was expended in 1979 i.e., only 1.2% of gross fixed assets in service
(excluding land). Consequently, PPA's overall operating ratio in 1979 was a
low 53%. Maintenance expenditure and operating ratios are expected to rise
during 1980-86. Nevertheless the operating ratio is expected to range
between 57% and 68% with the exception of 1983 when the ratio will probably
slightly exceed 70%. These ratios indicate a satisfactory relationship
between expenditure and revenue.



- 19 -
Budget, Accounting and Audit
2.42      PPA prepares detailed annual operating and investment budgets in
commercial format which are approved by the board. In addition, since
January 1, 1978, PPA has prepared annual cash budgets in conformity with
Government budgetary regulations and quarterly cash budgets required to obtain
Budget Commission sanction for release of PPA funds from its Special Account
with the Treasury.
2.43      PPA's commercial accounting and costing systems were devised and
introduced with the assistance of consultants in 1977/78 financed under Loan
939-PH (Second Ports Project). The system works well except that financial
reporting to management needs to be improved (see para. 2.07).
2.44      PPA's governing decree provides for annual audit of the authority's
accounts by the Government's Commission on Audit. However, PPA may engage the
services of a private professional auditor or firm for the audit of its
accounts in fulfillment of international contractual commitments of the
authority. Since PPA's creation, the Commission on Audit has promptly and
satisfactorily audited PPA's accounts.  It was agreed during negotiations that
audited accounts for 1980 and thereafter be submitted to the Bank within six
months of each fiscal year end by auditors satisfactory to the Bank fpara.
6.02(d)].
2.45      PPA operates an Internal Control Department the head of which
reports directly to the General Manager. The Department comprises two review
and appraisal divisions, i.e., financial and operational management, employing
ten and seven staff respectively. The need for additional staff is being
reviewed (see para. 2.40).
3. INVESTMENT PLANI AND PROJECT
PPA's Investment Plan (1980-86)
3.01      PPA's current Investment Plan covers the period 1980-86, and
includes major and minor projects at national ports identified as suitable
for investment. The Plan is indicative only insofar as about 50% of
projected expenditure is concerned, relating to which neither feasibility
studies nor preliminary engineering have yet commenced. A brief summary of
the Plan and anticipated sources of finance are given below in Table 3.01.
For purposes of this appraisal it is assumed that total Plan expenditure
during 1980-84 on other national port projects will amount to US$110 million
i.e. 17% less than the Plan provides, in view of possible national budgetary
and project technical supervisory staff constraints. The plan excludes
capital works at municipal ports from which PPA does not derive any
revenues. Such works will be constructed by MPW and be financed by the
Government. Ownership of the municipal port assets after construction will
not be vested in PPA.



- 20 -
Table 3.01
PPA Investment Plan - 1980-86                     (US$ million equivalent)
Proposed Third Ports Project                                 165
Manila Port Project                                            96
Other National Port Projects                                 133
Purchase of Dredgers                                          54
Dredging Arrears                                               22
Total                                                   470
To be financed by:
IBRD Loan                                                   67
Other Foreign Loans - ports                                 59
- dredgers/cargo handling
equipment                         67
PEA Local Loan                                               6
PPA Internal Cash Generation                               179
Government Grants (equity)                                  92
Total                                                   470
3.02      During negotiations, PPA agreed not to make any substantial change
in the Plan except after consultation with the Bank. Substantial change is
defined as an increase of more than 10% of the estimated cost of planned
investments in any one year. It was also agreed that the Bank would be
consulted prior to any agreement for the purchase of craft or equipment
exceeding P 50 million [para. 6.02(e)].
The ProJect and the Proposed Loan
3.03      The proposed project is an integral part of the country's port
investment program prepared on the basis of the National Transport Systems
Study interim report issued in 1978. This report identified the project
ports as high priority candidates for expansion to help meet the projected
traffic growth at these ports until about 1990. The objectives of the
project are thus: (a) to increase the operating efficiency and throughput
capacity at these ports through the introduction of improved port management
and maintenance and the provision of additional berths and ancillary services;
and (b) to stimulate growth in the metropolitan areas of these important
secondary ports to support the Government's strategy of dispersing indus-
trial development away from Metropolitan Manila. By improving port opera-
tions and increasing port productivity through reduced congestion, cargo
losses and handling costs, the project would provide more economical means
of tranporting major agricultural commodities produced in the hinterland of
the project ports for domestic and foreign markets, and consumer goods



- 21 -
shipped from Manila for distribution in the influence areas of the project
ports. The resulting increase in commerce between the major domestic
markets near Metropolitan Manila and the project ports is expected to
stimulate the economy of the project ports and their hinterland.
3.04      The project's major beneficiaries are interisland ship operators
who have long suffered from inadequate port facilities with resultant slow
turnaround time and high port costs which normally amount to 30% of ship
operating costs. Increased berth throughput of cargo per meter of quay
reduces port costs per ton and permits more round voyages per ship per
year, and therefore fewer ships per route. The project will also encourage
further investment in container vessels with resultant lower per ton
shipping costs. Considering the high level of competition among ship
operators, a large portion of reduced operating costs is expected to be
passed on to shippers in the form of lower tariff or rebates, most of which
would be passed on to the ultimate consumers. Resource cost savings to the
country's economy are also considerable as the project would eliminate or
reduce unnecessary costs associated with port operations.
3.05      The proposed project is based upon findings of port feasibility
studies, financed under Loan 1048-PH (Shipping) and conducted by PPA and its
consultants as modified by the Bank's appraisal conducted in October 1979.
While it would have been desirable also to finance works at some minor
ports, it was generally felt by the government and the Bank that these have
a somewhat lower priority and given resource constraints and inadequate data
on required improvements, should not be included in the project.
Description of the Main Project Items
3.06      The project consists of:
(a) at the port of Cagayan de Oro (Map 14771);
(i)  415 m of quay extension with an alongside depth of 10.5 m
below MLLW, providing deep-water common user multipurpose
berths;
(ii)  one open transit shed 4,600 sq m for timber products storage
and export, and one container freight station-cum-transit
shed 5,500 sq m for the handling of container traffic;
(iii)  ancillary works including surface roads and open areas total-
ling about 46,000 sq m, services for water, electric supply,
lighting, sewerage and drainage, weighbridges, separate
access gate and security fencing;
(iv) engineering services for final engineering, bid evaluation
and award and supervision of construction;



- 22 -
(b) At the port of Cebu (lIap 14770):
(i)  dredging and disposal of about 460,000 cu m of spoil for the
provision of a deep water access navigation channel to a
depth of 9.5 m below MLLW;
(ii)  construction of 550 m of quay with an alongside depth of
9.5 m below MLLW, providing deep-water common user
multipurpose berths;
(iii)  one container freight station-cun-transit shed 7,800 sq m;
(iv)  ancillary works including surface roads and open areas total-
ling about 89,500 sq m, an administration building, equipment
and passenger sheds, and services for water, electric
supply, lighting, sewerage and drainage, weighbridges, access
gates and security fencing;
(v)  rehabilitation and upgrading of existing marginal quay
aprons and circulation roads, including provision of services
for water, electric supply, lighting, drainage and port
perimeter security fencing;
(vi) engineering services for final engineering, bid evaluation and
award and supervision of construction;
(c) at the Port of Iloilo (MIap 14772)
(i)  dredging of about 460,000 cu m of spoil, reclamation and fill
of about 946,000 cu m and dike works, for the provision of an
island wharf terminal;
(ii)  construction of 400 m of quay with an alongside depth of
10.5 m below MLLW, providing deepwater common user
multipurpose berths;
(iii)  one container freight station-cun-transit shed 6,000 sq m;
(iv)  ancillary works including surfaced roads and open areas
totalling about 77,000 sq m, an administration building, fire
station, and services for water, electric supply, lighting,
sewerage and drainage, weighbridges, access gate and security
fencing;
(v) engineering services for final engineering, bid evaluation and
award and supervision of construction;
(d) at the Port of Zamboanga (M4ap 14773R)
(i) dredging and reclamation of about 505,000 cu m of general
fill, and attendant dike works, in the proposed extension;



- 23 -
(ii) 220 m of quay extension with an alongside depth of 10 m below
MLLW, providing deep-water common user multipurpose berths;
(iii)  one container freight station-cum-transit shed 5,500 sq m;
(iv) ancillary works including surfaced roads and open areas
totalling about 100,400 sq m, an administration building,
fire station, amenities building for port labor, equipment
shed, an office block for Customs and relevant Government
agencies, and services for water, electric supply, lighting,
sewerage and drainage, weighbridges, access gate and security
fencing;
(v)  rehabilitation and repair of damaged sections of the existing
tee-head jetty;
(vi) addition of a new 50 m pier with mooring dolphins, a new
passenger waiting shed and an embarkation area at the
existing small craft ferry basin;
(vii)  engineering services for final engineering, bid evaluation
and award and supervision of construction;
(e) provision of external access roads for the ports of Cagayan de
Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga;
(f) technical assistance and training for:
(i)  siltation and hydrographic studies at the project ports of
Cebu and Iloilo and a study of seabed erosion at Cagayan de
Oro (Annex 1), a civil engineering adviser for the duration
of project construction, and staff training for MPW and PPA
engineers and for setting up a hydrographic survey unit
within PPA;
(ii) the study of the effect which increased container services
will have on the number, type and scheduling of vessels for
interisland passenger sea transport, and consequent national
port passenger facility development needs (Annex 1);
(iii)  feasibility studies including detailed engineering, required
for a future ports project (Annex 1); and
(iv) improving PPA's management information system (Annex 1).
(g) provision of essential mechanical cargo handling equipment for the
project ports.
Cost Estimates
3.07    Total cost of the project is estimated at I 1,204.7 million
(US$165 million equivalent) with a direct foreign exchange component of



- 24
US$68 million. Details of project cost estimates are given in Table 3.1A
and summarized in Table 3.02.
3.08    Cost estimates for civil works are based on final designs and unit
prices for ongoing similar works in the Philippines; those for mechanical
equipment are based on recent purchases. Estimates are in late 1979 prices,
and include price escalation and physical contingencies over the project
period. Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for civil works
items for all ports. Price contingencies are included for all procurement
items; assumed price increases are 16% for local costs and 10.5% for foreign
costs for 1980, 10% (local) and 9% (foreign) for 1981, 7% (local) and
8% (foreign) for 1982 and 7% for both from 1983 to 1985 for civil works.
Technical assistance is expected to involve 166 man-months of expatriate
and 112 man-months of local expertise; man-month costs, inclusive of air
fares and subsistence, are estimated at US$9,150 and US$3,500 respectively
(Table 3.2).
Table 3.02: PROJECT COST SUMM9ARY
US$ million           %
P million                 equivalent         Total
Particulars                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  cost
A. Port civil works         297.53  253.28   550.81  40.76  34.69    75.45    46
B. Access roads              18.26    7.54    25.80   2.50   1.03        3.53      2
C. Engineering and
supervision            20.42   29.51    49.93   2.80   4.04         6.84     4
D. Technical assistance
and training            8.76   16.79    25.55   1.20   2.30         3.50     2
E. Base cost estimate       344.97  307.12   652.09  47.26  42.06    89.32    54
F. Physical contingencies  32.03   26.39    58.42   4.39   3.62          8.01      5
G. Price contingencies    117.11   79.89   197.00  16.04  10.94    26.98    16
H.   Subtotal               494.11  413.40   907.51  67.69  56.62   124.31    75
I. Cargo handling
equipment /a           40.99   82.91   123.90   5.61  11.36    16.97    10
J. Land costs                41.00        -    41.00   5.62       -      5.62      4
K. Duties and taxes on
A and B               132.29        -   132.29  18.12        -    18.12    11
Total                 708.39  496.31 1,204.70  97.04  67.98   165.02   100
/a  Includes duties and taxes of US$1.18 million equivalent and price
contingencies of US$3.65 million.



- 25 -
Financing Plan
3.09    Financing of the project, estimated at US$165 million equivalent
with a foreign currency component of US$68 million, will be met as
follows:
Table 3.03: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Finance Source                           Amount including contingencies
(US$ million equivalent)
Foreign    Local   Total
IBRD loan                                         56.62    10.38   67.00
PPA                                                   -    78.34   78.34
Local loan - Cebu land                                       5.62    5.62
Government (part cost of access roads)                       2.70    2.70
Foreign Loan /a                                   11.36         -   11.36
Total                                          67.98    97.04  165.02
/a Funds are being sought by the Government and PPA.
3.10    PPA have already appointed consultants for detailed engineering.
Work began in October 1979 financed by funds from Loan 1048-PH (Shipping)
and is scheduled for completion in June 1980. It is proposed that the cost
of the final engineering, estimated at US$850,000 be retroactively financed
from the proposed Bank loan.
Project Implementation
3.11    It was agreed during negotiations that project construction will be
carried out by I4PW as agent of PPA, as required by existing law governing
PPA.  A small Project Executive Committee will be established by no later
than October 1, 1980 which shall include PPA representation. A PPA senior
engineer will be appointed Project Director. Both the committee and the
director will be responsible to the Minister of Public Works. The appoint-
ment of the Project Director and subordinate project management staff
comprising MPW and PPA senior engineers are all to be satisfactory to the
Bank [para. 6.01(f)]. The Project Director will be advised by an experienced
port engineer financed under the technical assistance category of the
proposed loan. Project construction supervision and site management staff



- 26 -
will be assisted by consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank, upon terms
and conditions, including provision for training engineering personnel
satisfactory to the Bank [para. 6.01(g)]. The appointment of foreign and/or
local consultants/advisors for technical assistance and training shall also
be upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank [para. 6.02(f)].
Procurement and Disbursement
3.12      The project civil works would be executed under not more than four
civil engineering contracts, to be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. The Government
intends to levy import duties on items procured for the project.
3.13      In order to accelerate the construction of civil works to be done
under contract, and also to take advantage of favorable world prices of
certain items of equipment (e.g. weighbridges) and materials (e.g. steel
piles and structural sections) which are part of the civil works, the
Government intends to consider making early procurement of such directly
imported items common to the civil works of tle project ports. For this
purpose a notional sum of US$1.5 million will be provided as a separate
category in the schedule of withdrawals of the proceeds of the loan in the
Loan Agreement. The Government will seek the prior approval of the Bank on
the specific items prior to procurement. Disbursements will be 100% of
foreign expenditures for such directly imported items.
3.14      The works are expected to be completed by the second quarter of
1984, assuming effectiveness of the proposed loan by October 1, 1980. The
construction schedules shown in Charts 21269/70 have been agreed with PPA.
3.15      Disbursement for project civil works would be on the basis of 48%
of total costs net of taxes. For consulting services, disbursement would be
on the basis of actual cost; if local consultants are employed, disbursement
would be for 100% of local costs. Disbursements by the Bank are expected to
be completed by June 30, 1985. The estimated schedule of quarterly
disbursements, given in Table 3.3 is based on the assumption that the
proposed loan would become effective by October 1, 1980.
3.16      Cargo handling equipment is to be procured by PPA with the aid of
a foreign loan now being sought by the Government and PPA. After purchase,
PPA intends to lease the equipment to arrastre companies and has undertaken
to inform the Bank of the terms of the lease.
Ecology
3.17      None of the proposed works will affect the existing ecology of the
ports; reclamation dredging is envisaged for land-fill at the project sites
for Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga. In Cebu, most of the overlying
layers on the sea bottom to be dredged out for the new approach channel are



- 27 -
not suitable as reclamation fill. Unsuitable dredged material will be
disposed of well outside the port area to designated areas of tidal flats on
Mactan Island, some 4 km away. Any suitable land-fill material found in the
course of such dredging will be deposited in the future extension area north
of the present project site.
3.18      The project ports do not handle or transfer crude oil or petroleum
products, these being handled by oil companies at their specialized private
installations located well away from the public ports.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Traffic
General
4.01      Separate traffic forecasts were prepared for passengers, major
commodities and commodity groups at each project port. Among commodity
projections, those for grain took into account production, consumption,
grain surpluses and/or deficits in the hinterland of project ports, while
projections of general cargo, including miscellaneous consumer goods,
relied on income elasticity of demand indicators available for current
household budget surveys. Impacts of economic programs and projects were
considered in projecting export and agricultural and industrial inputs. Base
year data for passenger traffic was adjusted for underreporting and projected
based on revised June 1979 population forecasts.



- 28 -
4.02      Both cargo and passenger forecasts relied on port area statistics
and route-specific origin/destination data. Efforts have been made to
reconcile projections of major commodities known to move between the project
ports, taking into account the interport and intermodal competition for port
cargo. The projected passenger and commodity flows have been adapted to the
needs of port capacity analysis and project evaluation by classifying them
according to direction, handling characteristics and port facilities.
Detailed forecasts were prepared up to 1990; generalized projections were
used thereafter.
Cagavan de Oro
4.03      In 1978 the port of Cagayan de Oro handled 630,000 tons of cargo and
583,000 passengers. Over 1.3 million tons of cargo and 1.1 million
passengers are expected to move through the port in 1990 (Table 4.1). Not
included in these totals for lack of concrete commitments by a fruit
packing company, is nearly 300,000 tons of potential container traffic
now handled over the company's own inadequate facilities across the bay
from the port of Cagayan de Oro.
4.04      Domestic commerce, mostly consumer goods, accounts for 83% of the
total port traffic. Corn shipped to the Cebu region is the single most
important product; the eventual need for bulk storage and handling
facilities is being considered by PPA and the National Grain Authority.
Foreign trade, 105,000 tons in 1978, will grow rapidly on the strength of
export of wood products and new commodities such as cassava chips, sugar and
chromite.
4.05      Container cargo, both domestic and foreign, as a percentage of
total port traffic, will expand from 9% in 1979 to 36% in 1990. Even without
the potential container traffic referred to above, Cagayan de Oro alone among
the project ports has a significant volume of outward container cargoes which
will attract container vessels seeking return cargo.
Cebu
4.06      After Manila, Cebu is the most important public port and serves as
the distribution center of general cargo for the Visayas region. It also
receives large volumes of grain from Mindanao to supplement its own
production. Its foreign trade is now mostly transshipped via Manila but
much of it will divert to Cebu when the new container terminal is constructed.
4.07      The port handled 2.3 million tons of cargo and 3.5 million
passengers in 1978. These totals are expected to reach 4.6 million tons and
6.9 million passengers by 1990 (Table 4.2).
4.08      Virtually all goods using the port are handled as general cargo.
Container traffic, at 174,000 tons in 1978, is small but growing rapidly
despite the lack of specialized handling and storage facilities. It is



- 29 -
projected to reach 1.8 million tons by 1990. Without the project container-
ization will level off at about 500,000 tons annually.
4.09       Separate traffic forecasts are provided in Table 4.2 for the
rehabilitation of the existing quay and for the proposed container and
foreign trade terminal, the two main components of the Cebu port project.
Iloilo
4.10       The port of Iloilo is a domestic river port, with a wharf
located in the straits serving both foreign and domestic traffic, and
anchorage facilities. In 1978, the port handled nearly 1.1 million tons of
cargo and 1.8 million passengers; this is expected to increase to 1.8
million tons of cargo and 3.2 million passengers by 1990 (Table 4.3).
4.11      Already an important foreign trade port, Iloilo will handle sub-
stantially higher volumes of sugar and its byproducts from new refineries in
its hinterland. Sharp increases are also expected in grain and mineral
exports. Construction materials, grains and consumer goods will continue to
dominate domestic seaborne commerce. There is a twice-daily passenger ferry
service to nearby Bacolod, and Iloilo is also linked by regular passenger
services to all major ports in the Philippines.
Zamboanga
4.12       This port serves several related functions including:  (a) collec-
tion and distribution of cargo to the neighboring islands; (b) connection
to other coastal urban centers of Mindanao; (c) stopover point for
interisland vessels plying between Manila and the ports of southeastern
Mindanao; and (d) terminal for local, coastal and interisland passenger
travel.
4.13       The port handled 670,000 tons of cargo and 1,666,000 passengers in
1978, which is projected to rise to 1.2 million tons of cargo and 3.2
million passengers by 1990 (Table 4.4). Both cargo and passenger forecasts
are based on Government expectations that conditions in the region which,
until recently, has been troubled by civil disorders will remain stable.
4.14       Virtually all (99% in 1978) seaborne cargo is domestic; foreign
commerce is limited to barter trade with neighboring countries. Incoming
copra and cereals are the two most important products and accounted for 42%
of the total in 1978. The rest consists of a wide range of consumer
products and general cargo.
4.15       Approximately one half of passenger traffic is handled by an
efficiently operated ferry service to nearby Isabela Island. Frequent
passenger services are also available to outlying islands of the Sulu
Archipelago, points along the coast of Mindanao and major ports elsewhere
in the Philippines.



- 30 -
B. Benefits
General
4.16      Quantifiable benefits attributed to proposed improvements in
project ports will consist of all or some of the following:
(a) ship time savings;
(b) avoidable cargo diversion costs;
(c) avoidable lighterage costs;
(d) lower cargo handling costs; and
(e) decrease in cargo losses including damages to containers.
Considering the high level of competition among ship operators, shippers
would benefit from reduced operating costs in the form of lower tariffs or
rebates, most of which would be passed on to the ultimate consumers.
4.17 (a) Ship Time Savings
These include both the reduction in ship time while awaiting berth
and lower "at berth" time due to improved cargo handling productivity.
Estimates of ship time in port with and without the project were obtained
through the simulation of observed and expected values of operational
variables for different levels and composition of port traffic.
4.18      Ship waiting and service time savings are estimated by weighing
representative values of major ship types using project ports. These
values, range from P 4,700 per day for small passenger-cargo vessels to
P 51,000 per day for foreign container feeder vessels. Higher than
representative values were used for domestic container ships in Cebu and
lower than representative values for foreign and domestic general cargo
ships at Zamboanga.
4.19      The appraisal also considered distribution of ship time savings
between domestic and foreign carriers. At present, three of the four project
ports are served regularly by foreign ships. Some homogeneous products such
as fertilizer, molasses, sugar and minerals are carried by charter or tramp
vessels whose costs can be negotiated to reflect proposed port improvements.
However, growing volumes of general cargo, bagged sugar and wood products
are or will be shipped in foreign liner and container ships. It is assumed
that only 50% of ship time benefits accruing to foreign owned general cargo
and container vessels will be recaptured by the country while all the ship
time benefits for domestic vessels and charter foreign vessels accrue to the
country.
(b) Avoidable Cargo Diversion Costs
4.20      The expected growth in project ports will be accompanied by
increases in ship waiting time and cost. As these costs become excessive,



- 31 -
ship owners will divert to other nearby and less congested ports when the
average cost of ship turnaround time in a project port exceeds the cost of
diversion and turnaround time in the port to which the ship will divert.
If this alternative is not available or leads, in time, to unesceptable
congestion delays and costs in the receiving port, shipowners will resort
to lighterage to minimize their costs.
4.21      The cost of ship diversion to other ports includes land transport
cost and ship delays in receiving ports which are directly attributable to
diverted traffic./l In the case of Iligan (para 4.29), the port which would
relieve congestion at Cagayan de Oro, there will also be need for otherwise
avoidable dredging in the berthing area.
(c) Avoidable Lighterage Costs
4.22      The lighterage system devised for economic evaluation is one that
minimizes the per ton cost of lightering. The optimization is attained by
applying trade-offs (a) between the annual cost of additional barges and the
annual cost of ship waiting time at anchorage and (b) between the annual cost
of an additional lighter berth and the annual waiting time costs of barges
queuing for a berth. The cost of this system is then adjusted by including
ship service and waiting time to obtain total lighterage cost estimates.
These costs, calculated for different traffic volumes, are presented in
Table 4.5. The net difference between the lighterage and improved port
costs represents avoidable lighterage cost savings attributable to the
project.
(d) Cargo Handling Savings
4.23      Cargo handling productivity varies for different project ports
depending on available facilities and equipment, composition of cargo and
ship traffic and the level of on-the-wharf congestion. Base year data on
cargo handling rates, adjusted to reflect expected changes in the above
variables, are summarized in Table 4.6.
4.24      The table also shows changes in cargo handling rates resulting from
the project. The proposed port improvements will be followed by significant
increases in cargo handling productivity in all ports except Cagayan de Oro,
already operating efficiently as a result of recent improvements financed
under Loan 939-PH (Second Ports Project).
4.25      Cargo handling rates have been converted to cargo handling costs
to estimate savings attributable to the project, using an estimated cost of
P 170 per gang hour for container and P 110 per gang hour for general
/1 Diversion costs to the ships are minimal, or negative, and in most cases
may be avoided.



- 32 -
cargo operations. The labor component of cargo handling cost has been
adjusted by shadow pricing unskilled labor costs at 80% of their market
price.
(e) Cargo Loss Savings
4.26      According to present estimates, cargo losses in project ports
range from P 8.4 per ton to P 14.0 per ton for conventional cargo and
from P 1.7 per ton to P 2.7 per ton for container cargo. The value of
cargo shipped via the project ports is estimated at P 2,320 per ton. For
conventional cargo 50% of the loss is due to pilferage, 25% due to handling
and another 25% due to spoilage from lack of adequate storage. Similar loss
allocation for container cargo is 10% for pilferage, 90% for handling and
none for storage. In addition, repair costs of container damages average
P 5.5 per ton of container cargo.
4.27      Proposed improvements will reduce cargo losses by:  (a) providing
paved and/or sheltered areas for storage of perishable products (e.g.
grain); (b) increasing the volume of container transport less vulnerable to
cargo losses through handling, storage and pilferage; (c) reducing
on-the-wharf congestion; and (d) increasing port security (fencing, lights,
limited access) and eliminating double handling of lightered cargo. The
availability of specialized cranes in Cebu will reduce damage to containers
handled in that port. Estimates of cargo losses with and without proposed
improvements in project ports are presented in Table 4.7.
Cagayan de Oro: Benefits
4.28      Traffic growth at the port of Cagayan de Oro has exceeded all
expectations and there are indications of continued strong growth ahead
(Table 4.4). Since Cagayan de Oro is already one of the best managed public
ports in the Philippines, the opportunities for capacity increases through
operational improvements are limited. If additional berths and shore
facilities under this project are not built, the port will become fully
congested by 1983.
4.29      To minimize ensuing waiting time costs, the shipowners will divert
their ships to nearby less congested ports and, later, resort to lighterage.
Initially traffic will be diverted, on a space available basis, to nearby
privately owned general cargo berths. This will be accompanied by diversion
to the more distant public port of Iligan, which will require some dredging
to accommodate diverted traffic. By 1988, Iligan too, will become fully
congested. Congestion relief benefits to Iligan's own traffic have not been
included in project benefits because of: (a) lack of adequate knowledge
regarding ship traffic in that port; and (b) uncertainty regarding the port's
future dredging policy. It is estimated that inclusion of these benefits
would raise the economic rate of return from 29% to 31%.



- 33 -
4.30      The project will reduce ship waiting time and eliminate the need
for less efficient and more costly alternative solutions described above.
It will also result in minor cargo handling and cargo loss savings - minor
because the port already operates efficiently and with due regard for safety
and security. Project benefits are summarized in Table 4.8; the analysis of
options available to shipowners to minimize ship waiting time costs is
presented in Table 4.9.
Cebu Benefits
4.31      The project consists of a new container and foreign trade terminal
and the rehabilitation, including paving, widening and fencing of some
1,100 m of the existing general cargo quay. The new terminal will reduce
service time and handling cost of foreign and container ships and their
cargo. It will accelerate containerization of domestic breakbulk cargo and
divert foreign container cargo now transshipped via Manila, to Cebu with
ensuing savings in cargo handling costs and losses. Minor ship waiting time
savings will be realized during the early years of the project.
4.32      The principal benefits of the paving, widening and fencing of the
existing general quay will come from lower cargo handling costs and cargo
losses due to damage and pilferage./I The project will also result in a
more balanced distribution of cargo handling activities throughout the port
area.
4.33      A summary of project benefits is presented in Table 4.10.  Table
4.2 shows estimates of project-induced containerization and diversion of
port traffic.
Iloilo: Benefits
4.34      Lighterage already supplements deepwater berth facilities in
Iloilo. This trend will accelerate rapidly in the near-term future due
to the continued siltation in the river, berthing preference in the foreign
port for passenger and container traffic and the expected growth in port
traffic./2 It is estimated that by 1984 virtually all deepwater cargo
traffic except containers will be lightered.
/1 The unpaved quay section is used by small vessels whose opportunity cost
of time is low as evidenced by the fact that many stay in the port longer
than required for cargo handling operations. Because of this, ship ser-
vice time savings resulting from the project will be largely illusory
and has not been considered in the appraisal.
12 Diversion to other ports is not a viable alternative for Iloilo. Culasi,
the nearest public port accessible by reliable land transport, is located
120 kms away, is subject to heavy siltation and has litle spare capacity
for diverted cargo.



- 34 -
4.35      Existing river berths can be used to handle part of the projected
lighter traffic.  However, substantial investments will be needed for
barges, tugboats and service craft. Lighterage operations require double
handling of cargo and incur high cargo losses due to damage and pilferage.
The project will help avoid some of those cargo lighterage costs and reduce
others.
4.36      The project will also reduce service time and handling cost of
existing container traffic and stimulate containerization of domestic general
cargo thereby ensuring savings in cargo handling costs and losses. The
relocation of the port to a new site will provide relief to city traffic
congestion and bring the port closer to the sources of major agricultural
and mineral exports and of demand for agricultural inputs./l Project
benefits are summarized in Table 4.11.
Zamboanga Benefits
4.37      The present deepwater port is woefully inadequate for the handling
and storage of cargo. The narrow tee-head jetty with ships berthed on both
sides suffers from chronic congestion limiting the access by trucks and the
use of port equipment. There are no nearby storage facilities and cargo
losses due to damage and pilferage are high. Because of space constraints,
cargo and ship productivity are low and the prospects for operational
improvements are limited. Indeed, since the port is working close to its
practical capacity, port productivity is expected to deteriorate further as
the volume of deepwater traffic continues to grow.
4.38      The project is specifically designed to improve the productivity
of larger breakbulk ships and to attract container traffic./2 By expanding
and improving cargo handling and storage facilities, the project will reduce
ship turnaround time and lower cargo handling costs and cargo losses. It
will also eliminate the need for diversion of cargo to the nearby private
ports and for eventual recourse to lighterage. Project benefits are
summarized in Table 4.12. The analysis of options available to shipowners to
minimize ship waiting time costs is shown in Table 4.13.
4.39      The cargo handling and storage areas for the new project will
require relocation of some shallow draft berths used by local, predominantly
passenger launch traffic. Substitute facilities have been provided as part
of this project elsewhere in the port area. However, long-term future needs
/1 Relocation benefits have not been considered in the economic evaluation
of the project.
/2 Smaller, shallow draft vessels cope with congestion by doublebanking and
herring-bone style berthing. These measures are not practical for
larger vessels using ship's gear for cargo handling.



- 35 -
of passenger transport in this and other project ports have not been studied
and are not known. The project includes funds for a study of sea passenger
transport and for feasibility studies for a fourth ports project (para 3.04).
C. Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
Project Costs for Economic Evaluation
4.40      Engineering cost estimates were adjusted for economic evaluation
as follows: (a) price contingencies, taxes and duties have been excluded;
(b) an annual maintenance cost of 2% has been assumed for civil works and
7.5% for equipment; (c) a project life of 25 years was used for civil works
except land assumed to have infinite life; the useful life of container
handling equipment has been set at 15 years and other equipment at 10 years;
and (d) unskilled labor cost has been shadow-priced at 80% of the market
cost. These costs are summarized in Table 4.14.
Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity
4.41      An economic rate of return has been computed for each project
port. In Cebu, where the project's two main components - the container and
foreign trade terminal and the quay rehabilitation - are functionally
independent of each other, separate rates of return have been also computed
for each component.
4.42      The resulting rates of return are shown below.  They range from
17% for Cebu's container and foreign trade terminal to 45% for Iloilo's new
deepwater facilities. All project components are economically viable and
eligible for Bank financing. The entire project shows a return of 30%.
4.43      Common elements of uncertainty in project appraisal such as cost
overruns and benefit shortfalls, evaluated at levels of 15% and 25%, are
also shown in the Table. In neither case do they alter conclusions
regarding the project's economic viability.
4.44      Risks associated with the relocation of people occupying
the proposed project site at Cagayan de Oro have been minimized by the
city government's advanced arrangements for relocation to an available
alternative site. Special organizational and staffing arrangements to be
made for project control and supervision, utilizing experienced MPW and PPA
engineers to work with MPW, all to the satisfaction of the Bank, is expected
to ensure avoidance of implementation delays experienced in the previous
BPW-implemented port project.



- 36 -
Table 4.01: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Combined 15%
Best         Cost         Benefit      cost overrun
judgment    overruns       shortfall    15% benefit
Project component         IRR      15%    25%   15%       25%    shortfall
Total project               30      27      25    26       24         24
Cagayan de Oro              29      27      26    27/a    25/a        24
Cebu
Combined project         21       18      17    18       16         16
Container terminal        17      15      14    15       13         13
Quay rehabilitation       33      29      28    29       26         26
Iloilo                      45      40      38    40       36         36
Zamboanga                   25      23      21    22       20         20
/a  Additional benefits are expected for reasons explained in para. 4.29
4.44      The sensitivity of the project rate of return has been also
subjected to the switch value analysis at the 12% opportunity cost of
capital.  The results of this analysis summarized below show the range within
which actual costs and benefits can deviate from estimated levels without
threatening the project's economic viability. In the case of Cebu container
terminal project, the range of admissible error is relatively modest in part
because the "without" the project scenario assumes the completion of the quay
rehabilitation project.
Table 4.02: SWITCH VALUE ANALYSIS
Switch values
Project component                                      Costs     Benefits
Cagayan                                                +245%         -71%
Cebu
Combined project                                    + 72%          -42%
Container terminal                                  + 41%          -29%
Quay rehabilitation                                 +220%          -69%
Iloilo                                                 +356%         -78%
Zamboanga                                              +147%         -59%
4.45      Except for Zamboanga and quay rehabilitation at Cebu, the appro-
priateness of project size has been measured by computing at varying interest
rates the net present value of the proposed project and a reduced project,
i.e. one berth less. The results are shown below:



- 37 -
Table 4.03: NET PRESENT VALUE
Cebu
Interest          Cagayan         Container terminal          Iloilo
rate      eroposed   Reduced  Proposed   Reduced  Proposed   Reduced
in million pesos ---------------------
10         496         307        182          44      899        572
12         367         224        111           5      712        455
15         234         136         37        -36       511        329
20         105          49        -36        -77       304        197
In all cases the results favor the proposed project.  To further verify
project size, the economic rate of return was calculated for a reduced project
resulting as follows: Cagayan de Oro 25%; Cebu Container Terminal 12%; Iloilo
42%. These rates are lower than the anticipated rates for the proposed
project as shown in Table 4.01 above. Zamboanga was excluded because any
reduction in project size would reduce total quay length below that already
existing. In the case of quay rehabilitation at Cebu, a reduction in project
size would perpetuate present chronically slow cargo operations and conjested
wharves.
5. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
General
5.01      Although operational for only three years, PPA has already
accumulated cash resources totalling about US$53 million from its operations.
Relatively little investment in port development was made by PPA during this
short consolidation period, nor was much maintenance work (especially
dredging, some three years in arrears) accomplished. Capital improvements are
urgently needed at Manila, the four project ports, and at numerous smaller
ports. Consequently, during the period 1980-84, it is anticipated that PPA
will expend US$447 million in port development, backlog dredging and technical
assistance (para. 3.01). To help meet this cost, loans totalling US$36
million have already been negotiated with the ADB and the Federal Republic of
West Germany for container berths at Mlanila. Further loans, totalling US$67
million are expected to be received from the Federal Republic of West Germany
and Japan for the purchase of dredgers and cargo handling equipment and a loan
of nearly US$6 million has been obtained from the Philippine Estate Authority
for land in Cebu. Provided an IBRD Third Ports Project loan of US$67 million
is approved, and the Government contributes equity to PPA totalling about
US$92 million, PPA should be able to accomplish the Investment Plan and
maintain cash in hand of about US$13 million, sufficient to meet monthly
recurrent expenses and payments due to project contractors. It is assumed
that the Government's equity contribution would be in respect of dredging
backlog costs (US$22 million); and national port improvements (US$70 million).



- 38 -
5.02      This scenario assumes PPA will meet US$179 million (i.e., 40%) of
the Investment Plan from net income of port operations. To do so would
require port tariff increases in 1981 and 1984 yielding additional overall
revenues of about 45% in 1981 and an additional 25% in 1984. However, higher
increases at modernized ports are envisaged (e.g. 50% and 35%) and lower
increases at partially and nonmodernized ports. As mentioned earlier (para.
2.39) many existing port tariff rates are extremely low and there should be
little difficulty in justifying increases of the required magnitude. Further
details are given in para. 5.06 and Table 5.1 which lists key financial
assumptions used in forecasting. PPA's loan agreement with ADB requires a
financial return on average net fixed assets in use of about 5% in 1981-83 and
7% in 1984 and thereafter. Calculations made by ADB in July 1979 indicated
that, to achieve these targets, tariff increases in 1981 and 1984 would need
to yield 60% and 25% additional revenues respectively. ADB's forecasts rely
on a lower traffic base than that used in this appraisal. Furthermore, ADB
has classified PPA formation expenses amortization as operational expenditure.
5.03      Past and future financial performances of the project ports will
next be examined, followed by consolidated results for all PPA ports.
Present and Future Financial Performance - Project Ports
5.04      Income and expenditure accounts for 1978-86 for Cagayan de Oro,
Cebu, Iloilo and Zamboanga are given in Tables 5.2 to 5.5 respectively.
Summarized comparative data are given below for 1979 and 1986.
Table 5.01
1979 (estimate)                        1986 (forecast)
Net                                 Net
Operating  Operating  operating   Operating  Operating  operating
Project port   revenue   expenses    revenue         revenue   expenses    revenue
----------------------- (in million pesos) ----------------------
Cagayan de Oro   7.01        3.64         3.37        22.80       12.90       9.90
Cebu             11.81       8.50         3.31        39.20       31.14        8.06
Iloilo            8.20       6.04         2.16        26.08       20.04       6.04
Zamboanga         3.90       2.62         1.28        11.90        9.64        2.26
5.05      Operating ratios at Cebu, Iloilo and Zamboanga range between 61%
and 81% during 1981-86, (i.e. subsequent to the initial tariff increase).
Operating ratios of Cagayan de Oro are considerably lower, ranging between
37% and 57% as revenue from vessels and cargo utilizing nearby private
facilities currently yields about P 4 million annually, which is about
P 2.5 million more than at other project ports.



- 39 -
5.06       Projected revenues are based on traffic forecasts in Tables 2.1 and
4.1 to 4.4 and assume a 45% overall port tariff increase on January 1, 1981
and a further 25% increase on January 1, 1984. Tariff increase are expected
to be partly related to port improvements; consequently only rlEdest rate
increases have been assumed at ports which are not expected to benefit from
capital investments and related productivity improvements. Forecast operating
expenses allow for a 10% annual rate of inflation. Staff costs take into
account annual increments. Depreciation charges from 1979 onwards are
equivalent to about 3% of gross fixed assets, excluding land. Prior to 1979
depreciation charges were higher (over 4% of gross fixed assets) due to an
excessively short estimated life basis used; corrections were made and agreed
with ADB during 1979. Key financial assumptions used in forecasting are given
in Table 5.1.
5.07      As Manila contributes some 60% of PPA's net operating revenue,
this port's financial forecasts are also given (Table 5.6) the results of
which are also satisfactory, with operating ratios during 1981-86 ranging
between 51% and 64%. To complete PPA's financial picture and permit the
preparation of consolidated accounts for all PPA operations, financial
forecasts for PPA's other national ports combined are given in Table 5.7.
The table shows lower but reasonable overall operating ratios, between 1981
and 1986 ranging from 75% to 89%.
PPA Consolidated Financial Performance
5.08      PPA's consolidated income and expenditure account for 1978-86,
detailed in Table 5.8, is summarized below for alternate years during the
forecast period:
Table 5.02: SUMMARY PPA INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
1980       1982       1984       1986
(in million pesos)--------
Operating revenue                                 263        427        714        813
Less:  Operating expenses                         175        289        404        489
Net operating revenue                              88        138        310        324
Nonoperating income                                26         15          7          8
Less:  Amortization of pre-
operating expenses                         33         33          -          -
Less:  Amortization of dredging
arrears                                     -          -         40         40
Less:  Technical assistance                         -         13          -          -
Less:  Interest charges                             9         41         77         88
Net income                                         72         66        200        204
Operating ratio (%)                                67         68         57         60
Interest charge coverage (times)                11.0        2.7        3.1        2.7
Debt service coverage (times)                     9.0        4.0        3.1        2.3
Return on average net fixed assets
in use                                         4.7        5.9        8.6        7.2



- 40 -
5.09      Table 5.8 indicates that interest charges and total debt service are
adequately covered during the period under review. Operating ratios are
satisfactory and a rate of return of at least 5% is achieved between 1981 and
1983 and at least 7% in 1984 onwards, all as required under the ADB loan (see
para. 5.02).
5.10      PPA's consolidated balance sheet for 1978-86, given in Table 5.9
is summarised below for alternate years:
Table 5.03
Summary PPA                1980     1982      1984      1986
Consolidated Balance Sheet        ------ (in million pesos) -----
Current assets                       305       153       165       163
Less:  Current liabilities             56      141        69       104
Net working capital                   249       12        96        59
Net fixed assets                   2,136    3,541    4,470    5,065
Other assets                           81      172        93        14
Total assets                  2.466    3.725    4,659    5.138
Long-term loans                       193    1,032    1,307    1,374
Equity                             2,273    2,693    3,352    3,764
Total debt and equity         2.466    3,725    4.659    5,138
Current ratio (times)                5.4       1.1       2.4       1.5
Debt/equity ratio                   8/92    27/73    28/72    27/73
5.11      Table 5.9 shows that PPA's working capital and debt/equity ratio
position are expected to be satisfactory throughout the period. The current
ratio never falls below 1.1 and the highest debt/equity ratio is a satisfac-
tory 30/70.
5.12      A consolidated cash flow forecast for 1979-86 is given in
Table 5.10. The forecasts are summarized below for the investment period
1980-84:



- 41 -
Table 5.04
Summary PPA                     1980-84          %
Consolidated Cash Flow Forecast    (in million pesos)
Cash generated by PPA                       1,604
Less:  Debt service                           298
Less: Noncash working
capital increase                        2
1,304         40
Borrowings:
IBRD proposed loan                         489
Other foreign loans                         764
Local loans                                  41
1,294         40
Government equity contribution                670         20
Total funds available               3 268         100
Funds needed for investment:
Proposed Third Ports project             1,140
Other port projects                      1,507
Purchase of dredgers                        395
Port access roads                            40
3,082         94
Dredging arrears                              160           5
Technical assistance/training                  26           1
Total investment funds
reguired                          3,268         100
5.13      In order for PPA to achieve its financial objectives and ensure the
success of its financing plan, PPA agreed during negotiations to ensure that
its tariffs will be cost-related and consistent with sound business,
financial and port operation practices. To this end, PPA agreed that its
tariffs shall be appropriately adjusted, in consultation with the Bank, the
first such adjustment to occur not later than January 1, 1981, in order to
achieve a rate of return on average net fixed assets in use of not less than
5% in 1981, 1982 and 1983 and not less than 7% in 1984 and thereafter



- 42 -
[para. 6.02(g)].  PPA further agreed (a) not to incur new debt if net
revenue falls below 1.75 times maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year [para. 6.02(h)]; and (b) not to increase the
estimated cost of the Investment Plan by more than 10% of the planned
investment in any fiscal year without prior consultation with the Bank
(para. 6.02(e)]. PPA also undertook not to enter into craft or equipment
purchase agreements exceeding P 50 million in value without prior
consultation with the Bank [(para. 6.02(e)].
5.14      PPA's existing fixed assets are either new or were revalued in
1976/77 and early rev,aluation is considered unnecessary. With the implemen-
tation of the Investment Plan, more than two thirds of PPA's value of fixed
assets in 1984 will relate to new facilities; consequently no estimate of
revaluation is included in PPA's forecasts. The Loan Agreement contains a
covenant requiring assets to be revalued at least once every five years in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained valuation methods (PPA has
agreed to an identical covenant with ADB). PPA assured the Bank during
negotiations that the first such revaluation will occur no later than 1984
[para. 6.02(i)I.
5.15      During negotiations, PPA also agreed to provide for insurance for
such risks and in such amounts as are consistent with good commercial
practice [para. 6.02(j)].
Sensitivity Analysis
5.16      The following table shows the resultant decline in cash available
to PPA during 1981-84 in the event of: (a) operating expenses exceeding
estimates by 10% annually; (b) revenues falling by 10% annually due to
lower than forecast traffic growth; and (c) proposed project costs increasing
by 10% overall. The table also indicates the effect of counter measures to
increase cash availability by (d) reducing minor port investments by 18%;
(e) increasing Government grants by 18%; and (f) increasing tariffs by an
additional 10% in 1981. All of these measures are considered feasible. As
an alternative to all of the above counter measures, if PPA borrowed from
Government a loan of P 374 million covering the entire four-year cash
deficit arising from the sensitivity assumptions, PPA's debt/equity ratio
would only rise to a maximum of 34/66 (in 1983), which is satisfactory.



- 43 -
Table 5.05
1981   1982   1983   1984
Sensitivity Analysis                            (in million pesos)
(a)  10% increase in operating expenses             18      21     23      26
(b)  10% reduction in revenue as a result
of lower traffic growth                        40      43     46      71
(c)  10% inrease in proposed project costs          23      37     34      10
Subtotal                             81    101    103    107
Less reduction in variable operating
expenses resulting from lower traffic (d)    4          4      5       5
Total decline in cash available                77      97     98    102
(d)  20% reduction in minor port investments        30      20     30      40
(e)  18% increase in Government grants              19      47     36      22
(f)  10% additional tariff increase                 28      30     32      40
Total increase in cash available          77     97      98    102
PPA does not levy any fees on passengers embarked or disembarked.  A charge
of two pesos per head (US 27 cents) would realize P 30 million annually
on the basis of currently underreported ships' manifest, equivalent to
one-third of the cash deficit arising from sensitivity assumptions. The
average single journey passenger fare between Mlanila and Cebu is P 107 and
between Manila and Cagayan de Oro is P 133.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED ATD RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement has been reached with the Government that it will:
(a)  cause relocation satisfactory to the Bank of occupants now
occupying space at the project site at Cagayan de Oro
by no later than June 30, 1980 (para. 2.10);
(b)  acquire the right of way and construct port access roads, in
accordance with agreed construction schedules at Cagayan de Oro
(para. 2.13), Iloilo (para. 2.21) and Zamboanga (para. 2.23);



- 44 -
(c) cause the removal of wrecks in the proposed access channel to
the project at Cebu (para. 2.16);
(d) relocate a fishing vessel anchorage at Zamboanga by no later
than June 30, 1981 (para. 2.23);
(e) cause PPA to determine the number of arrastre firms to operate
at project ports in consultation with the Bank (para. 2.38);
(f) establish a Project Executive Committee and appoint project
management staff satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.11); and
(g) appoint consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11).
6.02      Agreement has been reached with PPA that it will:
(a) discuss proposed major organizational structure changes with
the Bank prior to implementation (para. 2.06);
(b) agree with the Bank suitable operational targets for the project
ports by no later than December 31, 1981 (para. 2.07);
(c) conduct siltation observations and review maintenance dredging
requirements at Cebu no later than December 31, 1982 (para. 2.15);
(d) submit audited accounts to the Bank within six months of each
fiscal year end by auditors satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.44);
(e) not undertake any change in the Investment Plan exceeding 10% of
the planned investment in any fiscal year without prior
consultation with the Bank; and not enter into craft or equipment
purchase agreements exceeding P 50 million in value without
prior consultation with the Bank (para. 3.02);
(f) appoint consultants acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(g) earn agreed financial rates of return and adjust tariffs, in con-
sultation with the Bank, by no later than January 1, 1981 (para.
5.13);
(h) not incur new debt if net revenue falls below 1.75 times maximum
debt service (para. 5.13);
(i) revalue its fixed assets at least once every five years
(para. 5.14); and
(j) provide for satisfactory insurance coverage (para. 5.15).



- 45 -
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$67 million
equivalent to the Government for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years. The Government would relend the loan to PPA on Bank
terms with an undertaking by PPA that it shall bear all foreign exchange
risks related to the proposed project.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to-Implement StudyRecommendations
1. SILTATION EROSION AND HYDROGRAPHIC STUDIES
(a) Assisting PPA in the establishment of a hydrographic division.
(b) Assisting PPA's hydrographic division in completing (i) siltation
studies at Cebu and Iloilo by December 31, 1982 to determine
a suitable conservancy program for these ports; and (ii) a study of
sea bed erosion of Cagayan de Oro.
2. INTERISLAND PASSENGER SEA TRANSPORT STUDY
Assisting PPA in completing by June 30, 1982, a study of the
effect which increased container services will have on the number,
type, and scheduling of vessels for interisland passenger sea transport,
and consequent national port passenger facility development needs.
3. FEASIBILITY STUDIES FOR A FUTURE PORT PROJECT
(a) Assisting PPA in completing by December 31, 1982 port feasibility
studies of major national ports identified as high priority candi-
dates for future expansion, the scope and content of which shall
be similar to the recently completed study for the proposed project
ports.
(b) Assisting PPA in establishing by December 31, 1982 priority ranking
for minor national ports requiring expansion or major rehabilitation
4. IMPROVEMENT OF PPA'S MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
(a) Assisting PPA in developing more accurate and succinct operational
and financial data for management control and corporate planning.
(b) Assisting PPA in developing reliable and uniform traffic and opera-
tional data and determining reliable port productivity indices to
enable PPA and the Bank to agree on suitable operational targets
for project ports by no later than December 31, 1981.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps
TABLES
2.1    Summary of Philippine Ports Traffic 1978, 1979, 1986 and 1990
2.2    Philippine Ports Authority Existing Port Charges
3.1A   Project Cost Estimates Summary
3.1B   Cagayan de Oro - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.1C   Cebu - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.1D   Iloilo - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.1E   Zamboanga - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.1F   Access Roads - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.1G   Equipment Procurement - Detailed Cost Estimates
3.2    Technical Assistance and Training Cost Summary
3.3    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4.1    Cagayan de Oro Port Traffic 1978-90
4.2    Cebu Port Traffic 1978-90
4.3    Iloilo Port Traffic 1978-90
4.4    Zamboanga Port Traffic 1978-90
4.5    Lighterage System Cost
4.6    Estimated Cargo Handling Rates
4.7    Estimated Cargo Handling Losses
4.8    Cagayan de Oro: Summary of Project Benefits
4.9    Cagayan: Minimizaton of Ship Waiting time Costs
4.10   Cebu:  Summary of Project Benefits
4.11   Iloilo: Summary of Project Benefits
4.12   Zamboanga: Summary of Project Benefits
4.13   Zamboanga: Minimization of Ship Waiting Time Costs
4.14   Project Costs for Economic Evaluation
5.1    Financial Forecasts Methodology and Principal Assumptions
5.2    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 - Cagayan de Oro
5.3    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 - Cebu
5.4    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 Iloilo
5.5    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 - Zamboanga
5.6    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 - Manila
5.7    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 Other PMUs
5.8    Projected Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1979-86 - All PMUs
5.9    PPA Consolidated Balance Sheet, December 31, 1978-86
5.10   PPA Cash Flow Projections, 1979-86
CHARTS
21268     PPA Organization Chart
21269/70 Project Construction Schedules



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
MAPS
14769  Transportation Network of the Philippines
14860  Port Subsector - Mindanao and Visayas Area
14771  Cagayan de Oro - Existing and Proposed Facilities
14770  Cebu - Existing and Proposed Facilities
14772  Iloilo - Existing and Proposed Facilities
14773R Zamboanga - Existing and Proposed Facilities



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
Al. National Transportation System Study, Vol. 4 Ports & Shipping,
Interim Report, February 1978, by Inter-Agency Technical
Committee on Transport Planning
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1. Ports Feasibility Studies and Design Project, Draft Final Report
by PPA, NEDA, Renardet-Sauti-Ice/Hoff and Overgaad, October 1979
(6 volumes)
B2. 1978 PPA Annual Statistical Report
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Philippine Ports Authority Annual Report 1978
C2.  Presidential Decree No. 857  - Creation of PPA (December 24, 1975)
C3. Presidential Decree No. 1177 - Revision of Budgetary Procedure
(July 30, 1977)
C4. Presidential Decree No. 1234 - Special and Fiduciary Fund Management
(February 1, 1978)
C5. Presidential Decree No. 1284 - Authority for PPA to develop all
Manila North Harbor Port Terminal
Facilities (January 16, 1978)
C6. Economic Evaluation - Other Unlikely and Unevaluated Risks
C7. Engineering Annex - Description of Existing Port Facilities
C8. Philippine Ports Authority Financial Plan - 1980-86 which includes
a summary Investment Plan for this period.



P11.IPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Summary of Philippine Port Traffic 1q78, 1986 and 1990
(in thousand metric tons)
1978 (actual)                            1986 (forecast)                        1990 (forecast)
Foreign  Domestic   Total    (X)         Foreign  Domestic   Total  (Z)    Foreign   Domestic    Total    (X)
Project Ports PMUs
Cagayan                                  103        525       628    3.7          252       815    1,067    3.8          322      1,024      1,346    3.7
Cebu                                     120      2,209    2,329   13.3           285    3,359    3,644   12.9          489       4,154      4,643   12.8
Iloilo                                   151        620       771    4.4          649      858    1,507    5.3           782      1,046      1,828    5.0
Zamboanga                                  9        661      670    3.8            15       934       949    3.3          20      1,161      1,181    3.3
Total Project Ports PMUs                 383      4,015    4.398   25.2         1,201    5         7,167   25.3       1,613       7,385      8,998   24.8
Manila PMU                   -           3,676      5,454    9,130   52.2         6,216    8,925   15,141   53.4        8.153    11,595    19,748   54.4               o
Other PMUs (13)                            833      3,115    3,948   22.6         1,078    4,943    6,021   21.3         1,292      6,265      7,557   20.8
Total PMUs (18)                       4,892    12,584   17,476  100.0          8,495   19,834   28,329  100.0    11,058    25,245    36,303  100.0
Minor national ports (76)                  253      3,651    3,904                  307    5,898    6,205                  365      7,551      7,916
Total National Ports (94)             5,145    16,235   21,380   31.6          8,802   25,732   34,534   31.3    11,423    32,796    44,219   31.6
Anchorages                               7,098      1,085    8,183   12.1       11,680    1,750   13,430   12.1        14,810      2,210    17,020   12.1
Private ports /a                       22,583    15,481   38,064   56.3         36,604   25,856   62,460   56.6    45,863    33,276    7Q,139   56.3
Total Philippine Ports               34,826    32,801   67,627  100.0         57.086   53,338  110,424  100.0    72,096    68,282   140,378  100.0
(x)               51.5       48.5    100.0                 51.7    48.3       100.0               51.4       48.6      100.0                   C
/a Based on reports from 146 ports registered by PPA.
Source: PPA
December 1979



- 51 -
Table 2.2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority Existing Port Charges
Rate
A. Charges against vessels:
1. Harbor Fee
(a) for each entrance from/departure
to foreign port                             P 50.00
(b)  for each coastwise entrance/
departure of domestic vessels
6-200 NRT                                    1.00-6.00
201-250                                       10.00
251-300                                       12.00
301-400                                       16.00
401-above                                     20.00
2. Berthing Charge
(a) Foreign vessels
(i)  berthed at ports with cargo               0.50/GRT/day
shed                                 1,000.00/day = maximum
(ii)  berthed at ports without                  0.10/GRT/day
cargo sheds                             900.00/day = maximum
(iii)  noncargo vessels:  first                  0.05/GRT/day
eight hours                             500.00/day = maximum
more than eight hours                     0.10/GRT/day
500.00/day = maximum
(iv)  at anchorage/harbor/basin/                50% of above rates
ship/channel, etc.



- 52 -
Table 2.2
Page 2
Rate
(b) Domestic vessels
(i) berthed at ports with cargo
sheds
a. vessels with more than
1,000 CRT for first day
or part thereof
- first 1,000 tons                E 500.00
- each succeeding tonnage             0.02
P 300.00 = maximum
50.00 = minimum
- for each succeeding day            50X of above rates
200.00 = maximum
20.00 = minimum
b. vessels with less than 100 GRT
- for first day                   P  10.00 = minimum
- for each succeeding day             5.00 = minimum
c.  vessles with 101 to 999 GRT              0.03/GRT/day
(ii) berthed at ports without cargo
sheds                                 E   0.02/GRT/day
a.  for first day                         75.00 = maximum
5.00 = minimum
b.  for each succeeding day               35.00 = maximum
3.00 = minimum
3. Tonnage dues
Charged on the first port of call of a
vessel engaged in foreign trade coming
to the Philippines from a foreign port
or on a vessel going to a foreign port
from the Philippines                                  0.50 per NRT



- 53 -
Table 2.2
Page 3
Rate
B. Charges Against Cargo
1. Wharfage dues
(a) at government ports
(i) imports
(ii)  exports                                        8.00/ton
(iii)  domestic                                       4.00/ton
1.00/ton
(b) at private ports
50% of above rates
C. Other Charges
1. Storage charge
free storage period
(a) foreign cargo
(i) break-bulk cargo
a. articles not designated
for examination       6 working days       0.20/ton/day
b. articles designated
for examination       4 working days       0.40/ton/day
c.  packages/articles    5 working days        0.20/ton/day
(ii) containerized cargo
same as break bulk
(iii)  empty container            3 working days      2.00/ton/day
(b) domestic cargo
(i)  inbound                    2 working days      1.50/ton/day
(ii)  outbound                   2 working days      1.50/ton/day
s.  Arrastre charge                                         10% of arrastre
operator's gross
income



- 54 -
Table 3.1A
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates Summary
X of
Local   Foreign       Total           Local   Foreign  Total           total cost
--- (P0 00)                              -- (US$'000) ------
1. Civil Works
(i)  Cagayan de Oro (Table 3.1B)                50,838   61,057       111,895         6,964     8,364    15,328
(ii)  Cebu (Table 3.LC)                         116,193    73,938      190,131        15,917    10,129    26,046
(iii)  Iloilo (Table 3.1D)                        68,800    78,354      147,154         9,425   10,733   20,158
(iv)  Zamboanga (Table 3.LE)                     61,699    39,933      101,632         8,452     5,470   13,922
Subtotal civil works                         297,530  253,282       550.812        40,758   34.696    75.454
Engineering consultant services
for civil works
(i)  Cagayan de Oro                              3,939     5,908        9,847           539       810      1,349
(ii)  Cebu                                        6,693    10,039       16,732           917     1,375      2,292
(iii)  Iloilo                                      5,180      7,769      12,949           710    1,064       1,774
(iv)  Zamboanga                                   3,578      5,366       8,944           490        735    1,225
Subtotal engineering services                 19.390   29,082        48.472         2,656     3.984     6,640
Physical'contingencies                             29,753    25,328      55,081         4,076      3,469     7,545
Price contingencies                              110,098    77,438      187,536        15,082    10,608    25,690
Subtotal contingencies                       139.351   102.766    242.617          19,158   14.077   33,235
Total - Civil Works (net of taxes)           456.771  385,130       841.901        62,572   52,757   115.329              70
2. Access Roads (Table 3.1P)
(i)  Cagayan de Oro                              3,017     1,204        4,221           413        165       578
(ii)  Iloilo                                     12,577     5,344       17,921         1,723        732    2,455
(iii)  Zamboanga                                   2,661        992       3,653           365        136       501
Subtotal                                      18.255     7,540       25.795         2,501     1.033      3,534
Engineering supervision for access roads            1,026       429        1,455           140        59        199
Physical contingencies                              2,283     1,056        3,339           313       145       458
Price contingencies                                 7,009     2,447        9,456           960       335     1,295
Subtotal contingencies                         9.292     3,503       12.795         1,273       480      1,753
Total - Access Roads (net of taxes)           28,573    11,472       40,045         3,914     1.572      5,486             3
3. Technical Assistance
(i)  Civil Works Administration                      -     1,562        1,562             -       214        214
(ii)  Siltation, erosion and hydro-
graphic studies                          1,197      2,745       3,942           164        376       54C
(iii)  Passenger traffic study                        949       993       1,942           130        136       266
(iv)  Philippines Ports IV feasibility
studies, including detailed
engineering                              5,490      7,701      13,191           752     1,055      1,807
(v)  Improving management information
systems                                    511      1,314       1,825            70        180       250
(vi)  Engineering Advisory Assistance
- Ports III                                 613     2,475       3,088            84        339       423
Total - Technical Assistance                   8.760    16,790       25,.550        1200    2,.300       3500              2
4.  Project Subtotal Subject to Bank Loan             494,104  413,392       907,496        67.686   56,629  124,315
5.  Other Items
(i)  Equipment procurement (Table 3.1G)   40,990    82,916            123,906         5,615    11,358    16,973             10
(ii)  Acquisition of land - Cebu                 41,005          -      41,005         5,617          -    5,617              4
(iii)  Taxes & duties - (a) Civil works          126,286          -    126,286         17,299          -   17,299
(b) Access roads        6,007          -       6,007           823         -       823
Subtotal of taxes                            132,293          -    132,293         18,122          -   18122              11
Total - Other Items                          214,288   82,916       297,204        29.354    11.358   40.712
6.  Project Grand Total                               708.392  496,308   1.204.,700         97,040   67.987  165.027              100
Note: Exchange rate US$1.00 = P 7.30.
Source: Government, consultants and Bank staff.
April 1980



- 55 -
Table 3.1B
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
1. Cagayan De Oro - Detailed Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign  Total
Item             Particulars                 -- (p '000) ------
A. Civil Works
(1) Dredging, reclamation, dike work, wreck
salvage and channel buoying                      5,030   10,297   15,327
(ii) Construction of multipurpose berths 415 m
long @ 10.5 m MLLW depth, 10.3 ha in area:
(a) Quay & marine structures                    14,625   27,177   41,802
(b) Sheds, buildings, fences, gates
& weighbridges                            10,078    7,360   17,438
(c) Paving & service roads                      12,318    4,738   17,056
(d) Lighting & electrical                        3,119    4,744    7,863
(e) Water supply                                   227       910    1,137
(f) Drainage & sewerage                            819       281    1,100
Subtotal                                41,186   45,210   86,396
Subtotal - civil works net              46J216   55.507  101.723
Add mobilization costs (10%)                    4,622    5,550   10,172
Subtotal - including mobilization       50,838   61,057  111.895
B.  Physical contingencies (10%)                            5,084    6,106   11,190
Base Costs                              55,922   67.163  123,085
C.  Add engineering services (supervision)(8%)              3,939    5,908    9,847
D.  Base costs w/ engineering services                     59,861   73,071  132,932
E.  Price contingencies to completion                      18,433   17,680   36,113
Civil works w/ contingencies             78,294   90,751  169,045
F.    Taxes - 15%                                          25,357         -   25,357
Total for Civil Works             103,651   90.751  194.402
N.B.  Base costs are December 1979 costs.  Price contingencies cover three
years' construction 1981 to 1983.



- 56 -
Table 3.1C
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
2. Cebu - Detailed Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign  Total
Item             Particulars                              ------ (P '000) ------
A.1. Civil Works New Construction and Dredginp
(i) Dredging and disposal of 460,000 cu m
of spoil, dike work and channel buoying         17,463    6,303   23,766
(ii) New construction of composite multipurpose
berths 550 m long at -9.5 m depth at
MLLil, 18 ha in area:
(a) Quay & marine structures                    21,358   24,955   46,313
(b) Sheds, buildings, fences, gates
& weighbridges                            12,027    7,161   19,188
(c) Paving & service roads                      26,248   12,038   38,286
(d) Lighting & electrical                        4,303    3,590    7,893
(e) Water supply                                 1,479       816    2,295
(f) Drainage & sewerage                          1,309       433    1,742
Subtotal                                66.724   48.993  115.717
Subtotal A                              84.187   55.296  139.483
A.2 Civil Works Rehabilitation
(i) New fendering system for about
1 km length                                      3,887    3,164    7,051
(ii) Paving of 40 m to 50 m wide apron, curbs
and existing circulation roads,
drainage, lighting and water supply             16,762    8,346   25,108
(iii) Port perimeter fencing enclosing
a 38 ha existing port area and
providing gates                                    794       410    1,204
Subtotal                                21.443   11.920   33,363
Subtotal civil works net               105.630   67.216  172,846
Add mobilization costs (10%)                           10,563    6,722   17,285
Subtotal including mobilization        116.193   73,938  190.131
B.   Physical contingencies (10%)                          11,619    7,394   19,013
Base Costs                             127.812   81.332  209.144
C.   Add engineering services (supervision) - (8%)          6,693   10,039   16,732
D.   Base costs wl engineering services                   134,505   91,371  225,876
E.   Price contingencies to completion                     41,792   22,362   64,154
Subtotal                               176.297  113.733  290,030
F.   Taxes - 15%                                           43,505         -   43,505
Total for Civil tIlorks                219.802  113.733  333.535
N.B.  Base costs are December 1979 costs.  Price contingencies cover three
years  construction 1981 to 1983.



57 -
Table 3.1D
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
3. Iloilo - Detailed Cost Estimates
Item            Particulars                           Local   Foreign       Total
---- -P  -000       
A.   Civil Works
(i)  Dredging and reclamation (946,000 cu m)
and dike works                            24,125   14,898   39,023
(ii)  Construction of multipurpose island
berths 400 m long @-10.5 m MLLW depth,
9.0 ha in area:
(a)  Quay and marine structures             15,139   42,487   57,626
(b)  Sheds, buildings, fences, gates
and weighbridges                    10,420    6,350   16,770
(c)  Paving and service roads                8,960    3,721   12,681
(d)  Lighting and electrical                 1,872    2,884    4,756
(e)  Water supply                              974      541    1,515
(f)  Drainage and sewerage                   1,055      350    1,405
Subtotal                            38.420   56.333   94,753
Subtotal A                          62,545   71.231  133.776
Add mobilization costs, 10%                       6,255    7,123   13,378
Subtotal including mobilization   68.800   78,354  147,154
B.   Physical contingencies, 10%                          6,880    7,835   14,715
Base costs                          75,680   86,189  161,869
C.   Add engineering supervision, 8%                      5,180    7,769   12,949
D.   Base costs with engineering services                80,860   93,958  174,818
E.  Price contingencies to completion                    26,478   24,528   51,006
Civil works with contingencies   107,338  118,486  225,824
F.  Taxes, 15%                                           33,874        -   33,874
Total for Civil Works              141,212  118,486  259.698
Note: Base costs are December 1979 base costs. Price contingencies cover three
years' construction, 1981 to 1983.



- 58 -
aobLe 3-1_
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
4. Zamboanga - Detailed Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign       Total
Item                 Particulars                          --------   '00oo ---------
A.1  Civil works - new construction and dredging
(i)  Dredging for reclamation (463,000 m3)
and dike work                                10,953    4,535    15,488
(ii)  New construction of multipurpose deep
water quay 220 m long @-10 m depth
at MLLW, 7.5 ha in area:
(a)  Quay and marine structures                 3,895    7,710    11,605
(b) Sheds and building, fencing,
gates and weighbridges                  10,488    7,683    18,171
(c)  Paving and service roads                  16,394    3,828    20,222
(d)  Lighting and electrical                    2,316    3,572       5,888
(e)  Water supply                               1,875    2,002       3,877
(f)  Drainage and sewerage                      2,396       560      2,956
(g)  Channel and bridges                        1,354       693      2,047
Subtotal of new construction                   38,718   26,048    64,766
Subtotal A.1                                   49.671   30,583    80,254
A.2 Civil works - incorporation of existing
T-iettv section 90 m length with new
deep water cuav                                     3,516    3,808       7,324
A.3  Civil works - ferry pier and dolphins                 2,903    1,912       4,815
Subtotal A.1 to A.3                            56290   36.303    92.393
Add mobilization costs (10%)                          5,609    3,630       9,239
Subtotal civil works with mobilization                   39,933   101. 632
B.   Physical contingencies - 10%                          6,170    3,993    10,163
Base costs                                     67,869   43,926   111,795
C.   Add engineering services (supervision) - (8%)    3,578    5,366            8,944
D.   Base costs with engineering services                 71,447   49,292   120,739
E.  Price contingencies to completion                     23,395   12,868    36,263
Subtotal                                       94,842   62.160   157,002
F.  Taxes - 15%                                           23,550          -    23,550
Total for civil works                         118,392   62,160   180,552
N.B.  Base costs are Decenber 1979 costs.  Price contingencies cover three
years' construction 1981 to 1983.



- 59 -
Table 3.1F
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Access Roads
Item       Particulars                                   Local   Foreign      Total
-- - - -P   O O O   --------
Cagayan de Oro
Access road - 500 m long, with one bridge
18 m span                            2,743      1095      3,838
Mobilization - 10%                                   274       109       383
Subtotal                                    3.017    1.204      4.221
Add 10% physical contingencies                       302       120       422
Base Costs                                        3,319    1           4,643
Add engineering supervision, 5%                      166       66        232
Subtotal                                    3,485    1,390      4.875
Price contingency over two years'
construction (1982/83)                          1,279       416      1,695
Total                                       4.764    1.806       6.570
Taxes and duties                                     986        -        986
Total                                       5.750    1.806       7,556
Iloilo                                    -
1. Temporary access road - 1 km long, including
two bridges, 2-12 m and one 14-m span               7,280    2,110      9,390
Mobilization, 10%                                   728      211        939
Subtotal                                        8.008    2.321    10.329
Add 10% physical contingencies                          801       232     1,033
Base costs                                      8.809    2,553    11,362
Add engineering supervision, 5%                         440       128       568
Subtotal                                        9.249    2.681    11.930
Price contingency over two years'
construction (1981/82)                              2,490      547      3,037
Subtotal                                       11.739   3.228    14.967
Taxes and duties                                      2,245         -     2,245
Total for 1                                    13.984    3.228    17,212



- 60 -
Table 3.1F
Page 2 of 2
Item       Particulars                                  Local   Foreign      Total
--- ---  P   000o   ---------
Iloilo (Continued)
2.  Permanent access road                               4,154     2,748      6,902
Mobilization, 10%                                   415       275        690
Subtotal                                      4?569      3,023     7,592
Add 20% physical contingencies                        914       605      1,519
Base costs                                    5,483      3,628     9,111
Add engineering supervision, 5%                       274       181        455
Subtotal                                      5,757      3,809     9?566
Price contingency                                   2,113     1,141      3,254
Subtotal                                      7,870      4,950    12,820
Taxes and duties                                    1,923         -      1,923
Total for 2                                   9,793      4,950    14,743
Zamboanga
1. Widening of Kawa-Kawa Access
Road - 1 km in length
Base cost 1979 /a                                2,661        992      3,653
+ 10% physical contingency                            266        99        365
Subtotal                                       2_927      1,091     4,018
2.  Engineering supervision, 5%                           146        54        200
Subtotal                                       3,073      1,145     4,218
3. Price contingencies over two years'
construction (1982/83)                           1,127        343     1,470
Subtotal                                       4,200      1,488     5,688
4.  Taxes and duties                                      853         -        853
Total                                          5,053      1,488     6,541
/a  Inclusive of mobilization cost.



- 61 -                          Table 3.1G
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Equipment Procurement
(Cargo Handling)
Port             Equipment particulars                       Local  Foreign  Total
______- POOO 
Cagayan de Oro      i.  2 Nos. transtainers                    810   8,662   9,472
ii.  1 No. heavy forklift truck               -   1,039   1,039
iii.  3 Nos. tractors                         65   1,559   1,624
iv. 15 Nos. flatbed trailers                243   1,299   1,542
v. 2 Nos. portable firefighting
trailer pumps                     702     866   1,568
Subtotal                     1,820  13,425  15,245
Cebu                i.  2 Nos. 25T capacity level-
luffing cranes                    6,377  10,915  17,292
ii.  3 Nos. transtainers                 9,566  16,372  25,938
iii.  7 Nos. tractors                        529   3,638   4,167
iv. 28 Nos. flatbed trailers                454   2,426   2,880
v. 2 Nos. portable firefighting
trailer pumps                     702      866   1,568
Subtotal                    17J628  34,217  51,845
Iloilo              i.  3 Nos. heavy forklift trucks             -   3,118   3,118
ii.  6 Nos. tractors                        357   3,518   3,875
iii. 18 Nos. flatbed trailers                212   1,878   2,090
iv. 2 Nos. portable firefighting
trailer pumps                     702     866   1,568
Subtotal                     1,271   9.380  10,651
Zamboanga           i.  2 Nos. heavy forklift trucks             -   2,310   2,310
ii.  3 Nos. tractors                        218   1,559   1,777
iii. 10 Nos. trailers                        162     866   1,028
iv.  2 Nos. portable firefighting
trailer pumps                     702     866   1,568
Subtotal                     1.082   5,601   6,683
Total Equipment All 4 Ports            21,801  62,623  84,424
Engineering inspection and super-
vision, 5%                             1,090   3,131   4,221
Base costs with engineering
services                             22,891  65,754  88,645
Price contingencies to completion       9,454  17,162  26,616
Subtotal                    32,345  82,916 115,261
Add taxes and duties, 7-1/2%             8,645       -   8,645
Total for Equipment        40,990  82,916 123,906
April 1980



- 62 -                               Table 3.2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Cost Summary
Local    Foreign
-- (US$)   -
1. Civil Works Administration
(i)  Overseas training - 3 MPW/PPA engineers
12 mm each = 36 mm x $4,000                               -    144,000
(ii) Other reimbursable costs (travel, tuition
and other fees, miscellaneous)                            -      70,000
Total                                                  -    214.000
2. Siltation, Erosion and Hydrographic Studies
(i)  Expatriate assistance - 18 mm x $7,000                       -    126,000
(ii) Laboratory, specialized studies and inves-
tigations (by contract)                                   -    200,000
(iii)  Local expenditures (inc. 36 mm @ $2,000)               164,000           -
(iv)  Data analysis and interpretation                             -      50,000
Total                                            164,000    376,000
3. Passenger Traffic Study
(i)  Expatriate assistance = 16 mm x $7,000                       -    112,000
(ii)  Other reimbursable costs (travel, etc.)                      -      24,000
(iii)  Local expenditures (inc. 16 mm @ $2,000)               130,000           -
Total                                            130.000    136,000
4. Management Information Systems Improvement
(i)  Expatriate assistance - 2 x 12 = 24 mm x $7,000              -    168,000
(ii)  Other reimbursable costs (travel, etc.)                      -      12,000
(iii)  Local expenditures (inc. 24 mm @ $2,000)                70,000           -
Total                                             70,000    180.000
5. Engineering Advisory Assistance and Support During
Construction
(i)  Expatriate assistance = 42 mm x $7,500                       -    315,000
(ii)  Other reimbursable costs (travel, etc.)                      -      24,000
(iii)  Local expenditures                                      84,000           -
Total                                             84.000    339,000
6. Philippines - Fourth Ports Project Feasibility Studies
(i)  Expatriate assistance - 3 x 12 = 36 mm x $7,500              -    270,000
(ii)  Other reimbursable costs (travel, etc.)                      -      18,000
(iii)  Local expenditures (inc. 36 mm @ $2,000)               137,000           -
(iv)  Laboratory, specialized studies and investi-
gations (by contract)                                97,000     194,000
Total                                           234,000    482.000
7.  Detailed Engineering for Fourth Ports Project
(i)  Expatriate assistance - 3 x 10 = 30 mm x $7,500              -    225,000
(ii)  Other reimbursable costs (travel, etc.)                      -      12,000
(iii)  Local expenditures                                      18,000           -
(iv)  Contract work                                         500,000    336,000
Total                                           518.000    573,000
GRAND TOTAL                                   1,200.000  2,300,000
April 1980



- 63 -                            Table 3.3
PHILIPPINES
APPRIASAL OF THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US $000)
IBRD fiscal
year and
quarter                        Quarter                Cumulative
1980-81
To 9/30/80
To 12/31/80                     850                     850
To 3/31/81.                     710                   1,560
To 6/30/81                    1,430                   2,990
1981/82
To 9/30/81                    4,940                   7,930
To 12/31/81                   6,360                  14,290
To 3/31/82                    6,400                  20,690
To 6/30/82                    5,800                  26,490
1982/83
To 9/30/82                    5,800                  32,290
To 12/31/82                   5,710                  38,000
To 3/31/83                    5,600                  43,600
To 6/30/83                    5,500                  49,100
1983/84
To 9/30/83                    5,500                  54,600
To 12/31/83                   5,400                  60,000
To 3/31/84                    2,800                  60,800
To 6/30/84                    2,100                  64,900
1984/85
To 9/30/84                    1,400                  66,300
To 12/31/84                     700                  67,000
Principal assumptions:  1.  Effective date of loan not later than 10/1/80.
2. Bid invitation for all civil works not later
than 10/1/80.
Source: Bank staff.
April 1980



- 64 -                                                               Table 4.1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Cagayan Port Traffic
('000 metric tons)
Actual                                                            Forecast (Calendar Years)
1978      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1997       1988      1989      1990
Domestic Camao n-ward
Bottled cargo                   21.4      21.4      22.8      24.2       25.8      27.5      29.3      31.2      33.2      35.4      37.7      40.2
Fertilizers                     25.1      29.1      31.7       33.6      36.1      38.8      41.7      44.9      48.2      51.8      55.7      59.9
Industrial goods                 9.5      10.9      11.7       12.6      13.5      14.5      15.7      16.9      18.3      19.7      21.3      23.0
Other                          141.1    151.0    159.9    169.2    176.2    189.8    201.0    213.0    225.8    239.3               253.7    268.9
Subtotal                   197.1    212.4    225.6    239.6    254.6    270.6    287.7    305.0    325.5    346.2    368.1    342.0
Domestic Carto Outward
Grains                         213.4    232.5    242.8    253.5    264.7    276.5    289.6    303-3    317.7    332.8    348.7    365.4
Sugar                            0.4       4.2       6.5       10.1      15.6      24.0      27.2      30.5      34.1      38.2      42.8      49.0
Bottled cargo                   20.6      21.0      22.3      23.8       25.4      27.0      28.8      30.7      32.&      34.9      37.2      39.7
Other                           93.7    104.3    110.1    116.2    122.7    129.9    136.9    144.3    152.2    160.7    169-7    179.1
Subtotal                  328.1    362.0    381.7    403.6    428.4    457.4    482.5    508.8    536.8    366.6    598.4    632.2
Total Domestic Cargo    525.2    574.4    607.3    643.7    683.0    728.0    770.2    814.8    862.3    912.8    966.8  1.C24.2
Fore.in Trade
Imports                         11.7      13.6      14.7      15.9      17.2       18.6      70.1      21.8      23.6      25.6      27.7      30.1
Exports                         93.1    159.8    169.8    180.6    192.2    204.8    217.1    230.3    244.3    259.4    275.5    292.6
Of which wood products        56.0      66.6      72.6      79.1      86.2      94.0    101.2    109.0   17.4          126.5    136.2    146.7
Total Foreign Trade        104.8    173.4    184.5    190.5    209.4    223.3          237.2    252.0    267.9    284.9    303.2    322.7
Total Cargo                      630.0    747.8    791.8    839.7    892.4    951.3  1.007.4  1.066.8  1.130.2  1,197.7  1.270.0  1.346.9
Passengers ('000)                  583       649        684       722       762       804       849       897       948    1,001      1,058     1,117
CaJro Prolections for Economic Evaluation /a
('000 metric tons)
Main Berth Traffic
Cargo                                                                               912       967    1,026      1,089     1,157     1,230     1,306
Passengers ('000)                                                                   707       752       800       851       904       961    1,020
Remaining Secondary Berth Traffic
Cargo                                                                                40        40        40        40        40        40        40
Passengers ('000)                                                                    97        97        97        97        97        97        97
Without Prolect - Main Berth /b
Break Bulk
Domestic
In large ships                                                               303       320       336       355       374       395       415
In small ships                                                               248       265       283       302       323       344        366
Subtotal                                                               551       585        619       657       697       739       781
Foreign                                                                        179       178        176       174       170       167       161
Total                                                                  730       763        795      831        867       906       942
Container
Domestic                                                                       225       240        256       272       290       310       330
Foreign                                                                         45         59        75        93       114       136       161
Total                                                                  270        299       331       365       404       446       491
Total                                                                          1.000      1.062     1.126    1.196      1.271     1.352     1.433
With Proiect - Xain Berth /b
Break Bulk
Domestic
In large ships                                                               303       320       336       355       374       395       415
In small ships                                                               248       265       283       302       323       344       366
Subtotal                                                               551        585       619       657       697       739       781
Foreign                                                                        179       178        176      174        170       167       161
Total                                                                   730       763       795       831       867       906       942
Container
Domestic                                                                       225       240        256       272       290       310       330
Foreign                                                                         45         59        75        93       114       136       161
Total                                                                   270       299       331       365       404       446       491
Total                                                                          1.000    1,062       1.126     1,196     1.271     1.352     1.433
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
/b  For capacity analysis, passenger projections for main berth have been converted to cargo traffic vith 8 oassengers - 1 ton.



Table 4.2
- 65 -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Cebu Port Traffic
('000 metric tons)
Actual                                                            Forecast (calendar years)
1978      1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990
Domestic Cargo Inward
Cereals - bagged                        462.2      492.0     507.8     524.2    541.3       559.0      581.3    604.6    628.8        654.2    680.7    708.4
Copra                                   100.8       99.8     104.5      109.4     114.6     120.1      125.9     132.0      138.5    145.3       152.5    160.1
Bottled cargo                           152.0      171.5     182.2      193.6     205.7     218.5      233.0    248.4    264.8        282.4    301.1    321.1
Industrial goods                         78.4       90.8      97.7      105.1     113.1     121.7      132.3     143.8      156.3     169.9      184.7    200.8
Other                                   909.4  1,027.4  1,092.3  1,161.6  1,235.3   1,301.1  1,372.9  1,442.9  1,510.6  1,591.6  1,682.8  1,793.1
Subtotal                         1.702.8  1J881.5  1.984.5  2.093.9  2,210.0  2.320.4  2.445.4  2.571.7  2,699.0  2.843.4  3.001.8  3,183.5
Dom,estic Careo Outward
Cereals - bagged                         70.1       74.2      76.3       78.6      80.9      83.4       85.7      88.2       90.8      93.6      96.5       99.5
Bottled cargo                           142.1      160.8     171.1    182.0       193.6     206.0      220.0     234.9    250.9    268.0        286.3    305.8
Fertilizer                                23.1      26.3      28.0       29.9      32.0       34.1      36.4      38.9       41.6      44.4       47.5      50.7
Other                                   279.1      312.9     331.8    351.3       372.2     389.0      407.8    425.2       440.5     460.7     484.1      514.7
Subtotal                            514.4     574.2    607.2       641.8     678.7      712.5    749.9       787.2    823.8      866.7      914.4    970.7
Domestic Cargo - Total           2,217.2  2.455.7  2.591.7  32.75.7  2.888.7  3.032.9  3.195.3  3.358.9  3.52Z.8  3.710.1   3,916.2  4,154.2
Foreign Trade /a
Imports                                  84.2       97.2     104.4      112.1    120.4    142.4        168.4     202.9    247.8    286.9        324.2    351.7
Exports                                  36.1       40.5      43.2       46.2      49.6      58.7       68.6      81.9       99.3     114.0     127.8    137.6
Foreign Trade - Total               120.3     137.7     147.6      158.3     170.0      201.1     237.0     284.8      347.1    400.9       452.0     489.3
Cargo - Total                    2.337.5  2.593.4  2.739.3  2.894.0  3,058.7  3,234.0  3.432.3  3,643.7  3,869.9  4,111.0  4.368.2  4.663.5
Passengers ('000)                          3,527     3,930     4,149      4,379     4,623     4,880      5,164     5,465      5,784     6,121      6,478     6,856
Cargo Projections for Project Evaluation /b
('000 metric tons)
Quay (Zone III) Rehabilitation Project
Domestic Cargo Total                                                              3.467    3.661       3.881     4.114      4,364     4.629     4,912      5,213
Without Project
Zone III                                                                       919      1,025     1,195     1,275      1,418     1,574      1,744     1,929
Rest of port                                                                 2,548      2,636     2,686      2,839     2,946      3,055    3,168      3,284
With Pro1ect
Zone III                                                                     1,075      1,245     1,436      1,522     1,615     1,713      1,817     1,929
Rest of port                                                                 2,392      2,416     2,445      2,592     2,749      2,916     3,095     3,284
Container and Forei&n Trade
Terminal Project
Without Prolect
Domestic Total                                                                            3.661     3.881      4.114     4.364      4.629     4,912     5.213
Break bulk                                                                              3,233     3,451      3,684     3,934     4,199      4,482     4,783
Containers                                                                                428       430        430       430        430       430       430
Foreign Total                                                                               183        197       212        229       247       266        288
Break bulk                                                                                147        158       170       184        198       213       231
Containers                                                                                 36         39        42        45         49        53         57
Port - Total                                                                              3.844      4.078     4.326     4.593      4.876     5.178      5.501
Break bulk                                                                              3,380     3,609      3,854     4,118     4,397      4,695     5,014
Containers                                                                                464       469        472       475        479       483       487
With Prolect
C & FT Terminal - Total                                                                   1.162     1.248      1.339     1.433      1.542     1.659      1,782
Break bulk (foreign)                                                                      110         80        42         23        25        27         29
Container
Domestic                                                                                961     1,011     1,054      1,091     1,141      1,207     1,293
Foreign                                                                                  91       157        243       324       376        425       460
Rest of Port (break bulk)                                                                 2.682      2.830     2,987      3,155     3.334     3.519    3.719
Port - Total                                                                              3,844     4.078      4,326     4,593      4,876     5,178      5,501
Break bulk                                                                              2,792     2,910      3,029     3,178    3,359       3,546     3.748
Containers                                                                              1,052     1,168      1,297     1,415      1,517     1,632     1,753
/a  Foreign trade projections include foreign cargo now transshipped via ltanila; much of this cargo will bypass Manila if project is
implemented.
/b  For port capacity analysis, passenger traffic has been converted to cargo traffic with 8 passengers - I ton.



- 66 -
Table 4. 3
P.IL.PPINES
-HIRD PORTS PROJECT
Iloilo Port TraffIc
7t000 octrlc tone)
Actual                                          _             Forecast (calen.dar  roers)
1978     1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      19S5      6986      1987      1988     1989      1990
Doetenic Cargo Tc-ard
Bottled cacao                          43.3     47.8      50.2      52.6      55.2      57.8     60.7      64.0      67.4      70.9     74.6      78.4
Oraire                                 24.3      26.4     27.5      28.7      28.9      31.2      32.6     34.!      35.7      37.3      39.n     .0.8
Conseruction    r t-rials              44.9      56.7     53.6      99.7      64.1      88.8      73.6     78.7      84.1      89.9      96.1     106.7
Wood products                          37.2     40.5      42.3      44.L      46.1      48.1     49.4      50.8      52.2      53.6      33.1     59.6
Other                                 248.6    263.6    276.9    289.2    33.9    302.7    318.5    334.7    351.9    376.2    389.9    408.9
Subtotal                         399.3    430.0    451.6    474.3    498.2    508.7    534.8    562.3    591.3    621.9    654.3    699.'
Iltoncto Cargo Outward
Cra:ns                                 61.5      66.0     68.4      70.9      73.4      76.1      78.9     8.5       849       98.7      91.3     94.7
9o-tLed c-cSo                          31.3      34.3     3559      37.6      39.4      41.3     43.5      41.7      48.0      59.9      53.1     55.9
F-rtlioIr                              18.3      19.4     20.0      20.7      21.5      22.6     22.8      23.3      24.3      25.2     26.1      27.0
Other                                 125.7    138.8    146.5    153.3    161.3    143.3    251.3    158.9    169.0    178.5    188.8    198.7
Subtotal                         236.7    258.5    270.2    282.5    295.4    282.7    296.4    310.8    326.2    342.5    359.3    377.2
Dooe-tio Car-o - r I             636.2    688.5    721.8    756.8    793.6    791.4    831.2    873.2    917.5    984.2  L.013.6  1.n65.6
o-ro-tn Tradc
br or a
FOrrLLtier                          71.6      74.9      76.4      78.1      79.8     81.6      83.5      95.1      87.1     89.0      99.9      92.9
other                                10.1      11.3     12.1      12.8      13.6      14.5     15.3      16.6      67.6      18.8    920.       21.5
Subtota1                          81.7      86.1      88.5     90.9      9354      96.1      98.8    101.7    604.7    107.8    111.0    114.4
Cororco
Sugar                              213.3    232.8    227.7    232.7    237.8    243.0    248.4    253.9    259.4    265.L    269.4    276.9
to Iaoseo                           108.7    113.4    136.5    147.3    158.5    171.9    685.1    198.7    213.5    233.5    233.8    275.7
Rice                                  7.0     23.0      73.0      39.6      43.0     59.0      55.0      60.0      65.6      70.9     76.5      70.0
ornerc                                8.0     28.5      18.1      21.9      24.7      27.7     39.5      33.6      37.1      41.0     46.8    53.0
Subt-tal                         333.6    384.7    408.3    436.9    466.5    492.2    519.0    547.2    577.0    608.6    637.1    667.6
Forelat Trade - Total            431.7    470.8    496.8    527.8    5598.        588.3    617.8    648.9    681.7    716.4    748.1    782.0
CacaR  - Total                 1.067.9  1159.3  1.218.6  1.284.6  1.353.5  L.379.7  1.449.0  1.522.1  1.599.2  1.680.4  1,761.7  1.847.6
-usoogero ('0006                        1.822    2,006    2.101    2,201    2,305    2,415    2.532    2,655    2,78L    26919    3.061    3,210
hf u      .ic ..  1a.ld f-rty           39L      431       452       473       495       818      542       966       581       617      644       672
Traffic Praaortooa for r Prec    alotien 6No dredgitg ....eriol
1,005 cetric torga)
Withoon ProSert
River Port
Do.ea.lo Car-o                                                                        634       677       023       774       826      883       943
L.caI traffic                                                                       245       257       271       284      299       314       330
LIhtoe                                                                              389       420       454      490       927       569       613
Forat.. CarRo
Lighter-                                                                            589       616       648      682       717       748       782
Cargo  tral                                                                       1L223    1,285    1.373    1.456    1.543    1.631    1.725
Ft rueti Fort
Does.oic Cr                                                                           654       148       144       139       132      124       115
Break bulb                                                                          104        99        94       89        82        74        65
Cootauner                                                                            50        50        50        50       50        50        50
Puso.ge.r   ('000)                                                                  2.415    2.532    2565    2.4    3.9L9    3.06L            3 210
Bacolud ferry                                                                       518       542                91        617        4        672
Orhrr                                                                             1,896    1,990    2.089    2,193    2,302    2,417    2,538
lo.ilo 5r-  T-1a                                                                 L 377    1.444i   L.517   1L595    I P7          1,755    L.840
w01h Fro-oct
Riv-r Port
DmeertoC Carr-                                                                        258       271       286       300      316       332       349
Local traffIc                                                                       245       257       271       284      299       314       330
Llgbreroge                                                                           13        14        15        66       17        68        19
For-ton Port
Domeg rtt Ca rRo
Break balk                                                                         I14         99        94       89        82        74        65
PaoeenaaRa ('6001)                                                                  2j1       2,533    1.695    2.784    2.96        3.061    3.210
tacaiod far00                                                                       519       542       566       691      617        64       672
Other                                                                             1.896    1,980    2,089    2,193    2,302    2.417    2,538
Yev Port
Carae Diverted Froc Poreteoc Porr
Doeeesti  - ueoeasior                                                                50        50        50        50       50        50        50
aroLo  ivrd Fre i    Leaht-.                                                          965    1.024    1.087    61            127    1.298    1_37
Do.   lo376                                                                                   466       438       474       310      851       584
Forei.g                                                                             598       6L8       648       682      717       748       782
Careo - Total                                                                        1.019    1.074    1.137    1.206   1277    1.349    1.426
Dorlic                                                                              426       456       488       524       60       601       644
Cootaloer                                                                         298       314       330       348      366       386       406
Break balk                                                                        128       642       659       176      194       215       238
F-i
3reak bulk                                                                        589       618       648      682       767       748       782
Iloilo Cargo Total                                                                1377      1.444    1.517    1.995    1_675    1.755    6.840



- 67 -
Table 4.4
PHILlPPTNES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Zamboanza Port Traffic /a
('000 metric tons) )
Actual                                                            Forecast (Calendar Years)
1978      1980      198L      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Domestic Cargo Inward
Copra                          .83.0    181.2    186.1    191.3    196.6    202.1           207.9    213.8    220.0    226.4    233.3         239.9
Cereals                         73.2      79.3       82.5      85.6      89.4      93.0      96.6    100.3    104.2    108.2        112.4    116.8
Construction material           37.9      43.3       46.3      49.5      52.9      56.5      61.5      66.8      72.6      79.0      85.8       93.3
Other                          191.9    200.2    212.4    225.5    239.1          253.9    269.8    287.1       305.4    325.1      346.2    368.5
Subtotal                  486.0    504.0    527.3    551.9    578.0    605.5    635.8    668.0    702.2               738.7     777.4    818.5
Domestic Cargo Outward
Cereals                         27.4      29.9      31.3       32.7      34.1      35.7      36.7      37.8      39.0      40.1      41.4      42.6
Bottled cargo                   42.9      37.9      40.4       43.1      46.0      49.1      52.5      56.1      59.9      64.0      68.4       73.1
Industrial goods                33.7      38.5      41.2      44.0      47.1       50.3      54.6      59.1      64.1      69.6      75.5      81.9
Other                           70.6       79.4     84.1       89.3      94.7    100.4    106.7    113.3    120.4    127.9          135.7    144.3
Subrotacl                  174.6    195.7    197.0    209.1    221.9    235.5    250.4    266.3    283.4    301.6    321.0    341.9
Total Domestic Cargo    660.6    689.7    724.3    761.0    799.9    841.0    886.2    934.4    985.6  1.040.3  1.098.4  1.160.4
Foreign Trade                       8.7      10.1      10.9      11.7      12.6      13.6      14.5      15.5       16.5      17.6      18.7      20.0
Total Cargo                669.3    699.8    735.2    772.7    812.5    854.6    900.7    949.9  1.002.1  1.057.9  1.117.1  1,180.4
Passengers ('000)                1,666    1,859    1,965    2,076    2,193    2,317    2,453    2,595    2,745    2,904    3,072    3,250
Traffic Prolections for Project Evaluation /a
('000 metric tons)
Interisland Berths
Without Project
Cargo - Total                                                                  560.0    587.0    615.0    646.0    679.0          714.0    751.0
General                                                                        560.0    587.0    615.0    646.0    679-0          714.0    751.0
Containerized                                                                       -         -          
Passenger ('000)                                                                  367       388       409       432       457       482       509
With Proiect
Cargo - Total                                                                  560.0    587.0    615.0    646.0    679.0    714.0    751-0
General                                                                        430.0    448.0    467.0    488.0    511-0    535.0    560.0
Containerized                                                                  130.0    139.0    148.0    158.0    168.0    179.0    191.0
Passenger ('000)                                                                 367        388       409       432       457       482       509
Local Ferry Berths
Isabela Ts. Ferry
Cargo                                                                           60.0       64.0      68.0      73.0      77.0      82.0      88.0
Passengers ('000)                                                              1,645      1,742    1,844    1,951    2,064    2,185    2,312
Other
Cargo                                                                          235.0    250.0    266.0    283.0    302.0    321.0    341.0
Passengers ('000)                                                                 305       323       342       362       383       405       429
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.



-68 -                                 Table 4.5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Lighterage System Cost
(Pesos per ton)
Cargo                                                                            Total
traffic       Lighterage operation cost                  Ship time cost /d  lighterage
000    Barge    Barge    Cargo    Cargo   Total  Waiting Service                 system
tons   fleet/a  berth/b  handling damage  cost   time    time    Total  cost
/c       /c
50    101        36        11        10      158      28      66       94      252
100     59        26        11        10      106      23      66       89      195
150     43       23         11        10       87      19      66       85      172
200     37       21         11        10       79      19      66       85      164
250      31       22        11        10       74      17      66       83      157
300     29       21         11        10       72      17      66       83      154
350     39       23         11        10       83      16      66       82      165
400      37       22        11        10       80      16      66       82      162
450      37       22        11        10       80      16      66       82      162
500     43        21        11        10       85      16      66       82      167
550      41       21        11        10       83      16      66       82      165
600      38       20        11        10       79      16      66       82      161
650     40        20        11        10       81      16      66       82      163
700     37       20         11        10       78      15      66       81      159
750      37       20        11        10       78      15      66       81      159
800      37       19        11        10       77      14      66       80      157
850      37       19        11        10       77      14      66       80      157
900      36       19        11        10       76      14      66       80      156
950     37        19        11        10       77      14      66       80      157
1,000      36       19        11        10       76      14      66       80      156
/a Includes service craft.
/b Includes shore equipment.
/c Incremental costs due to double handling.
/d Uniform ship time cost (P per ship day in port) used for Cebu, Iloilo
and Cagayan; lower for Zamboanga.
Source: Consultant estimates.



- 69 -                              Table 4.6
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Cargo Handling Rates
(Tons per gang hour)
Port            Type of cargo/vessel         Without project        With project
Cagayan         Breakbulk - domestic /a            7.0                 7.0
Breakbulk - domestic lb           11.0                11.0
Breakbulk - foreign               15.5                15.5
Container                        40.0                45.0
Zamboanga       Breakbulk - domestic lb            8.0                11.0
Container                         -                  34.0
Foreign  Light-      Foreign    New
port    erage        port      port
Iloilo          Breakbulk - domestic /b        5.3/c   6.01L       5.3/c    11.0/d
Breakbulk - foreign           -  /e   6.0/d       -11.0/d
Container                    31.0      -          -         34.5
Zone   Rest of       Zone    Rest of
III /f   port        III /f    port
Cebu            Breakbulk - domestic /A         4.0      5.2         5.8       5.5
(quay         Container                       -      35.5          -       37.0
rehabi-
litation
Cebu            Breakbulk - domestic /R            5.6                11.0
(contain-     Breakbulk - foreign                7.7                11.0
er & for-     Container                         37.0                63.8
eign trade
terminal
/a Small ships.
lb Large ships.
/c Predominantly passenger ships.
/d Excluding molasses.
/e By 1984, all foreign cargo will be lightered.
If Port area to be rehabilitated.
/R Small and large ships.



- 70 -
Table 4.7
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Estimates of Cargo Losses
(Pesos per ton)
Port                   Cargo                  Without project /a    With project
Cagayan          Conventional - domestic                8.4                 4.7
- foreign                7.6                 4.2
Container                              1.7                 0.7
Container repair cost                  5.5                 5.5
Cebu             Conventional - domestic               11.3                 4.7
- foreign                5.7                  4.7
Container                              2.7                 0.5
Container repair cost                  5.5                 1.0
Iloilo           Conventional - domestic               11.3                 5.4/b
- foreign                7.5                 4.1
Container                              2.7                 0.7
Container repair cost                  5.5                 5.5
Zamboanga        Conventional - domestic               14.0                 7.0
Container                              -                   0.7
Container repair cost                  5.5                 5.5
/a  For lighterage, a net cargo loss savings of P 10 per ton has been used.
/b  New port only; higher losses expected for cargo which will continue to use
foreign port.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Cagayan: Summary of Project Benefits
(Million pesos)
Port costs without project               Port costs with project              Project benefits
Ship time  Diver-  Light-   Cargo                Ship time   Cargo              Port cost  Cargo loss
Year      in port    sion   erage   handling  Total   in port   handling  Total  savings /b  savings    Total
1984       42.1        1.4      0.0      1.2       44.7    13.9         1.0       14.9      28.7         2.7        31.4
1985       44.0        4.1      0.0      1.3       49.4    14.7         1.1       15.8      32.4         2.8        35.2
1986       46.1        6.8      0.0      1.4       54.3    15.4         1.3       16.7      36.4         2.9        39.3
1987       49.5        9.7      0.0      1.6       60.8    16.7         1.4       18.1      41.4         3.1        44.5
1988       56.7       12.9      0.0      1.7       71.3    17.8         1.5       19.3      50.4         3.2        53.6
1989       54.3       11.1    23.6       1.9       90.9    19.2         1.7       20.9      68.6         3.4        72.0
1990       51.7        9.0    40.8       2.1      103.6    20.6         1.9       22.5      79.9         3.6        83.5
1991       50.0        7.8    62.8       2.2      122.8    22.4         2.0       24.4      97.3         3.8       101.1
1992       48.4        6.4    86.2       2.4      143.4    24.4         2.1       26.5     115.9         4.0       119.9
1993-
2008/a    45.9         4.7   109.4       2.5      162.5    26.8         2.2       29.0    132.7          4.3       137.0
/a  By 1993, berth occupancy will reach 70%, justifying construction of additional facilities.
/b Adjusted to exclude benefits to foreign-owned vessels not recaptured by project port.
S



PHI1.IVPIIIES
THIRD PORTS PRO IeCT
Cagyvan:  i,ithimzatios of Ship tlaittiF Time Cost Uitho.t Prolect
('000 pesos)
UiL costs t0  ships of
aI icrCCiCttvcs to waiti.g for berth. in Cagayan (peso.tosn)                  Trafftc ('000 ton.)
Divorsilol                                                                             Re-aInKit in Cagavan:        Total cost tIC ships of alternallves to and             f-rn # lpr  'If Caic:ya.1 le  r.otl
-OS    tts :    Ship ti,-  in port COsL:  Lighter-                Dlverted to:          At      Light-              Diversion cost             ShIp time in port cost           lighter-   Total    Cost
Y-or    Sintcr  lligan  Cag.ya-  Sint.r  lliga-  age coat Total  Sinter  iligan  Total  berth   erage   Total  SI.ler  lligan  Total  Stnter  lligan  CHgayan   Total  age cost   colt   per t-,
1980      11.0    4(0.0     29.0    23.6                            776       0        0       0    776        0       776       0        0        0       0         0   22,508  22.508            0    22,508   29.0
1981      11.0    40.0       29.0    23.6                           824      46        0     48    776         0       776    528         0      528  1,133          0   22.5038  23,641           0    24.169    29.3
1982      1i.0    40.1       29.0    23.6                           877    101         0    101    776         0       776  1,11t         0   1.111  2,384           0   22,508  24.892           (I   26,0033   29.6
1983      11.0    40.0      31.5    23.6                            936    135         0    135    801         0       801  1,485         0   1,4R5  3,186           0   25,211  28,3)7            0    29,882   31.9
1984      11.0    40). 0    44.9    23.6    28.9                  1.000    130         0    130    870         0       870  1,430         0   1.430  3,068           0   39,058  42,126            0    41.556   43. t
1985      11.0    40.1)        /     23.6    29.4                 1,062     125      67    192    870          0       870  1,375   2,680   4.055  2,950    1,970   39,058  43,978                 0    48.(133   45.2
19861     1t.0    4(1.11 O           23.6    33.1                 L.tZ6    120      136    256    870          0       870  1,320   5,440   6.760  2,832    4,171    19.058  46.061                0    52.821    46.9
1987      11.0    40.1 °             23.6    36.4                 1.196    115      211    326    870          0       870  1,265   8,440   9.705  2,714         7,680   39,058  49.452            0    59,157   49.5
198      11.(    40.0       /c    23.6    51.8                 1,271     110      291    401    870          0       870  1,210  11,640  12.850  2,596   15,074    39,058  56,728                0    69,578   54.7
199      11.0    40. i        Ls    23.6       /d    183.0    1.351        105     247    352    870        129       999  1,155   9,880  11,035  2.415    12.795   39.3)58  54,268   23,607           88,9101  1,5.11
1990      11.(1    41.11       /c    23.6              155.0    1,433    102        198    301)   870        263    1.133  1,122    7.920   9,042  2,407    10.256   39.058  51,721   40,765    101,5Z8   /11.8
1991      11.0    4(1.()     .L:    23.6               163.0    1,522    100       167    267    870        385    1,255  1,100   6.680   7,780  !,360    8,651    39,058  50.069   62.755    120,6014   79.Z
1992     11.0    40.(1        /      23.6              166.0    1,618       95      134    229    870        519    1,389  1,045   5.360   6,405  2.242    6.941    39,058  48,421    86,154    140,980   81.1
1993-
l1)08Lj   11.0    40.0 '             23.6               164.0    1,719      90       92     182    870       667    1,537    990   3,680   4,670  2,124    4,766   39,058  45,948  109,388t    I 60,0)h   9J.I
/d  ISCIOCIcs d-.dglog ill Iligon.
/b  iotcr in o 1rAn-Le purti only r-sidoal capacity available to diverted cargo.
/A  Inff,i eCICCOOc ICC Cag.yan will start in 1984.
/   Iofiol,e q--c I, MgIllgaC CCt1   tart In 1,989 if it handles traffic diverted from C.gayan.
L,  Does (Co1  1 iCId. I-CIOoental CoOog±sIioI C   CCt    I llgan's o*I  trolflic.
/I  8y 1993, bert, s1ccCCpO,-cy Iil t1hC c  11rov.d port of Cagayan will roach 701, JostLfying con.tr-,ctton of additIonal facIItIes.



- 73 -
Table 4.10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Cebu: Summary of Project Benefits
(Million Pesos)
Year           Container and Foreign Trade Terminal          Quay Rehabilitation
Ship      Cargo      Cargo    Total       Cargo     Cargo    Total
time sav-  handling    loss   benefits  handling   loss    benefits
ings /a   savings   savings               savings   savings    /b
1983                                                        4.7       3.3       8.0
1984           19.2         10.4      9.0       38.6       10.4       7.3      17.7
1985           20.7         11.9     10.1       42.6       11.9       8.5      20.4
1986           22.4         13.5     11.3       47.2       12.6       9.1      21.7
1987           24.3         15.1     12.4       51.8       13.9      10.1      24.0
1988           25.7         16.6     13.4       55.7       15.3      11.2      26.5
1989           27.1         18.3     14.5       60.0       16.8      12.4      29.2
1990           28.6         20.1     15.7       64.4       18.5      13.7      32.2
1991           29.7         22.1     17.0       68.7       19.1      14.2      33.3
1992           30.4         24.1     18.4       72.8       19.8      14.7      34.5
1993-2002/c   29.8          26.4     19.9       76.1       20.5      15.2      35.7
2003-2008      29.8         26.4     19.9       76.1       10.2       7.6       17.8
/a  Ship waiting time savings will result mostly from faster berth thruput; the
availability of berths will change only marginally with the project.
/b The unpaved quay section is used by small vessels whose opportunity cost of
time is low as evidenced by the fact that many stay in the port longer than
required for cargo handling operations. Because of this, ship service time
savings resulting from the project will be largely illusory and have not
been considered in the appraisal.
tc By 1993 berth occupancy will exceed 70% justifying construction of addi-
tional facilities.



- 74 -                                      Table 4.11
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Iloilo: Sumnary of Prolect Benefits
(Million pesos)
DEEPWATER PORT SYSTEM COST WITHOUT PROJECT
Lighterage System Cost
Traffic ('000 tons)                        Cost                      Container Traffic   Total
Existing        New                 Existing        New       Total    Traffic        Cost       cost
Year  facilities  facilities  Total   facilities  facilities  cost    ('000 tons)
1984      920            45         965       126.0         11.3      137.3        50.0        2.4      139.7
1985      920           104       1,024       126.0         20.3      146.3        50.0        2.4       148.7
1986      920           167       1,087       126.0         29.2      155.2        50.0        2.4       157.6
1987      920          236        1,156       126.0         37.8      163.8        50.0        2.4      166.2
1988      920           307       1,227       126.0         47.6      173.6        50.0        2.4      176.0
1989      920           379       1,299       126.0         62.2      188.2        50.0        2.4      190.6
1990      920           456       1,376       126.0         73.9      199.9        50.0        2.4      202.3
1991      920           525       1,445       126.0         87.2      213.2        50.0        2.4      215.6
1992-  } 920            525       1,445       126.0         87.2      213.2        50.0        2.4      215.6
2008/a
NEW PORT SYSTEM COST AND SAVINGS
Cost                       Cost
Traffic ('COO  tons)            Ship time    Cargo         Cargo    Total    without
Year      Container   Other   Total           in port    handling    loss           cost    project  Savings
1984          298        717     1,015           19.5         3.1        3.4        26.0      139.7    113.7
1985          314        760    1,074           21.2          3.3        3.6        28.1      148.7     120.6
1986          330        807    1,137            23.2         3.5        3.8        30.5      157.6     127.1
1987          348        858     1,206           25.6         3.7         4.0       33.3      166.2     132.9
1988          366        911     1,277           28.4         3.9        4.3        36.6      176.0     139.4
1989          386        963     1,349           31.7         4.2        4.5        40.4      190.6     150.2
1990          406      1,020     1,426           35.8         4.4        4.8        45.0      202.3     157.3
1991          425      1,070    1,495            40.5         4.6         5.0       50.1      215.6     165.5
1992-       } 425     1,070      1,495           40.5         4.6         5.0       50.1      215.6     165.5
2008/a
/a By 1992 bertl occupancy will exceed 70%, justifying construction of new facilities.



- 75 -                              Table 4,12
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Zamboanga: Summary of Project Benefits
(Thousand pesos)
Ship       Avoidable    Avoidable        Cargo         Cargo
time       diversion    lighterage    handling         loss        Total
Year        savings       costs          costs        savings      savings    benefits
/a           /a
1984         7,206         295                0        2,746        3,920       14,167
1985         9,844         273                0        2,892        4,105       17,114
1986        14,987         251                0        3,042        4,304       22,584
1987        37,130         224                0        3,208        4,518       45,080
1988        36,685         198           7,800         3,381        4,750       52,814
1989        36,190         172          13,600         3,568        4,993       54,955
1990        35,644         150          16,470         3,765        5,257       61,286
1991        35,701         132          19,440         3,945        5,509       64,727
1992        34,389         110          23,985         4,137        5,775       68,396
1993-
2008/b      33,582          88          27,639         4,332        6,050       71,691
/a  Starting in 1988, cargo handling and loss savings are also included in
avoidable lighterage cost.
/b By 1993, berth occupancy will exceed 70%, justifying construction of addi-
tional facilities.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Zamboanga:  M   mization of Ship Waiting Time Cost Without Project
('000 pesos)
|         Unit costs to ships of             |                                            I   Total cost to ships of alternatives to and using         l
| alternatives to waiting for berth in    |               Traffic ('000 tons)             |                    Port of Zamboanga                       |
Zamboanga                                           I                     l                                                             l
| Land      Ship time in port                |                  Traffic remaining         |                                                            | Total
tdiversion     cost (FL/ton)                 I       Diverted       in Zamboanga          I  Land            Ship time in port                         I cost
I cost      Zambo-   Diversion   Light-    I         traffic  Total  At berth  Light-   I diversion   Zambo-   Diversion               Light-   Total I per ton
Year | P/ton      anga       port la   erage /b A   Total  limit                      erage    I   cost        anga       port      Total   erage    cost    (Pesos)
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                               I                                                            I
1984 I  4.4       22.0       11.8                 I  560    67       493     493         0     I    295      10,837       791     11,628         0   11,923 I   21.3
1985 I  4.4       26.0       11.8                 I  587    62       525     525         0     I    273      13,666       732     14,398         0   14,671 I   25.0  o
1986 I  4.4       34.1       11.8                 I  615    57       558     558         0     I    251      19,012      673      19,685         0   19,936 I   32.4
1987 I  4.4       69.8       11.8                 I  646    51       595     595         0     I    224      41,552      602      42,154         0   42,378 I   65.6
1988 I  4.4        /c        11.8                 I  679    45       634     595        39     I    198      41,552      531      42,083    7,800   50,081 I   73.8
1989 I  4.4                  11.8                 I   714    39      675     595        80     I    172      41,552      460      42,012   13,600   55,784 I   78.1
1990 I  4.4                  11.8                 I   751    34      717     595       122     I    150      41,552      401      41,953   16,470   58,573 I   78.0
1991 I  4.4                  11.8                 I   787    30      757     595       162     I    132      41,552      354      41,906   19,440   61,478 I   78.1
1992 I  4.4                  11.8                 I  825    25       800     595       205     I    110      41,552      295      41,847   23,985   65,942 I   79.9
1993-1                                            l
2008/d   4.4                 11.8                 |  864    20       844     595       249     I     88      41,552      236      41,778   27,369   69,235 I  80.1
/a  Diversion port is a private port; only residual capacity available to diverted cargo.
/b  See Table 4.5.
/c  Infinite queue in Zamboanga will start in 1988.
Id  By 1993, berth occupancy in the improved port of Zamboanga will exceed 70i, justifying construction of additional facilities.



- 77 -
Table 4.14
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Prolect Costs for Economic Evaluation /a
(Million Pesos)
CEBU                     | Iloilo | Cagayan | Zamboanga
Year    Container   Quay
terminal  | rehabilitation   Total
_ _ _  _    _ 1 -_    _     _        _        _     1  _ _     .1  _ _
1981      59.8            26.2          86.0    42.5  i   37.5  |   21.4
1982      92.6    I       13.3        I 105.9 I 79.5  I  51.1  I  46.2
1983      76.6            11.4       I 88.0 I 62.0  1  40.1           40.5
1984      23.1    I        4.7       | 27.8 |  19.0  |   17.2  |   16.2
1985       7.4    I        0.9       1  8.3 i   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1986       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1987       7.4    I        0.9       I   8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1988       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  1    3.1
1989       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1990       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1991       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1992       7.4    I        0.9       1  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1993       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1994       7.4    I        0.9       I   8.3 I  13.9  I   18.4  I    9.6
1995       7.4    I        0.9       I   8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1996       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1997       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1998       7.4             0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
1999      57.6    I        0.9       i 58.5 I   3.7  I    3.2  1    3.1
2000       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2001       7.4    I        0.9        I   8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2002       7.4    I        0.9        I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  1    3.1
2003       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2004       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I  13.9  1   18.4  I    9.6
2005        7.4    I       0.9       I   8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2006       7.4    I        0.9           8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2007       7.4    I        0.9       I  8.3 I   3.7  I    3.2  1    3.1
2008       7.4    I        0.5       I   7.9 I   3.7  I    3.2  I    3.1
2009/b   -67.2     1     -13.5        j -80.7 1 -45.2  | -44.6  | -19.4
Total    412.7    1       63.3        | 476.0 | 267.0  | 215.1  i  192.3
/a  Project costs have been adjusted as follows:
1.  Price contingencies, taxes and duties have been excluded;
2. All projects are fully operational as of January 1984
(Cebu Quay rehabilitation as of July 1, 1983).
3. Maintenance cost estimated at 2% of civil works cost and 7.5% of
equipment cost;
4. Project life: 25 years for civil works except for land and
dredging assumed to have infinite lives; 15 years for container
equipment; 10 years for other equipment.
5. Unskilled labor cost shadow-priced at 80% of market cost and
applied to 25% of civil works cost and annual maintenance cost.
/b Salvage value.



- 78 -
Table 5.1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Financial Forecasts - Methodology and Principal Assumptions
1.        Traffic.  Traffic will increase as forecast in Tables 2.1 & 4.1 to
4.4.
2.        Operating Revenues
(a) Basic
PPA Revenues have been calculated on the basis of traffic forecasts
referred to above, using current PPA tariffs.
(b) Tariff Increases
Increases across the board have been assumed as follows:
Overall % increase over forecast
revenue based on 1979 tariffs
Type of port                      January 1, 1981       January 1, 1984
Modernized                             50% /a                100% /b
Partially modernized                   35% /c                 70%
Nonmodernized                          25%                    60%
Effective overall increase             45%                   80%
/a e.g., Manila, Cagayan and General Santos.
/b e.g., Manila and all project ports.
/c e.g., Cebu in 1981 following rehabilitation of existing wharves.
3.        Operating Expenses
Personnel Costs. An annual incremental increase of 5% is assumed.
Operative staffing is based on traffic growth. Administrative staffing is
unchanged at PMUs. A small staffing growth is assumed for headquarters
administration.



- 79 -                              Table 5.1
Page 2
Maintenance. Based on past performance and factors such as expected
dredging requirements. Excluding dredging, normal maintenance cost projec-
tions (excluding inflation factor) are about 1.5% of gross fixed assets in use
excluding land. However, deferred maintenance costs are inclueel during the
period 1981/82 which raises overall PPA maintenance costs to about 4% of gross
fixed assets in those years.
Depreciation. PPA bases depreciation on the life and residual value
of each asset using the straight line method. This method has also been
applied to assets constructed/procured under the proposed project. The esti-
mated life of some assets was recently revised in agreement with ADB; the
revisions are acceptable to the Bank. The overall percentage of depreciation
to gross fixed assets in use (excluding land) is about 3% which is considered
adequate.
Interest Charges. Based on existing loan agreements and assuming a
Third Ports Project Bank loan of US$67 million at 8.25% p.a. interest for
20 years with five years grace.
Income Tax. In view of PPA's capital expenditure program during
the period 1980-86, no tax will be payable.
General Inflation Factor. General inflation is assumed to raise
costs, excluding depreciation and interest charges, at an annual rate of 10%.
4.        Nonoperating Income
Surplus cash in Bank deposits/government securities assumed to earn
8% p.a.
5.        Balance Sheets
Receivables. Based on previous experience these are calculated as
5% of revenue.
Accounts Payable. Assumed to be 10% of total cash expenses includ-
ing capital works expenditure.
Government Equity. This is assumed to increase during the period
1982-84 by P 670 million as a contribution towards port civil works other
than the project, dredging arrears and access roads which are considered
national roads financable by the Government:
P million
Port civil works (non-project)                490
Access roads (excluding Bank financing)        20
Dredging arrears                              160
Total                                    670



- 80 -                              Table 5.1
Page 3
Amortization of Dredging Arrears. Assumed to be P 40 million p.a.
over 4 years commencing 1983.
Amortization of Preoperating Expenses. No change in present PPA
policy is assumed in respect of amortization of preoperating expenses.
6.        Dredging Fleet/Cargo Handling Equipment
It is assumed that PPA's dredging fleet and cargo handling equip-
ment (to be acquired) will be leased to operating companies which will be
responsible for maintenance to agreed standards, and will utilize the assets
for PPA and private sector work. The lease terms will provide PPA with funds
adequate to meet interest on debt, asset depreciation and give a reasonable
return on capital outlay. This sum has been computed as P 65 million in a
full year of operation, excluding any necessary adjustments for future gene-
ral inflation. PPA will pay the lessee at agreed rates for any dredging
performed for PPA.



- 81 -
Table 5.2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Port Management Unit - Cagavan de Oro
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Reven.se
Foreign
Charges against 7esns1s               0.30    0.30  0.30   0.31   0.33   0.35   0.38   0.40   0.43
Charges against cargo                  0.40    0.69  1.04   1.09   1.14   1.20   1.26   1.33   1.40
Domestic
Charges against vessels               0.20    0.23  0.25   0.26   0.27   0.29   0.31   0.32   0.34
Charges against cargo                  0.40    0.36  0.38   0.40   0.42   0.44   0.46   0.48   0.50
Other
Storage charges                       0.10    0.13  0.13   0.13   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.15   0.15
Share in arrastre income               1.20    1.40  1.55   1.64   1.74   1.84   1.95   2.07   2.20
Total Port Operating Revenue          2.60    3.11  3.65   3.83   4.04   4.26   4.50   4.75   5.02
Revenue from private ports                 3.40    3.90  4.19   4.48   4.97   5.13   5.49   5.92   6.38
Subtotal                             6.00    7.01  7.84   8.31   9.01   9.39   9.99  10.67  11.40
Adjustment for rate increases              -        -     -       4.15   4.50   4.69   9.99  10.67  11.40
Total Operating Revenue              6.00    7.01  7.84  12.46  13.51  14.08  19.98  21.34  22.80
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                          0.70    0.75  1.03   1.10   1.19   1.28   1.38   1.49   1.61
Maintenance costs                        0.20    0.20  0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20
Other costs                              0.40    0.40  0.4i   0.56   0.59   0.61   0.74   0.78   0.82
Share of PPA headquarters expenses    0.30    0.41  0.42   0.43   0.45   0.46   0.47   0.49   0.50
Subtotal                              1.60    1.76  2.06   2.29   2.43   2.55   2.79   2.96   3.13
Allowance for price inflation            -       -      0.21   0.48   0.80   1.17   1.70   2.28   2.97
Subtotal                              1.60    1.76  2.27   2.77   3.23   3.72   4.49   5.24   6.10
Depreciation                             0.30    1.88  1.88   1.89   1.82   1.82   6.80   6.80   6.80
Total Port Operating Expenses         1.90    3.64  4.15   4.66   5.05   5.54  11.29  12.04  12.90
Net Operating Revenue                 4.10    3.37  3.69   7.80   8.46   8.54   8.69   9.30   9.90
Ratios
Port operating ratio (%)                   32      52    53      37      37      39     56      56     57
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979



- 82 -
Table 5.3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Port Management Unit - Cebu
Prolected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Revenue
Foreign
Charges against vessels                 0.50   0.53   0.56   0.60   0.64   0.68   0.79   0.92   1.05
Charges against cargo                   0.70   0.86   0.93   1.02   1.10   1.18   1.38   1.60   1.90
Domestic
Charges against vessels                 1.40   1.45   1.53   1.61   1.70   1.76   1.83   1.90   2.00
Charges against cargo                   1.40   1.52   1.60   1.70   1.80   1.90   2.00   2.12   2.25
Other
Storage charges                         1.10   1.25   1.32   1.38   1.46   1.52   1.60   1.70   1.80
Share in arrastre income                5.30   4.60   5.00   5.40   5.80   6.20   6.60   7.05   7.60
Total Port Operating Revenue          10.40  10-21  10.94  11.71  12.50  13.24  14.20  15.29  16.60
Revenue from private ports                  1.60   1.60   1.80   2.00   2.20   2.40   2.60   2.80   3.00
Subtotal                             12.00  11.81  12.74  13.71  14.70  15.64  16.80  18.09  19.60
Adjustment for rate increases               -       -       -       4.80   5.15   5.47  16.80  18.09  19.60
Total Operating Revenue               12.00  11.81  12.74  18.51  19.85  21.11  33.60  36.18  39.20
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                           2.30   2.47   3.38   3.63   3.91   4.22   4.55   4.92   5.33
Maintenance costs                         2.60   1.00   1.50   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20
Other costs                               1.00   1.05   1.07   1.41   1.45   1.50   1.81   1.90   2.00
Share of PPA headquarters expenses        1.00   1.58   1.64   1.68   1.72   1.76   1.83   1.93   2.01
Subtotal                              6.90   6.10   7.59   7.92   8.28   8.68   9.39   9.95  10.54
Allowance for price inflation             -       -      0.75   1.66   2.70   3.90   5.60   7.50   9.80
Subtotal                               6.90   6.10   8.34   9.58  10.98  12.58  14.99  17.45  20.34
Depreciation                              2.70   2.40   2.42   2.44   2.32   3.08  10.80  10.80  10.80
Total Port Operating Expenses          9.60   8.50  10.76  12.02  13.30  15.66  25.79  28.25  31.14
Net Operating Revenue                  2.40   3.31   1.98   6.49   6.58   5.45   7.81   7.93   8.06
Ratios
Port operating ratio (%)                    80      72      84     65      67      74      77      78     79
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979



- 83 -
Table 5.4
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Port 11anagement Unit - Iloilo
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Revenue
Foreign
Charges against vessels                  0.60   0.66   0.71   0.75   0.82   0.90   1.10   1.15   1.22
Charges against cargo                    1.00   1.40   1.49   1.57   1.66   1.76   2.09   2.18   2.28
Domestic
Charges against vessels                  0.50   0.70   0.74   0.79   0.83   0.87   0.88   0.93   0.97
Charges against cargo                    0.80   0.80   0.84   0.88   0.93   0.98   1.04   1.10   1.16
Other
Storage charges                          0.10   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.09
Share in arrastre income                 2.50   2.90   3.10   3.31   3.51   3.73   4.40   4.62   4.85
Total Port Operating Revenue            5.50   6.54   6.96   7.38   7.84   8.33   9.60  10.07  10.57
Revenue from private ports                    1.40   1.66   1.75   1.85   1.96   2.07   2.20   2.33   2.47
Subtotal                                6.90   8.20   8.71   9.23   9.80  10.40  11.80  12.40  13.04
Adjustment for rate increases                -       -       -       2.31   2.45   2.60  11.80  12.40  13.04
Total Operating Revenue                 6.90   8.20   8.71  11.54  12.25  13.00  23.60  24.80  26.08
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                            1.30   1.42   1.93   2.06   2.20   2.36   2.47   2.60   2.85
Maintenance costs                          1.60   1.00   1.50   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Other costs                                0.60   0.66   0.68   0.83   0.85   0.88   1.01   1.04   1.06
Share of PPA headquarters expenses         0.70   0.90   0.93   0.94   0.97   0.99   1.00   1.02   1.03
Subtotal                                4.20   3.98   5.04   4.83   5.02   5.23   5.48   5.66   5.94
Allowance for price inflation              -       -       0.50   0.94   1.60   2.40   3.30   4.30   5.60
Subtotal                                4.20   3.98   5.54   5.77   6.62   7.63   8.78   9.96  11.54
Depreciation                               3.30   2.06   2.08   2.09   2.01   1.96   8.50   8.50   8.50
Total Port Operating Expenses           7.50   6.04   7.62   7.86   8.63   9.59  17.28  18.46  20.04
Net Operating Revenue                  (0.60)  2.16   1.09   3.68   3.62   3.41   6.32   6.34   6.04
Ratios
Port operating ratio (%)                    109      74      87     68      70      74      73      74     77
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979



- 84 -
Table 5.5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Port Qlanagement Unit - Zamboanga
Prolected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   1984   1985   1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Revenue
Foreian
Charges against vessels                  0.20    0.20  0.20  0.21  0.21  0.21   0.23   0.24   0.25
Charges against cargo                    0.60    0.64  0.67  0.70  0.73  0.80   0.90   0.97   1.05
Domestic
Charges against vessels                  0.60    0.60  0.63  0.66  0.70  0.73   0.80   0.85   0.90
Charges against cargo                    0.50    0.53  0.56  0.59  0.62  0.65   0.68   0.72   0.76
Other
Storage charges                          -       0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.04   0.10   0.11   0.12
Share in arrastre income                 0.60    0.70  0.79  0.84  0.88  0.93   0.97   1.02   1.07
Total Port OperatinR Revenue            2.50    2.70  2.88  3.03  3.17  3.36   3.68   3.91   4.15
Revenue from private ports                   1.20    1.20  1.28  1.36  1.44  1.53   1.62   1.71   1.80
Subtotal                                3.70    3.90  4.16  4.39  4.61  4.89   5.30   5.62   5.95
Adjustment for rate increases                -        -     -      1.10  1.15  1.22   5.30   5.62   5.95
Total Operating Revenue                 3.70    3.90  4.16  5.49  5.76  6.11  10.60  11.24  11.90
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                            0.70    0.74  0.99  1.06  1.14  1.22   1.31   1.41   1.51
Maintenance costs                          1.10    0.30  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20
Other costs                                0.50    0.55  0.55  0.62  0.62  0.63   0.68   0.70   0.70
Share of PPA headquarters expenses         0.20    0.29  0.26  0.26  0.26  0.27   0.27   0.28   0.28
Subtotal                                2.50    1.88  2.00  2.14  2.22  2.32   2.46   2.59   2.69
Allowance for price inflation              -        -     0.20  0.45  0.67  0.99   1.50   1.99   2.55
Subtotal                                2.50    1.88  2.20  2.59  2.89  3.31   3.96   4.58   5.24
Depreciation                               1.80    0.74  0.74  0.74  0.70  0.70   5.40   5.40   5.40
Total Port Operating Expenses           4.30    2.62  2.94  3.33  3.59  4.01   8.36   8.98   9.64
Net Operating Revenue                  (0.60)   1.28  1.22  2.16  2.17  2.10   2.24   2.26   2.26
Ratios
Port operating ratio (%)                    116       67    71    61    62    66        79     80      81
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979
l



- 85 -
Table 5.6
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Port Management Unit - Manila
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Revenue
Foreign
Charges against vessels                 12.9    13.6   14.4   15.2   16.1   17.1   18.2   19.4   20.7
Charges against cargo                   48.2    49.0   51.9   55.3   58.8   62.6   66.7   71.0   75.6
Domestic
Charges against vessels                  1.9      1.9    1.9    2.0    2.1    2.2    2.3    2.4    2.6
Charges against cargo                    3.8      4.2    4.5    4.8    5.1    5.4    5.7    6.0    6.4
Other
Storage charges                         20.9    21.9   23.3   24.9   26.5   28.3   30.2   32.2   34.3
Share in arrastre income                33.3    35.4   37.7   40.2   42.8   45.6   48.6   51.7   55.1
Total Port Operating Revenue          121.0   126.0  133.7  142.4  151.4  161.2  171.7  182.7  194.7
Revenue from private ports                   0.1    15.0   23.0   24.5   26.0   27.7   29.6   31.5   33.5
Subtotal                              121.1   141.0  156.7  166.9  177.4  188.9  201.3  214.2  228.2
Adjustment for rate increases                -        -       -      83.5   88.7   94.5  201.3  214.2  228.2
Total Operating Revenue               121.1   141.0  156.7  250.4  266.1  283.4  402.6  428.4  456.4
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                            7.6      8.2   11.3   12.3   13.3   14.5   15.7   17.1   18.7
Maintenance costs                         18.0    15.0   25.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   55.0   55.0   55.0
Other costs                                4.8      5.0    5.3    5.5    5.8    6.1    6.4    6.7    7.2
Share of PPA headquarters expenses        11.7    17.8   18.8   19.4   20.0   20.7   21.4   22.0   22.8
Suibtotal                              42.1    46.0   60.4   82.2   84.1   86.3   98.5  100.8  103.7
Allowance for price inflation              -        -       6.0   13.0   27.0   39.0   45.0   60.0   79.0
Subtotal                               42.1    46.0   66.4   95.2  111.1  125.3  143.5  160.8  182.7
Depreciation                              46.4    28.6   30.8   47.3   54.3   55.1   62.6   62.6   62.6
Total Port Operating Expenses          88.5    74.6   97.2  142.5  165.4  180.4  206.1  223.4  245.3
Net Operating Revenue                  32.6    66.4   59.5  107.9  100.7  103.0  196.5  205.0  211.1
Ratios
Port operating ratio (x)                    73       53   ' 62       57     62      64      51      52      54
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979



- 86 -
Table 5.7
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Other Port Mana2ement Units
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
(Actual)
Port Operating Revenue
Foreign
Charges against vessels                   3.60    3.67    3.70    3.74    3.80    3.85    3.90    3.97    4.04
Charges against cargo                     6.80    7.00    7.30    7.74    8.20    8.70    9.20    9.75   10.34
Domestic
Charges against vessels                   2.10    2.20    2.30    2.44    2.59    2.75    2.90    3.07    3.25
Charges against cargo                     3.30    3.40    3.60    3.82    4.05    4.30    4.56    4.83            5.12
Other
Storage charges                           0.80    0.83    0.87    0.91    0.95    1.00    1.05    1.10    1.16
Share in arrastre income                  8.90    9.30    9.86   10.45   11.08   11.75   12.45   13.20   14.00
Total Port Operating Revenue            25.50   26.40   27.63   29.10   30.67   32.35   34.06   35.92   37.91
Revenue from private ports                    42.50   42.60   44.70   47.40   50.20   53.20   56.40   59.80   63.40
Subtotal                                68.00   69.00   72.33   76.50   80.87   85.55   90.46   95.72  101.31
Adjustment for rate increases                  -        -        -      26.77   28.30   29.95   62.19   65.80   69.65
Total Operating Revenue                 68.00   69.00   72.33  103.27  109.17  115.50  152.65  161.52  170.96
Port Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                             9.50   10.12   13.70   14.54   15.47   16.46   17.53   18.63   19.91
Maintenance costs                            6.20    4.30   14.50   28.00   28.00   28.00   28.00   28.00   28.00
Other costs                                 5.30    5.43    5.53    6.61        6.80    6.97    7.98    8.17    8.47
Share of PPA headquarters expenses          2.60    3.92    4.02    4.04    4.07    4.11    4.16    4.23    4.27
Subtotal                                23.60   23.77   37.75   53.19   54.34   55.54   57.67   59.03   60.65
Allowance for price inflation               -        -        3.77   11.00   17.00   25.00   30.00   38.00   46.00
Subtotal                                23.60   23.77   41.52   64.19   71.34   80.54   87.67   97.03  106.65
Depreciation                               13.00    8.60   10.40   18.50   22.00   23.50   28.00   35.50   44.50
Total Port Operating Expenses           36.60   32.37   51.92   82.69   93.34  104.04  115.67  132.53  151.15
Net Operating Revenue                   31.40   36.63   20.41   20.58   15.83   11.46   36.98   28.99   19.81
Ratios
Port operating ratio (x)                      54       47       72       80       85       89       75       81       88
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
December 1979



- 87 -                                                Table 5.8
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
ALL Port Management Units
Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1979-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
(Actual)
Operating Revenue
PMU operating revenue                        168      175      186      197      210    223       238      253      269
Revenue from private ports                     50       66       77      81       87      92       98      104      111
Revenue from hire of dredgers/equipment    -             -       -        -        -      10       65       65       65
Subtotal                                  218      241      263      278      297    325      401      422      445
Adjustment for rate increases                   -        -        -     123      130    138       313      340      368
Total Operating Revenue                   218      241      263      401      427    463      714      762      813
Operating Expenses
Personnel costs                               22        24      32       35       37      40       43       46       50
Maintenance costs                              30       22      43        75      75      75       85       85       85
Other costs                                    13       13       14      15       16      17       19       19       20
PPA headquarters expenses                     17       25       26       27       28      28       29       30       31
Subtotal                                   82       84      115      152      156    160      176      180      186
Allowance for price inflation                   -        -       12      27       50      73       87      114      146
Subtotal                                   82       84      127      179      206    233      263      294      332
Depreciation                                   67      44       48        73      83      95      141      148      157
Total Operating Expenses                  149      128      175      252      289    328      404      442      489
Net Operating Revenue                      69      113       88      149      138    135       310      320     324
Amortization - preoperating expenses             33       33       33       33       33      -        -        -        -
- dredging arrears                 -        -        -        -        -      40       40       40       40
Investment income                                26       30      26       21       15       8        7        8        8
Interest charges                                  7        7        9       20      41      64       77       82       88
Technical assistance                              -        -        -       13       13      -        -        -        -
Net Income                                 55      103       72      104       66      39      200     206      204
Ratios
Port operating ratio                           68      53       67       63       68      71       57       58       60
Rate of return on average net
fixed assets in use                        4.4      6.8      4.7      6.9      5.9    5.1      8.6      7.3      7.2
Interest charge coverage (times)                 12       19       11        7     2.7    1.2       3.1      3.0      2.7
Debt service coverage (times)                    15       12        9        8     4.0    2.0       3.1      3.0      2.3
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
April 1980



- 88 -                                                Table 5.9
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Consolidated Balance Sheet - December 31. 1978-86
(In million pesos)
1978    1979    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
(Actual)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and deposits                          392      392      283      205      123    124       125      133      118
Accounts receivable                         11       12       13       20       21      22       31       34       36
Others                                       9        9        9        9        9       9        9        9        9
Total Current Assets                      412      413      305      234      153    155       165      176      163
Investments
Bond sinking fund                           10       11       12       12       10      10       11       11       12
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets in use                2,270   2,470   2,881   3,111   3,311  3,911   5,512   5,762   6,062
Less accumulated depreciation              687      731      779      852      935  1,030   1,171   1,319   1,476
Net fixed assets in use                  1,583   1,739   2,032   2,259   2,376  2,881   4,341   4,443   4,586
Work in progress                           129       89      104      425   1,165  1,315        129      329      479
Total Net Fixed Assets                  1,712   1.828   2,136   2,684   3,541  4.196   4,470   4,772   5,065
Deferred Expenditure
Preoperating expenses                      134      100       67       34        -       -        -        -        -
Dredging arrears                              -       -        -       40      160    120        80       40        -
Other Assets                                    2        2        2        2        2      2        2        2        2
Total Assets                            2,270   2,354   2,522   3.006   3,866  4,483   4.728   5,001   5.242
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Account payable                             53       17       22       59      107      98       35       52       70
Others                                      34       34       34       34       34      34       34       34       34
Total Current Liabilities                  87       51       56       93      141    132        69       86     104
Long-term Liabilities
Foreign loans outstanding                   69       86      139      486      989  1,260   1,272   1,325   1,347
Bonds payable                               15       15       15       15       12      12       12       12       12
Others                                       2        2       39       35       31      27       23       19       15
Total Long-term Liabilities                86      103      193      536   1,032  1,299   1,307   1,356   1,374
Equity
Government capital contributions         2,047   2,047   2,047   2,047   2,297  2,617   2,717   2,717   2,717
Retained earnings                           50      153      226      330      396    435       635      842   1,047
Total Equity                            2.097   2,200   2,273   2,377   2,693  3,052   3,352   3,559   3,764
Total Liabilities and Equity            2,270   2,354   2,522   3,006   3.866  4,483   4,728   5.001   5.242
Current ratio                                   4.7     8.1      5.4      2.5      1.1    1.2       2.4      2.0      1.5
Debt/equity ratio                              4/96    4/96    8/92   18/82   27/73  30/70   28/72   28/72   27/73
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
April 1980



- 89-                                                      Table 5.10
PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Philippine Ports Authority
Cash Flow Projections 1979-86
(In million pesos)
Total
1979     1980     1981   1982    1983    1984   1980-84    %           1985    1986
Cash Requirements
1. Capital Investment
Third ports project /a                   -       50      231      340      375     144   1,140                  -        -
Third ports project-access roads         -        -        3       21        16      -       40                 -        -
Other port projects                    160      306      366      425      200    210   1,507                 450      450
Dredgers                                 -        -       21       154      159     61      395                 -        -
Total Investment                     160      356      621      940      750    415   3,082        87       450      450
2.  Pre-PPA dredging arrears                    -        -       40      120        -       -      160       4         -        -
3.  Technical assistance & training             -        -       13       13        -       -       26       1         -        -
4. Debt Service
Interest & commitment charges
- IBRD and PEA                         3        4       11       21       35      43      114                45       44
- Other loans                          4        5        9       20       29      34       97                37       44
Repayments
- IBRD and PEA                         1        5        5        5        5       5       25                 6       37
- other loans                          6        3        3        3       15      38       62                45       45
Total Debt Services                   14       17       28       49       84    120       298       8       133      170
5. Increase (decrease) in noncash
working capital                         37       (4)    (30)      (47)       10     73        2               (15)     (16)
6.  Total Cash Requirements                   211      369      672   1,075       844    608   3,568    100          568      604
Cash Available
1. Internally Generated
Net operating revenue                  113       88      149      138      135    310       820               320      324
Non operating revenue                   30       26       21        15        8       7      77                 8        8
Depreciation                            44       48       73       83       95    141       440               148      157
Total Internally Generated           187      162      243      236      238    458   1,337        41       476      489
2. Loans
IBRD loans 939-PH                       15                 -        -        -       -                          -        -
IBRD loan 1048                           -       10        -        -        -       -       10                 -        -
IBRD proposed third loan                 -        7      102      168      161      51      489                 -        -
Other foreign loans - ports              9       19       95      130        15      -      259               100      100
Other foreign loans - dredgers
and cargo handling equipment           -       21      154      209      111       -      495                 -        -
Local loans - Cebu land                  -       41        -        -        -       -       41                 -        -
Total Loans                           24       98      351      507      287      51   1,294       39       100      100
3.  Government grants                           -        -        -      250      320    100       670      20         -        -
4.  Total cash available                      211      260      594      993      845    609   3,301    100          576      589
5.  Cash at end of year                       392      283      205      123      124    125         -               133      118
6. Increase (decrease) in
cash during period                       -    (109)    (78)       (82)        1     1      (267)                8      (15)
/a Includes cargo handling equipment.
Source: PPA and Bank staff.
April 1980






PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
PRESENT GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF PPA
Board of Directors          j
General Manager
AdministrationM agmt & Informa                                               Port Personnel                     internal Control                     Security and
Department                   toSevcsDepartmen                              Training Center                      Department                        I ntellIi gence Staff
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Finance Office                                            Operations Office                                           Planning & Engineering Office
STAFF UNITS - HEAD OFFICE                     Assistant General Manager                                    Asst. General Manager-                                           Assistant General Manager
Controllership               Treasury                      Regulatory and           Port Operations             Port Planning                  Project                Maintenance
Department                Department                       Legal Affairs          and Enforcement               DearmetExecution                                    and Equipment
Department               Department                                            Department                 Department
--  -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -    - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -     -  - - -  - - -  - - --  - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - - -  - -  - - -  -
Port Management
LINE UNITS                                                                         Units (PIVIsl
Port Manager
*In Concurrent Capacity as "Assistant Executive Officer"
October 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                World Bank - 21268






PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES FOR CIVIL WORKS AT PROJECT PORTS
1. CAGAYAN DE ORO
Year          1980                   1981                   1982                   1983                   1984                   1985
Project Details                                     ----                                                                                                         --
Quarter   1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4           _    2    3    4      1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4_      1    2    3       4
BOARD APPROVAL
I  Engineering Services                                     _.................. .... ......... ......... ... ..... ........
1   Port Construction
1. Mobilization
2. Wreck Salvage, Dike Works,
Dredging and Reclamation                                                                          fi 9fi                 Billf Ni   all  Big
3. Quay Construction                                                                                 ili  Jif    11                     sol fff  11f   IUI
4  Buildings and Sheds                                                                                          IIf *fll 9iii   m   [loll
5. Drains and Paving                                                                                                        Sl f  *,       II*   1   (,   *u J
6. Electrical, Water Supply and
Service Utilities                                                                                                                           1IRIDIf1  poll
7. Final Works and Demobilization                                                                                                                                  br e
8. Contract Maintenance and
Warranty Period                                                                                                                                                               .: ._  . _
Ill  External Access Road:
1. Detailed Engineering Design,
including Preparation of Tender
Documents
2. Calling of Tenders, Evaluation and Award
3. Mobilization .                                                                                     m
4. Road Construction                                                                                        IS    SI   S      I  t
5. Final Works and Demobilization                                                                                                11
B. Connract Maintenance and Warranty Period
2. CEBU
BOARD APPROVAL
I Engineering Services                               _,   I. ... ... ...
B   Navigation Channel Dredging
Ill  Port Construction
A. New Multi-purpose Terminal
1. Mobilization
2. Excavation and Filling Work                                   l                                         m      l nn m 7T 
3. Wharf Piling and Quay Construction                                                                            ml IT11  [m          In
4. Buildings and Sheds                                                                                           In   rrr   m    in   m        n
5. Drains and Paving                                                                                                              m           lt    ev    .
6. Electrical, Water Supply and Service
Utilities                                                                            l     lT    ui                                          m    T Ii
7. Final Works and Demobilization
8. Contract Maintenance and Warranty
Period                                                                                                                                                                              -    -
IV   Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Existing Quays and Port Area                       _                            In _n       11__. _1_
LEGEND:
Engineering Services: Detailed Engineering Design, Preparation of Tender Documents and Drawings                        Contract Work - Mobilization Period
Engineering Services: Tender Period, Bid Evaluation, Contract Award                                     r,fuggnujM  Contract Work - Construction Period
.---------- Engineering Services: Construction Supervision and Equipment Inspection until Completion of Project         -  _  _  -   Contract Work - Demobilization Period
_ . _,  _   Guarantee and Maintenance Period
World Bank -21269






PHILIPPINES
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES FOR CIVIL WORKS AT PROJECT PORTS
3. ILOILO
Year          1980                   1981                   1982                   1983                   1984                   1985
Project Details                                     - _         _     _  _    _
Quartel   1    2    3    4    1    2    3         4    1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4       1    2    3       4
BOARD APPROVAL
I  Engineering Services                               _                                                                        . . . .. . . ..
11 Port Construction:
1. Mobilization                                                                                   _
2. Dredging and Reclamation.                                                                      _              nu llt|J  "        0  MX
3. Wharf Pilling and Quay Construction                                                                             9fi"       lJI til    lu Us
4. Buildings and Sheds                                                 l                                                          E.
5. Drains and Paving                                                                                                                                   I Imlm ik 
S. Electrical, Water Supply and Service Utilities                                                                                                   iUL1
7. Final Works and Demobilization                                                                   l                                                                 up
S. Contract Maintenance and Warranty Period                                                                                                                                    R             * W  t  1  a
IIl External Access Road:
1. Mobilization
2. Road Construction                                                                            ii.         *9 i    1 19                    I
3. Final Works and Demobilization
4. Contract Maintenance and Warranty Period                                                                                _
- - ----mm~~~~~~--    m4  ----                                                                              
4. ZAMBOANGA
BOARD APPROVAL
I  Engineering Services                                                          0$~'   pw-          ... ...... 4 .  ... I i, ... I                             I,...  ....
11  Port Construction:
1. Mobilization                                                                               'on
2. Excavation and Filling Work                                                                             l      j  Fogel.
3. Wharf Piling and Quay Construction
4. Seawall and Channel Extension
S. Buildings and Sheds                                                                                                                       llilklll T  m1
6. Drains and Paving                                                                                                                   [m     M       T     VW
7. Electrical, Water Supply and Service Utilities
8. Incorporating Existing Jetty with Extension
9. Additional Ferry Pier and Dolphins
10. Final Works and Demobilization                                                                                                                             Tm
11. Contract Maintenance and Warranty Period
Ill External Access Road:
1. Mobilization
2. Road Construction                                                                                                            ]       I |T
3. Final Works and Demobilization                                                                                                         Tr
4. Contract Maintenance and Warranty Period
t                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~ ELI'Tl I    11__M__    
LEGEND
Engineering Services: Detailed Engineering Design, Preparation of Tender Documents and Drawings                    1   Contract Work -Mobilization Period
Engineering Services: Tender Period. Bid Evaluation, Contract Award                                            omIn  Contract Work - Construction Period
............. Engineering Services: Construction Supervision and Equipment Inspection until Completion of Project       -              Contract Work - Demobilization Period
_ . _  . _   Guarantee and Maintenance Period
World Bank -21270






x  °@   ¢               N                b               C  ,             t SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BWJRD 1479
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    i)                     i  ~     4 ;~ ~rX9 1"_
|    ;                                 ,xf X                                            ; |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
L   U Gmfff<,i  
_   O                        ood                                                                          ,i
ui                                                      7<     ,                    8g4  3   .2 _
k                    '>'v+ X1i   b






IBRD 14860
122°                                                  12°                                                           . FEBRUARY 1980
-12°                                                                                                               ' '' SAMA,R   -    . ,G
S.,b            G        !217AYAN,-   ,                                       -                                    10
SonA toed'g                                            <            -: : z 
Poss,  O~          Bogo   ~           I E YTE                                                          0
Bu ...st                       04      Sio1,000
Son~~~~b
;     lugoroon  fCarlo.                                                                                00004040  .v. A#A 
.   .    -s;         ! ~Toleo o Ce            CE/JI  ro- .       t      .          >                           ,,
o-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~515 ,V                                                                           , 
AIEGR'OS 
4'~~~~~ 0 - O<.                                                                     Tolsyn Tdc
k ~~~~~'01-    j2A6A O° D \ 
7 Kr  Dipoi.g ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     enr 
CE
D1polog            roqoeto      --       .4'.  |                                      md
-0                50                              S)odangon                       dcrrmof   
J  |ooop                        C ola bpio                    Moloy r M                        J
pCo        BBagonga'                                                                                       <    °$        ' 
M.1.1bon SAS8EAA/<J  Kor0nrda
Sib4o                                      p950          otbts                                           DSo'        o
,o@        --                       CJ  zA -
T NBAS SAASTE  GOF                                                                                                                              6'
CENTRAL VISAYAS AND MINDANAO
Ceu   Project ports                                                                     -
41     Principal ports of entry                                                     -
-          Primary roads
Secondory roras
IBRD project roads
Railway
in' sternJianosl airports                            KILOMETER 0   20   40   60   80  100  120 140  160
t      Trunkline airports              r- MILCO o                        2               60       80      io0
--Shipping routes                               Tm00mp ns o.n p.d bro. word .o sozrroi,mnr  a r n.nienc                 r
j o0,,d-r 0t.pnn   h,Oh 1-00t00WO. 700 d-.Wono.  -,oe.n1d
-4                   ~.                              Provincial bounorsies                                                                                                 40,n ,esdoooOro   npO,,,.  d o   - '
122-                                                  124,      o   010000600040,0                           126.






P HI LI PPI NE S
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
PORT OF CAGAYAN DE ORO  EXPANSION
Pr"l-us ,-o t ( Ports, Zt~Loo 93q DH)                                   <|/|                      \(r
Propos-d Th,Rd `orts P-0                                                               /CO    f       c\ A (    /
*  Fuiure expons,on                                                                        / L  i// o Fd  S  j\~  IC2Lf5ECTbN
Proposd f enr.s                                                                  f-
'I     Deptn .oo.ours D mele-s                                                  \NE/NCFTt
0              ITT             200 
EST IN I ERS
Os~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE
TRANSIT~ ~ ~ TRIAI
F'                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~R        E
-              I~~~~~~R  k  O* A
W   \       q  q 2                t/                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~//FF  
IATE D>                                                 ; CXXib
C F    r    Cw,.)N  FR
0   t         0 fAlf lMt j FCARiGO  MA     NG5|     
['                                                            * n- - -  .
CigArs~~~~~~~~~~~t \F 005FGEF    FOAE|12ali    
C   \ \  '\a                             \tA                  f       ,          lRESID.' Al  NPAVE
C-..-~ -d                                                                                         C
\ ~    ~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~ \\  I85 1° t                 OTIE          R         :  _{
\,   9    y <           X      ; [ARG()                         R     ,  ,          _~~~
\\f                                    1             _         f    S    j 
.\              ,     .   I                I   I  I        l    j~~~~~/
EE51Den' Al   t     t   t   UNPAVED   | l '        |        \~~~~~X
Cont zmer ond   . I  I    l     l     l    .   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
got ndoffce \  J  l  x
=-Neenore'  4 -                                     XX    /\\/N\\\guj\~~~~~~4
o 7               i    t  |      <          y---'~~~~~~xfi   tV   # #~~



I



IBPR 14770
P,, I L             bIRAPI  1E90
PHILIPPINES                                                                                                              7       >,< 
THIRD  PORTS  PROJECT                                                                                                        .AX    7         \
PORT OF CEBU EXPANSION
"       fx slotg  port irra-o'   tt'z '5 >5                                                                                    ' 
F po-d pr-j -cr orop ',
ttFotr 0 Oooloporerl                                                                                      r0  7<k   f   >'> o
PropoSed rer med area
Rprp-sef fences eS.'SO 
0--. Depth -orlo,rs i merOrs                                                                            \,'
Por met,r of dredged oranol                                                             c'                      cO                         A
\      7X OD \ oY          -r, 5
GO     2?       300     400                                                      ,- )             '.     "
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                             >9  A  - 
M_ytRS                       _ 
"a   P~               ' 
- co        >,o, g                
<~~~~~~~'V>0- 
9> ~~~~~~or>~~~~~ - -    ,-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~7
C  >~~~  5,0         A>~ EN
At  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,'
>7>    oaa~~d  k          -/                                                 --> ~        7'~3~S~ ~i                -,/ 
4k~~~~~~~rap»O"o"opO
lb.1    "IT~~~~Popoo>,»o0Osr>,






P H I L I P P I N ES 
THIRD  PORTS PROJECT                                        -                                                             /7/
PORT OF ILOILO EXPANSION
37TT- Existing port area                                                          -.          9,P/
Proposed project area
Proposed fence                                                                                              /
ic --- Depth contours in reters       /                                                            , e
0             lG2000C51 
o   l7J 0   2 0 0   ,  P o te n tia l  re lam. a tio n   site   for  lr
METERf                            Post .ctiriti.,                 ,!-r ,e-                          re'  1    / 
ft-tt in er-iecti
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
GEL) S'VE)0I    (I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2 / 7 _    
00~~~~~~_                               ~         ~         0 1//~~/~   
g A   arr.eplsrorrscermun~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i7                                  /q/XjX>  / |    I'   '   
//   c   4   =,  o ¢.9 r S Z  v/    /      7/  7-_/,, /
b~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~/)/                                        ///"       
B hrg~~~~~~~~~~~~./on  0 9 9
g.rthang 
/      / 0' *' /          /( 
0''  7   /  7~~~~~~~~00
/1                                             //        /            \   9h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~I"01
Tha  h.  ""IW b I 0. Wdd B.. ..'r -N-', M.~ ~ ~ ~~~~/97/  7// I              IM
Oti - m An n  srOsao  rrewres.rtr  arssr nrecr'r,rt            ''  /                           \ \   \<                     






I BRD 14773R
AFu L 1980
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
PORT OF ZAMBOANGA EXPANSION
K     Enisting port area
I                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed project area
ard~~~~~~~~~~~~n~~~~~~ngl                                                   I                                                     iii- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed  fence
J1t   ~ ~ ~ ~~~          -     Depth Contours in m,eters
____                                                                                           -     <- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dredged areas
co ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ida. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                    100                  200
P-U                                                        PULI RE                                                                                                         METERS
4e~~~      '4'-~~~~~                                                  aear  R~~~~~~~CLA,MCO~~~E AREA TO
Fi,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-. >~~~~~'  'CA~~~~~~                                    -,    Fire ~~~~~~COA, enC                                     
'-j ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ,                                         p       -
~~~  *0                                                                        kp~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~--0,"
i'UANO 
L _________________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eeLe,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KAWA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~<
CA COSIC                   ~0.,,,,                                               ~                                                                                                            X0r5D4t500r5§A



