DOCUMENTS    I LOAN NUM-BER 1855 PH
Loan Agreement
(Third Ports Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                  /3           ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1855 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  3, 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower will carry out parts of the Project through
its Ministry of Public Works, and the remainder of the Project
will be carried out by the Philippine Ports Authority (hereinafter
called the Authority) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Authority the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and the Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.Ol. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Philippine Ports Authority of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes-all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Philippine Ports
Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "Presidential Decree" means the Borrower's Presidential
Decree No. 857 dated December 23, 1975, as such way be amended
to the date of this Agreement;
(d) "Ministry" means the Ministry of Public Works of the
Borrower;
(e) "Authority" means the Philippine Ports Authority duly
organized and existing under the Presidential Decree;
(f) "Investment Plan" means all of the Authority's capital
expenditures planned for the years 1980 through 1986, as formu-
lated in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement;
(g)  "Project Ports" means the ports of Cagayan de Oro,
Cebu, Iloilo and Zamboanga, as such ports are defined pursuant to
the Presidential Decree; and
(h) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance wi-th the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the± Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2,05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-fourth per cent (8.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A
through D of the Project through the Ministry with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,


﻿promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall,
cause the Authority to perform in accordance with the provisions
of .the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able 'to the Authority under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Authority under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out Parts
A through D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, Qr
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts A through D of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably r-quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through D
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Parts A through
D of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in Parts A through D of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A through D of the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts A through D of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts A through D of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause: (a) by October 1,
1980 to be established, and thereafter maintained, a Project
Executive Committee satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for
implementation of Parts A through D of the Project; (b) by Octo-
ber 1, 1980 to be appointed a full-time Project Director, whose
qualifications, experience and responsibilities are satisfactory
to the Bank; and (c) to be established and maintained thereafter,
a Project Management Office with organization, staff and resources
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1981 com-
plete the resettlement in accordance with arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank, of residents of the Port of Cagayan de Oro
who are required to relocate for the purpose of carrying out the
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the external
access roads to the Ports of Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo and Zamboanga,
as specified under the Project, to be constructed in accordance
with construction schedules satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
arrange for the timely acquisition of construction rights-of-way
therefor.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) by December 31, 1981 the completion of the removal of
wrecks in the access channel to be constructed under Part B.1 of
the Project; and
(b) by June 30, 1981, the completion of the relocation
of a fishing vessel anchorage at the Port of Zamboanga.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to
determine in consultation with the Bank, the number of arrastre
(cargo handling) firms allowed to operate in each of the Project
Ports.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.


﻿- 7-
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at
no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any
such lien express provision will made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As :sed in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 8 --
(a) The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agree-
ment or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Authority will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Presidential Decree shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Authority or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Authority have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Authority.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Authority, and is legally binding upon the
Authority in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Authority and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Authority in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date /L9, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             0268 CB-CONF


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILLIPINES
By/ L;"           Z
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByI    Z.    la-
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  38,000,000        48%
(2) Equipment and materials       1,500,000        100% of for-
for civil works                               eign expendi-
tures for
directly im-
ported items
(3) Consultants' services        10,340,000        100%
and training
(4) Unallocated                  17,160,000
TOTAL              67,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,


﻿- 12 -
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$850,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Investment Plan and consists
of the following:
Part A:   Port of Cagayan de Oro
1.   Extension of quay (about 415 meters) providing deep-water
multipurpose berths.
2.   Construction of one open transit shed and one container
freight station cum transit shed.
3.   Construction of ancillary works including surface roads,
open areas, utilities, weighbridges, gates and fences.
4.   Construction of an external access road.
Part B:   Port of Cebu
1.   Dredging and disposal of spoil for the provision of deep-
water access navigation channel to a depth of 9.5 meters below
wean low low-water.
2.   Construction of a quay (550 meters long and 70 meters
wide) providing deep-water multipurpose berths.
3.   Construction of one container freight station cum transit
shed.
4.   Construction of an administration building, equipment and
passenger sheds, and ancillary works including surface roads, open
areas, utilities, weigh-bridges, gates and fences.
5.   Rehabilitation and upgrading of marginal quay aprons and
circulation roads, including provision of utilities, gates and
fencing.
Part C:   Port of Iloilo
1.   Dredging and disposal of spoil, reclamation and fill, and
construction of dike works for the provision of an island wharf
terminal.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Construction cf a quay (400 meters long and 225 meters
wide) providing deep-water multipurpose berths.
3.   Construction of one container freight station cum transit
shed.
4.   Construction of an administration building, fire station and
ancillary works including surface roads, open areas, utilities,
weigh-bridges, gates and fences.
5.   Construction of external access roads.
Part D:   Port of Zamboanga
1..  Dredging and disposal of spoil, reclamation and fill, and
construction of dike works for the quay extension hereunder.
2.   Extension of quay (about 220 meters) providing deep-water
multipurpose berths.
3.   Construction of one container freight station cum transit
shed.
4.   Construction of buildings for administration, relevant
agencies and labor, fire station, and ancillary works including
surface roads, open areas, utilities, weighbridges, gates, fences
and sheds.
5.   Rehabilitation of the existing tee-head jetty.
6.   Construction of a pier (about 50 meters) with mooring dol-
phins, a passenger waiting shed and an embarkation area.
7.   Construction of an external access road.
Part E:   Project Facilities
1.   Operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under
Parts A through D of the Project.
2.   Provision of cargo handling equipment.
Part F:   Technical Assistance
1*   Strengthening of the Authority's and Project Management
Office's capabilities in areas such as:


﻿- 15 -
(a) civil engineering works administration; and
(b) management information system.
2.   Establishment of a hydrographic survey unit in the Authority.
3.   Studies:
(a) Siltation and hydrographic studies at the Ports of
Cebu and Iloilo.
(b) Study of effect of increased container freight and
passenger services.
(c) Study of seabed erosion at the Port of Cagayan de Oro.
(d) Studies for future ports projects.
(e) Other port related studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1985
through   September 15, 1999               2, 235,000
On March 15, 2000                               2,185,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                6.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works and goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works and goods to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any works or goods remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are inv!ted, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, with the assistance of   the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 20 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of sich con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, pro.1ptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L3      day of  A-A L, 1910.
FOR SECRETARY


