LOAN NUMBER 1855 PH
Project Agreement
(Third Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PHILIPPINE PORTS AUTHORITY
Dated                  /3           ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1855 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      L  .                   , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and PHILIPPINE PORTS AUTHORITY (hereinafter
called the Authority).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Authority agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidi,ry loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Authority, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
the Authority on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts E and F of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out Parts E and F of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, engineering and port management prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Authority in carrying
out Parts E and F of the Project, the Authority shall employ
consultants and advisers whose qualifications, experience and
-terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
Parts E and F of the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds
of' the Loan made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Authority to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Authority
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Authprity shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Parts E and F of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Authority: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor 'the progress of Parts E and F of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Parts E and F
of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in Parts E and F of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Parts E and F of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure


﻿-3-
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts E and F of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Authority and the Bank, the Authority shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts E and F of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Authority and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) The Authority shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Authority and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.05. The Authority shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authority shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Parts E and F of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loans.
(b) The Authority shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts E and F of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Authority of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.01. The Authority shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory


﻿-4-
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall cause the facilities,
equipment, machinery or other property necessary or useful in the
operation of all the ports vested in it from time to time to be
operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with
sound engineering and management practices.
Section 3.03. The Authority shall take all steps necessary to
ensure that the operation of all the ports vested in it from time
to time shall at all times be conducted, their affairs managed,
their future investments planned and their sound financial situa-
tion maintained in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and engineering practices and under the direction of competent and
experienced management.
Section 3.04. The Authority shall consult with the Bank
prior to implementing any major change in its organizational
structure.
Section 3.05. The Authority shall by December 31, 1982,
complete siltation observations and the review of maintenance
dredging requirements at the Port of Cebu.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Authority shall maintain records including
those with respect to Parts A through D of the Project, ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have such accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-ti-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority


﻿- 5-
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Authority shall:
(a) not make any substantial change in the Investment
Plan except after consultation with the Bank. For the purposes of
this Section "substantial change" shall mean a change involving an
increase of more than 10% of the estimated cost of the Investment
Plan in any financial year; and
(b) enter into any craft or equipment purchase agreement
with a value of fifty million Pesos or more, only after prior
consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Authority shall take all such measures, including but not
limited to adjustments of tariffs by January 1, 1981 in consulta-
tion with the Bank, as shall be sufficient to earn an annual
rate of return of not less than five per cent (5%) in each of
fiscal years 1981, 1982 and 1983, and seven per cent (7%) in
fiscal year 1984 and thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
in respect of each fiscal year by relating the net
operating revenue for that year to the average of
the value of the net fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" shall mean the
difference between (A) gross operating revenue
and (B) operating and administrative expenses,
including adequate maintenance and depreciation and
taxes including income taxes, if any, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt (if any) and
dividends on equity capital; and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation, such
assets to be revalued at least once every five
years, in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation and depreciation
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may other-
wise agree, the Authority shall not at any time incur any debt,
unless its net cash generation from operations for the fiscal
year immediately preceding such incurrence or a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall not be less than 1.75 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this
Section:
(i) the term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of
the Authority, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of the contract or other
instrument providing for such debt or modifying its
terms of payment;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from operations"
means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to
take account of the Authority's dues and rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less operational expenses including admi-
nistrative expenses, taxes (if any), and adequate
maintenance, but before deduction for depreciation
and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing official rate-of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Authority thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify the Authority there-
of.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and e-fect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 8-
For the Authority:
Philippine Ports Authority
5th Floor, BF Condominium
Aduana
Intramuros, Manila
Cable address:                      Telex:
PHPORTS                            Eastern 63320
Manila
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Authority may be taken or executed
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as the
Authority shall designate in writing, and the Authority shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
ths Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
a [               Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PHILIPPINE PORTS AUTHORITY
By /5               Ae
I / Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  ki tk   day of. 1980.
FOR SECRETARY


