Report No. PID5648
Project Name          Ghana-Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) (#)
Region                            Africa
Sector                            AT Forestry, Environment, Land Management
Project ID                        GHPE946
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Lands and Forestry,
Accra-Ghana.
Date of PID                       09/15/97
Appraisal Date                    11/15/97
Board Date                        03/17/98
Country and Sector Background
1.      The Republic of Ghana, with an area of 238,500 km2, lies
between 5 and 11 N latitude and between 1 and 3 E longitude. It
is bounded by Cote d'Ivoire on the West, Burkina Faso on the North,
Togo on the East and the Atlantic Ocean on the South. Its
population is estimated at 17 million and growing at the rate of 3t
per annum. Agriculture is the main economic activity, for a long
time dominated by cocoa and food crops. In recent years other crops
have been receiving increasing attention and contributing to the
diversification of the sector. The timber industry, concentrated in
the high rainfall south western quadrant of the country, is also an
important contributor to the economy, and a major export item.
2.      Ecologically, Ghana has two main zones: the high forest and
the savanna. The high forest zone covers roughly one third (8.2
million ha) of the land area, and supports two thirds of the
population. It includes wet and moist evergreen and semi-deciduous
forests. It has good soils and a bi-modal annual rainfall ranging
between 1,300 mm and 2,100 mm. Most of the country's economic
activities (cocoa, oil palm, rubber, timber and mineral production)
are concentrated in this zone. The savanna zone covers two thirds
(16 million ha) of the national territory. About 40t of it is in
the three northern Regions of Upper East, Upper West and Northern
and the rest is mainly in the Brong Ahafo and the Volta Regions.
This zone has four types of vegetation: the derived savanna, the
southern Guinea, the northern Guinea and the Sudan savanna. This
zone has a mono-modal annual rainfall ranging between 800 and 1200
mm occurring between the months of June and December. The soils are
relatively poor and the main economic activities are in shifting
annual crops (foodcrops, groundnut, cotton) and in livestock production.
3.      All land is either community owned, "stool" or "skin" lands,
vested in the local chiefs, or individual freeholdings, or in rare
very cases, State owned. Their use is divided between (a) reserved
and unreserved high forest - 1.7 million ha, producing mainly
timber; (b) savanna -16.0 million ha, some of which are woodlands
and include reserves, while the rest is grazing; and (c)
agricultural land, including bush fallow - 6.0 million ha. The



legal status of the land can be grouped as (a) Forest reserves, -
2.6 million ha of which 1.6 million are in the high forest and the
remainder in the savanna woodlands; (b) wildlife reserves - 1.2
million ha; and (c) unreserved lands - 20.1 million ha. Under the
present National Forestry Sector Master Plan, about half of the
existing reserved area within the high forest zone will be retained
under production forestry. Of the remainder, about 50t of which is
in relatively pristine condition is slated for protection and the
remainder that is in degraded condition, is targeted for
restoration, convalescence, or plantation development.
Project Objectives
4.      The project's primary objective is to establish the
institutional and operational framework, within the public and
private sectors, for sustainable, participatory management of
Ghana's soil, water, wildlife and forest resources; conservation of
biodiversity; and, rehabilitation of degraded areas. It will assist
communities to take lead responsibility in management activities
and strive to ensure that land and forest resources are sustained
at their optimum level of production and that opportunities for
income generation are widened, particularly for the growing numbers
of disadvantaged rural poor who's actions constitute a potentially
serious factor in the degradation of these resources.
Rationale
5.      The expected programs for managing the land, water,
vegetation and animal resources, including rehabilitation of
degraded areas, would place priority on private sector
responsibility, particularly the rural communities taking ownership
of the operations, including poverty alleviating activities. While
some communities are already aware of the declining productivity of
the land, the shrinking natural resource base, and the increasing
poverty among substantial numbers of the growing population, the
magnitude and seriousness of these problems is not generally
appreciated. There is also inadequate general recognition that
simple practical measures to halt or reverse degradation trends and
restore at least in part, the natural balance on the land, are
available and could be implemented locally with modest inputs.
These programs would be formulated on a broad basis within the
framework of sound land use planning, and in accordance with the
capability of the land. The project would assist communities,
acting through local trade groups and producer associations,
families, schools, individuals and other stakeholder entities, to
restore degraded areas, and manage the resources for efficient and
sustainable production. This would build on experience gained
during the last decade with community approaches to improving local
environmental and living conditions.
Project Components
6.      In support of these objectives the project will adopt a broad
sectoral lending approach and would have the following components:
- 2 -



(a) High Forest Management
This component will support the implementation of
policy and institutional reforms designed to streamline
public forest sector agencies and strengthen their
technical capacity. Institutional restructuring will
emphasize the role of public agencies in providing
technical assistance to communities in the development
of collaborative forest management plans with the
private sector, in monitoring and surveillance of
management plan implementation, and in extension of
good forest management practices into non-reserve areas.
The core objective of this component is to facilitate
the transition from central government management to
community-based collaborative management of the
approximately 200 national forest reserves within the
high forest zone. This will involve, inter alia,
restructuring of the Forestry Department into a smaller
more autonomous forestry service with the possible
incorporation of more independent forest operation/log
movement, coupled with concessionaires performance
bonding, and a new royalty structure to properly
reflect the real value of the timber resource and
protect scarce species. To this end, the project would
finance training, technical assistance and operational
costs associated with the institutional reform program.
It will also support the collaborative forest
management initiative through assistance with
participatory planning and institutional development,
preparation and implementation of forest reserve and
forestry district level management plans, promotion of
low impact logging methods and direct involvement of
local communities in forest reserve management. It will
finance training and technical assistance for
implementation of participatory planning and
collaborative management of forest reserves,
operational support for implementing management plans,
and technical support for monitoring and surveillance
of forest management initiatives.
Financed by the GEF, the project would identify and
document priority areas of global importance for
biodiversity conservation to be excluded from future
logging, develop community based management plans for
protection of these areas, finance alternative
livelihood schemes for affected communities, and
provide for ongoing monitoring and evaluation of
biological and social indicators of program performance.
The project will promote the development of privately
owned plantations to supply an increasing proportion of
wood to the processing industry when, as planned,
harvesting of natural forest declines. Plantation
- 3 -



development would take place on private lands off-
reserve, and on degraded reserve lands. The project
would establish a privately managed Plantation
Development Fund/Company to be managed within an
appropriate administrative framework; facilitate
reserve land allocation to approved investors and
private plantation management companies; establish a
seed bank and support development of a privately
operated, decentralized, seed distribution system; and
support plantation related research, extension and
stakeholder training.
(b) Savanna Resources Management
This component would concentrate on four main group of
activities in the Upper East, Upper West and Northern Regions.
Woodland reserve management proposals involving
participation of communities for the would be developed
on a pilot basis and tested for effectiveness and
sustainability. The new approach would broaden the
current restrictive encroachment protection objective
to give the communities a key role in on-reserve
management including shared operational responsibility
and a stake in revenues derived from improved forest
and woodland product harvesting and marketing.
Participatory programs would be formulated to
rehabilitate non-reserve areas degraded by poor land
use practices; and to sustainably manage all the
savanna zone natural resources, enabling more efficient
productive use of these resources and improved
marketing. The programs would be based on integrated
land use plans starting on mini-watersheds from
headwaters areas building on the experiences of the
land and water management component of GERMP, taking
into account not only the physical resources, but also
the market situation, and the culture, needs and
capabilities of the communities which rely on the land
resources for their livelihood. Involvement of district
environmental management committees in development of
local land management plans would ensure compatibility
with Local Environmental Action Plans (LEAPs) .
Support would be provided for capacity building within
participating communities, the statutory Development
Planning Sub-Committee and Environmental Management
Committees of the District Assemblies, and also NGOs
concerned with the programs. Training would focus on
front line staff and private service providers such as
NGOs, conducted through local institutions and training
agencies equipped with the necessary facilities and
skills for integrated management of land, water and
vegetation cover for sustainable economic activities. A
savanna implementation coordinating unit would be
-4 -



established to take the lead role in the planning and
implementation of the programs.
This component would contribute to development of a
National Action Program against Desertification as
provided for in the International Desertification
Convention to which GoG is a signatory. This program
would be planned in cooperation with the national
Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and relevant
arrangements would be made to start implementation.
(c) Wildlife Resource Management
The wildlife management component will support
institutional strengthening through restructuring and
realignment of the Wildlife Department (WD) to enhance
the economic and social sustainability of wildlife
management programs and foster close collaboration
between the WD and rural communities, the private
sector, non-governmental organizations and other
partners in management of protected areas, and wildlife
in general. This component would support implementation
of management plans and infrastructure improvements for
selected protected areas, technical assistance and
operational support for establishment of community
managed reserves, and finance both infrastructure
improvements and operational support to upgrade and
modernize the management of the zoological gardens in
Accra and Kumasi under a general initiative to improve
environmental education and outreach efforts by the
Department to be undertaken in partnership with
national NGOs.
The project would also seek to promote increased
private sector/community involvement in wildlife
related economic activities such as eco-tourism and
game ranching; and improve understanding and support
for wildlife conservation and management through public
education .
(d) Environment Management Coordination
The NRMP will provide resources to assist capacity
building of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
at national and regional levels and provide operational
support to assist it to implement its new 5-year
strategic plan for environment management coordination,
including its human resource development and to develop
sector specific guidelines in support of the activities
of the NRMP. The project would also support the EPA
program to provide training and technical support to
district assembly level environmental management
committees in the preparation of local environmental
action plans and to bolster their capacity for local-
level land use planning.
-5-



Support will also be given to further develop the
Environmental Information System (EIS) established
under the ongoing Environmental Resource Management
Project, and to encourage its wider use as a planning
tool in Ghana; and to support work on land
administration issues influencing sustainable use of
natural resources.
Project Support Activities
7.      Policy, Planning and Institutional Reforms. The project would
assist the government to design and implement further sectoral
policy and institutional reforms to enhance revenue capture and
improve sustainability of the forest industry through streamlining
the mandates and expenditures of forest sector agencies and
strengthening their implementation capacity. Various agencies
within the forestry sector are expected to devolve a considerable
share of their responsibilities to the private sector. The project
would assist private sector producer associations, NGO's and
community-based organizations to extend their participation in the
commercial forestry sector and complement the restructuring of the
Forestry Department into a more efficient service-providing agency
which is currently underway with ODA financed technical support.
8.      Capacity Development. In view of the importance of
participatory approaches for the identification, planning and
implementation of the programs, priority would be given to
strengthening or developing the capacities of interested
communities to play a leading role in land and natural resource
management. Such capacity building would take advantage of existing
capabilities and potential of local institutions such as training
and research institutes and NGOs, as well as individuals, with the
requisite skills for undertaking the specific activities. Support
would also be provided to strengthening the capacity of relevant
NGOs in the rural areas to complement regional and district
extension services and subject matter specialists, in training the
communities.
9.      Resource Information Systems. The present remote sensing
equipment at the Planning Branch of the MLF at Kumasi would be
upgraded into a Forestry / Wildlife / Biodiversity sectoral
resource information node to be operated under the NRMP and
supported by the Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSAU) at the
University of Ghana in Legon. A regional sub-node would be
developed at Tamale, with appropriate capacity to facilitate the
planning and monitoring activities of the savanna component.
10.     Monitoring Land Use Changes. The countrywide land use / land
cover information generated by the RSAU, based on satellite images
dating back to 1990/91. It will be updated with satellite data from
1999/2000 images in compatible format to generate new data on land
use and land cover changes during the current decade. Information
on changes in land cover and utilization during the 1990's, when
combined with other socio-economic information, would provide a
powerful tool to study and assess the impact of recent policies and
- 6 -



development activities on natural resources and the environment.
Project Financing
11.      Total project costs are tentatively estimated at US$ 52
million over five years, of which IDA would finance about $18
million, and other bilateral and multilateral cofinanciers who have
already expressed interest would finance an equivalent amount . A
proposal is currently under consideration by the Global Environment
Facility to finance approximately US$ 9 million in incremental
costs for biodiversity conservation within the high forest zone.
The remaining $7 million would come from GOG, the District
Assemblies and participating communities.
Implementation Arrangements
12.     . The Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF) will be the lead
implementing agency operating through its Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) chaired by the Technical Director. The Ministry of
Food and Agriculture (MOFA) and the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) would also be involved in implementation of aspects of the
project. The different components would be managed by specific
decentralized management units within the collaborating agencies.
The details of operating procedures for these units are currently
under discussion. The implementation framework would be in line
with the policies of GoG to decentralize the public service, and to
give the District Assemblies operational responsibilities for
development and provision of services within their districts.
Project Sustainability
13.     An important provision for long term sustainability of the
NRMP is Government's commitment to policy and institutional reforms
which places a greater responsibility on the private stakeholders,
improvements in staff quality and performance in key support
agencies, and appropriate funding, particularly at the regional and
district levels. The participatory approach which will give major
management roles and bring greater direct benefits to the
respective communities and other private sector or stakeholders,
will provide the essential element of ownership to ensure enduring
maintenance. Within the high forest estate, Government's commitment
to stabilizing sustainable harvest potential, increasing the share
of benefits realized by the communities and improving both the
knowledge base and management capacity for effective stewardship of
the natural resources, will ultimately be a major factor in
sustaining these resources and their value for the welfare of the
rural population.
Lessons learned from Past Operations
14.     Experience from previous Bank lending operations in the
forestry sector indicates the importance of addressing key policy
and institutional reforms in parallel with strengthening technical
management capacity including more direct involvement of
landholding communities and other stakeholders. This project will
- 7 -



support the implementation of policy and legislative reforms
concerning improved forest royalty collection, more equitable and
transparent distribution of revenues to stakeholders, introduction
of improved sectoral guidelines for environmental protection and
enhanced fiscal and technical monitoring and surveillance. The
project will underwrite implementation of a major policy shift
toward collaborative management of forest and other natural
resources with rural communities and other stakeholders having much
more direct participation in resource management decisions and
greater realization of economic returns from resource management.
Special Program Emphasis
15.     The proposed program will give special emphasis to
sustainable management of the natural resources and the environment
and poverty reduction through: (i) policy reforms that will improve
the logging, milling, and marketing of forest products and provide
a greater share of the benefits to rural landholding communities;
(ii) targeted interventions to improve the management of land and
water resources as a means of increasing agricultural productivity
for farmers, to reduce poverty particularly among women in the
disadvantaged rural areas and improve food security and employment
opportunities; (iii) special emphasis on community participation in
the selection, planning, implementation and ownership of the programs.
Environmental Category: A
16.     A sectoral Environmental Assessment is needed to determine
how proposed changes in the forest industry and improved management
of the natural resources may affect the environment and to develop
and promulgate best practice guidelines to minimize any negative impact.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 13, 1998.
- 8 -



