Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3091 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Natural Resource Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 2, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3091 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 30, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
sustainable use of its national land, forest and wildlife resources (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of ten years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain, or has obtained, from various Donors (as 
hereinafter defined) loans and grants to assist in financing the Program; 
(E)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility 
Page  2
Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants to the GEF, 
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of part of the Project, and by 
the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement) of even date herewith, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in 
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to SDR 6,500,000; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs 13 through 15: 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“EPA” means the Borrower’s Environmental Protection Agency established 
pursuant to the Environmental Protection Agency Act, (Act Number 490 of 1994) of the 
laws of the Borrower; 
(b)
“FD” means the Borrower’s Forestry Department within its Ministry of 
Lands and Forestry; 
(c)
“GFS” means the Ghana Forest Service to be established pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“MEST” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, Science and 
Technology; 
(e)
“MLGRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and Rural 
Development; 
(f)
“MLF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Lands and Forestry; 
(g)
“MME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy; 
(h)
“MOFA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Food and Agriculture; 
Page  3
(i)
“PCC” means Project Coordination Committee to be established by the 
Borrower and referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit established by the Borrower and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“PIP” means the Project implementation plan adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements 
regarding the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, in consultation with and with the consent of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project implementation plan; 
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 15, 1996 and January 17, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“WD” means the Wildlife Department within MLF; 
(o)
“National Biodiversity Strategy” means the strategy to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, which defines actions to be 
taken for the purpose of protecting and conserving the biodiversity of its natural 
resources;
(p)
“Forest Protection Strategy” means the strategy adopted by the Borrower 
in 1995 which identifies priority areas for conservation of genetic resources within 
the forest reserves and outlines a strategic approach for maintaining examples of 
natural assemblages within the high forest zone; 
(q)
“Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas” means gazetted forest reserves 
or parts thereof  that have been identified for protection and exclusion of logging to 
conserve rare, threatened or endangered flora and fauna, or exceptional examples of 
rare or unique ecosystems; 
(r)
“Savanna Resource Management Center” means the center referred to in Part 
B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(s)
“Donors” means, collectively, the African Development Bank, the Kingdom 
of Denmark, the European Union, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain, the World Food Program, Germany and any other national or international 
agency contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and “Donor” means 
each and every donor individually.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million, nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or any other bank acceptable 
to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, 
in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
Page  4
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2008 and ending June 1, 2038.  Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, June 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  5
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, forestry, environmental and technical practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan made 
to the Borrower 
for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or (B) any 
such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (ii) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  7
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a Project implementation plan, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management system for the 
Project acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has approved appropriate legislation which provides for the 
establishment of rates for timber royalties, satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has presented to its Parliament legislation, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the establishment of the Ghana Forest Service;  
(e)
the Borrower has adopted the National Biodiversity Strategy in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(f)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
ACCRA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Page  8
By /s/ Koby Koomson 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James W. Adams 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods (including
  1,350,000
100% of foreign
equipment and
expenditures and
vehicles)
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
  1,700,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental operating
75%
costs:
(a) for GFS
  1,700,000
(b) for others
    800,000
(5)
Refunding of Project
    500,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    350,000
TOTAL
  6,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred on 
Page  9
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and associated 
subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual and temporary staff, 
salaries for temporary staff transferred to the Savanna Resource Management Center 
from FD, office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for 
vehicles and equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works and goods under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (ii) consultants’ services (firms) under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (iii) consultants’ services (individuals) 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (iv) training and operating 
costs under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) promote sustainable use of the 
Borrower’s national land, forest and wildlife resources; and (b) better conserve the 
rich biodiversity of its forests.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
High Forest Resource Management 
1.
Designing and implementing sectoral policy and institutional reforms to improve 
forest management systems and enhance revenue collection from the forest sector 
through the provision of technical advisory services, civil works and equipment. 
2.
Improvement of the operational capacity of private sector producer associations, 
nongovernmental organizations and community-based organizations to enable them to 
carry out timber production, harvesting and processing operations in an efficient and 
environmentally sustainable manner through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training. 
3.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s forestry institutions in the 
monitoring of timber utilization contracts, timber exports and the collection of 
revenues through the installation of a log tracking system and the provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
4.
Carrying out a log export ban study.
5.
Preparation of: (a) a national forestry plan, and (b) forestry reserve 
management plans, all through the provision of technical advisory services. 
6.
Initiating pilot projects to explore collaborative approaches to forest 
management through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
7.
Establishment of a central bushfire detection system and initiation of green 
fire-break programs in forest reserves. 
8.
Developing new non-timber forest production systems through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
9.
Establishing an institutional framework for the creation and maintenance of 
forest resources off-reserves through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
10.
Developing a financing mechanism for private sector plantation development, 
Page  10
including the preparation of a legal framework and operating policies and procedures, 
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
11.
Developing a decentralized private sector tree seed distribution system, 
including the establishment of a seed bank, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
Part B: 
Savanna Resource Management 
1.
Establishment of a Savanna Resource Management Center in Tamale through the 
provision of advisory services, civil works and equipment. 
2.
Carrying out an assessment of natural resources of the savanna zone. 
3.
Carrying out surveys of watershed off-reserve areas and designing measures to 
rehabilitate watershed resources.
4.
Initiation of: pilot initiatives to improve woodland reserve management and 
revenue generation with increased local community involvement; collaborative programs 
to rehabilitate off-reserve degraded areas, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and the acquisition of equipment. 
5.
(a)
Carrying out a survey of woodfuel markets, including organizing a 
national woodfuel workshop.
(b)
Improving the marketing capabilities of fuelwood and charcoal producers 
through training and the acquisition of equipment. 
6.
Preparation of a national action program to combat desertification. 
7.
Improving the technical and operational capacities of the private sector in 
establishing community nurseries through the development of infrastructure, 
construction of watering systems, provision of potting facilities and acquisition of 
equipment. 
8.
Carrying out public awareness programs on the management of bush fires through 
training and holding of workshops for the public.
Part C:
Wildlife Resource Management 
1.
Strengthening the capacities of WD to enhance the economic and social 
sustainability of wildlife management programs and to foster closer collaboration 
between the WD and rural communities, the private sector and nongovernmental 
organizations through the provision of technical advisory services and training, the 
carrying out of civil works and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Carrying out a program to assist the WD to revise all protected area management 
plans and to prioritize its infrastructure development plans through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Development of extension capacity within WD to support district and 
community-level wildlife conservation and management activities through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training. 
4.
Promotion of private sector capacity development and involvement in 
wildlife-related economic activities through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training. 
5.
Carrying out public awareness programs to improve understanding and support for 
wildlife conservation and management by the public.
6.
Training of WD staff in wildlife conservation measures.
Part D:
Environmental Management Coordination 
1.
Implementation of EPA’s five-year strategic plan for environmental management 
coordination through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Page  11
2.
Implementing of EPA’s human resource development plan through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Strengthening the capacity of district-level environmental management committees 
to prepare environmental action plans for their respective districts and to 
participate in district-level land use planning through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training. 
4.
Establishment of regional and district environmental information systems and a 
geo-spatial information framework through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and the acquisition of equipment.
Part E: 
Biodiversity Conservation 
1.
Establishment of a biodiversity advisory group in MLF through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
2.
Implementation of key elements of the National Forest Protection Strategy and 
the National Biodiversity Strategy, including (a) strengthening the biological 
conservation and management capacity of the FD; (b) initiating pilot activities to 
generate revenues from activities other than logging; and (c) strengthening the 
capacity of FD in community-based participatory management practices and implementing 
improved technical management practices to enhance the environmental sustainability of 
production and forest management, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training, the carrying out of civil works and the acquisition of equipment. 
3.
Carrying out baseline surveys to identify and demarcate Globally Significant 
Biodiversity Areas. 
4.
Carrying out a program to identify and demarcate provenance reserves within the 
production forest reserves.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  12
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, and goods which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
(i)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(ii)
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $970,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation Works required for Part C.1 of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $ 100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  13
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
(i)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1998, establish 
and 
thereafter maintain a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) 
under the 
chairmanship of the Technical Director of MLF. The 
PCC shall have the 
responsibility to review, on a quarterly 
basis, proposed work programs and 
budgets, monitor 
implementation performance and foster inter-agency and 
inter-ministerial cooperation in the management of the Borrower’s natural 
resources. Members of the PCC shall include representatives, at the 
director 
level, from the following ministries: MLF, MOFA, MEST, MLGRD 
and MME, and 
their implementing agencies and representatives of 
private sector 
organizations, nongovernmental 
organizations and academic institutions and 
Donors.
(ii)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the PCC, beginning on December 
31, 1998, to 
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and 
comments, a progress 
report every quarter on Project 
implementation. Following such report, the 
Borrower shall 
continue the implementation of the Project, taking into account 
the 
views of the Association given pursuant to such progress reports.
(b)
The Borrower shall continue to maintain the Project Coordinating Unit 
(PCU) within MLF, which shall have overall responsibility for Project management and 
coordination, including the preparation of the annual work plans, budgeting and 
finance, maintenance of a proper financial management and accounting system for the 
Project, preparation of bidding documents and monitoring of the overall procurement 
process, management of technical assistance activities and the preparation of a 
Project completion report.  The PCU shall continue to be headed by the Technical 
Director of MLF.
Page  14
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth 
in the PIP and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend or waive 
any provision thereof if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out all actions required under the environmental 
management plan to mitigate and compensate for the impacts that have been identified 
through the environmental impact assessment. 
5.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than March 
31, 1999, establish a Savanna Resource Management Center (SRMC) with staff seconded 
from MLF, MOFA, EPA and MME, as appropriate, which shall work closely with district 
assemblies. The SRMC shall be responsible for carrying out the functions specified in 
the Project implementation plan.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  15
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Page  16
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
