                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27231

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (TF-25165 IDA-30910 PPFI-Q0140 TF-20412)

                                       ON A

                               LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                      FOR A

                NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT, PHASE I




                                  January 16, 2003




AFTS4
Country Department 10
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 2001)

                             Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedi
                   0.000138 Ghanaian Cedi = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = 7225 Ghanaian Cedis

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    African Development Bank
CFS     Collaborative Forest Committees
CIF     Community Investment Fund
CNRM    Collaborative Natural Resource Management
CONARs  Council for Natural Resources
DA      District Assembly
DANIDA  Dutch International Development Agency
DFID    Department for International Developmen
EIS     Environmental Information Systems
EPA     Environmental Protection Agency
EU      European Union
FC      Forestry Commission
FORIG   Forestry Research Institute of Ghana
FORUM   Forest Protection and Resource Use Management Project
FRMP    Forest Resource Management Project
FSDP    Forest Sector Development Project
FS      Forest Services
GBSA    Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GFS     Ghana Forest Service
HFRMC   High Forest Resource Management Component
HIPC    Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HRDP    Human Resources Development Program
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
MLF     Ministry of Lands and Forestry
MOFA    Ministry of Food and Agriculture
NAFGIM  National Framework for Geospatial Information Management
NEDA    Netherlands Development Agency
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
NRMECG  Natural Resource Management and Environmental Consultative Group
NRMP    Natural Resource Management Project
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCC     Programme Coordination Committee
PLIRC   Policy, Legislation and Institutional Reforms Component

PPMED  Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTD    Participatory Technology Development
RNG    Royal Netherlands Government
SDF    Southern Dry Forests
SRMC   Savannah Resource Management Center
TEU    Traditional Energy Unit
TIDB   Timber Industry Development Board
TREP   Traditional Renewable Energy Project
TUP    Timber Utilization Permit
UNCCD  United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
WD     Wildlife Department
WRM    Wildlife Resource Management

                          Vice President:  Callisto M. Madavo
                         Country Director  Mats Karlsson
                         Sector Manager    Mary A. Barton-Dock
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Edward F. Dwumfour

                                                GHANA
                 NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT, PHASE I


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
    6. Sustainability                                                                18
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
    9. Partner Comments                                                              22
    10. Additional Information                                                       23
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
    Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       36
Map No. IBRD29270

Project ID: P000946                                                  Project Name: Ghana:NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT
Global Supplemental ID: P045188 (Fully Blended)                      Supp. Name: Ghana:FOREST BIODIVERSITY
Team Leader: Edward Felix Dwumfour                                   TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 19, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ghana:NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                                 L/C/TF Number: TF-25165; IDA-30910;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q0140
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (46%); Other social services (38%); Central government
                            administration (9%); Sub-national government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Biodiversity (P);
                            Environmental policies and institutions (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (S); Rural non-farm income generation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 01/31/1996                                      Effective:                           06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 05/12/1998                                         MTR:                             05/28/2001
     Approval: 06/04/1998                                       Closing: 09/30/2000                 06/30/2003



   Supplemental Name: Ghana:FOREST BIODIVERSITY                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-20412

       Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (60%); Central
                            government administration (40%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Other rural development (P); Participation and
                            civic engagement (S)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 09/15/1997                                      Effective: 06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 11/24/1997                                         MTR: 05/28/2001
     Approval: 06/04/1998                                       Closing: 09/30/2004

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           GOVT OF GHANA/MLF; GOVT OF GHANA/GWD
                      Other Partners:      DFID, DANIDA, AfDB,

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Mary Barton-Dock                               Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader at ICR:             Edward Felix Dwumfour
ICR Primary Author:             Nyaneba E. Nkrumah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating
                           Outcome:        S

                    Sustainability:     L
   Institutional Development Impact:    M
                 Bank Performance:      S
            Borrower Performance:       U


                                                 QAG (if available)           ICR
                                Quality at Entry:                             U
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

1.       The wider NRMP project was envisaged as a ten year Adjustable Program Loan (APL) with three
main implementation phases.        The first phase ( i.e., this project) was to begin putting in place the
regulatory, legal and institutional framework to facilitate implementation of the ten year APL and be
implemented over two years (1999-2000). In general, phase I was to focus on (a) restructuring and
strengthening sector institutions, (b) finalizing policy reform and enacting legislation related to resource
pricing, (c) forest concession allocation and management and (d) piloting collaborative resource
management programs. Thus phase I was to set the stage for natural resource management interventions in
Ghana. The second phase (NRMP II, to be implemented from 2001-2004) was to support the initial
implementation of the collaborative resource management programs, focusing on selected sites considered
priorities from environmental, economic or social view points.           The third phase (NRMP III, to be
implemented from 2005-2008) was to complete implementation of the program country-wide and ensure
that the system of collaborative management with local communities were properly institutionalized at
national, regional and district levels.

2.       The developmental objectives for the entire ten year APL and specifically for Phase I (the Project)
are listed below:

A. DEVELOPMENTAL OBJECTIVE FOR THE ENTIRE TEN YEAR APL: " To protect,
rehabilitate and sustainably manage national land, forest and wildlife resources and to sustainably increase
the income of rural communities who own these resources."

B. GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE FOR THE GEF PORTION OF THE PROJECT:
"to increase the ecological security of globally significant biological resources, especially within threatened
tropical moist forest ecosystems."

C. DEVELOPMENTAL OBJECTIVE FOR THE PROJECT: "establish the institutional and policy
framework for implementing ecologically and socio-economically sustainable management systems for high
forest, savanna woodland and wildlife resources, in collaboration with local communities."

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.       The objective was judged pertinent throughout project implementation and not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
4.       To achieve the first phase objectives, the project included 5 main components:




                                                      - 2 -

I. High Forest Resources Management: (US$4.3 Million IDA, US$14.2 Million Total)

This component focused on assisting the government to design and implement further sectoral policy and
institutional reforms to substantially increase forest royalty rates and enhance revenue capture; improve
concession allocation procedures and concession management; improve sustainability of the forest industry
through the introduction of new legislation; and by streamlining mandates of forest sector agencies and
strengthening their implementation capacity. The project would build on the experience of the pilot
Collaborative Forest Management Initiative in participatory forest management and conservation
education.     The component encompassed 6 subcomponents: policy and legislative reform, sector
institutional reform, integrated forest reserve management; forest resource management-off reserve, wood
industry reform and plantation development.

II. Savannah Resource Management: ($2.7 Million IDA, US$4.5 Million Total)

This component focused on improving the operational framework for harvesting and processing woodfuels,
and strengthen field extension capacity through the creation of a multidisciplinary resorce management
center to work in collaboration with local communities and the district level environmental and planning
committees to promote integrated management of soil, water and natural land cover. Pilot activities to
improve woodland management and revenue generation with increased local community involvement were
to be developed, along with initiatives to improve woodfuel marketing and utilization.

III. Wildlife Resource Management ($1.6 Million IDA, US$3.2 Million Total)

This component was to strengthen the capacity of the Wildlife Department (WD) to improve the social and
economic sustainability of wildlife management programs and foster effective collaboration with
communities, private sector, NGOs and other partners. Through this component there would be
implementation of park management plans, development of priority park infrastructure, building of an
extension program for communities adjacent to wildlife reserves and increased public awareness. Specific
activities in this component were to a) restructure the wildlife department; b) revise all protected area
management plans and operationalize these through annual work planning procedures; c) prioritize
proposed infrastructure development programs at each site to be implemented in later phases and d)
develop extension capacity within WD to support district and community-level wildlife conservation and
management.

IV. Environmental Management Coordination ($ 0.7 Million IDA, US$1.5 Million Total)

This component was to support the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to implement its Strategic
Vision for environmental management coordination and through EPA and the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) strengthen the capacity of district level environmental
management committees to prepare local environmental action plans based on catchment-level land use
planning. Specifically the Project was to: a) implement EPA's human resources development plan; b)
develop regional and district Environmental Information Systems (EIS) and a geo-spatial information
framework; and c) prepare a National Action Program to Combat Deserification.

V. Biodiversity Conservation (US$2.26 Million GEF)

This component was GEF funded and was to be implemented over six years, covering the first two phases
of the program. It was to support implementation of key elements of the Forest Protection Strategy and the
National Biodiversity Strategy, in particular the strengthening of the biodiversity conservation and
management capacity of the Ghana Forest Service, protect priority conservation areas within existing
production forest reserves, establish selected reserves as Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas (GSBAs)
that were to be taken out of production, and initiate pilot activities to generate revenues from activities
other than logging in selected forest reserves. The GEF grant supporting activities under this component is



                                                     - 3 -

still ungoing and it will therefore be evaluated under a separate review.

3.4 Revised Components:
5.       The Components were not revised during project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
6.       Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory overall by the ICR team. The objectives clearly reflected
the priorities identified in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time (Report No. 17002-GH,
August 13, 1997, discussed by the Board on September 2, 1997) which called for the promotion of
environmentally sustainable social and economic development by "capacity building within communities to
encourage environmental protection and sustainable natural resource management." The project also
reflected essential priorities of the Ghana Government's natural resource policy, embodied in the Forestry
and Wildlife Policy and Forest Development Master Plan (1996-2000) which are still relevant today. This
policy aims to a) ensure a sustained and adequate supply of forest and woodland products; b) prevent
further environmental degradation due to forest depletion and inappropriate farming practices and c)
stimulate community involvement in the management of the resources. In addition, the project design
appropriately incorporated lessons learnt from previous projects, particularly the Forest Resource
Management Project (FRMP) which closed in June, 1997 and provided vital lessons ( i.e., ensuring that
effective sector policy environment and efficiently operating sector institutions are in place before
wider-scale resource management is initiated).

There were several serious flaws in project design, however that were largely responsible for the problems
encountered during Project implementation. These flaws included complex project design, inadequate
evaluation of institutional capacities and ambitious objectives for such a short implementation period.
Examples of such complex design issues are:

l Many sub-components were funded using counterpart funding. Of the total project cost of $25.7
     million, almost half ($12.1 million) was to come from 6 cofinanciers (AfDB, DANIDA, EU, DFID,
     NEDA, WFP) through 14 different technical assistance and investment projects. While this may have
     presented an opportunity for creating meaningful partnerships and for enhancing donor coordination
     skills, it also presented some significant challenges: a) the launching of some sub-components funded
     by donors and government counterpart funding was sometimes delayed; b) some donors (AfDB, EU,
     WFP) did not provide funding as expected for a variety of reasons, resulting in a significant funding
     gap; c) several donors were responsible for funding different parts of the same component and slippage
     in one area often affected the delivery of the rest of the component and d) the country had little
     experience in handling the level of coordination demanded by the project. In fact, this was the first time
     the Ministry of Lands and Forestry had worked with several of these donors and this was further
     complicated because each of these donors had their own procedures and requirements.

l The Ministry of Land and Forestry (MLF) had to work across four other line ministries (Energy, Food
     and Agriculture, Environment and Science, Local Government and Rural Development), creating
     delays.

l Project design failed to identify as a risk, that it would be very difficult to complete the myriad of
     policy reforms in a complex sector such as Forestry in 2 years. Thus, the project was overly ambitious
     given the number of activities in each sub-component, the number of co-financiers and the weak human
     capacity at the MLF.

8.       These factors were major contributors to implementation slippages (overall 2.5 years), and also the
relatively lower ratings since the Wildlife Component was significantly affected by delays in donor
contributions.




                                                      - 4 -

9.       No quality at entry review was carried out for this project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
10.      Overall, the achievement of objectives and outputs under the Project was moderately satisfactory.
The objective of the project was to establish the institutional and policy framework for implementing
ecologically and socio-economically sustainable management systems for high forest, savanna woodland
and wildlife resources, in collaboration with local communities. Despite a myriad of problems, in large
part caused by the complex design of the project, the developmental objectives were achieved for high
forest and savannah woodland areas. Emphasis on the success of these two components in the rating is
because these components are particularly important in setting the policy and institutional framework for
sustainable natural resource management. Specifically, the project has a) made significant inroads in
reforming the natural resource sector through legislative changes, although over a much longer time frame
(4.5 years) than the two years originally envisaged. These included two forestry related Acts that targeted
sector strengthening and plantation development for private sector and rural communities and two Forestry
Amendments that have paved the way for competitive bidding in the allocation of timber resources and the
adoption of social responsibility agreements between communities and timber contractors; b) increased
revenues in the sector as a result of legislative and policy changes and c) made significant institutional
reforms via the establishment and staffing of the Forestry Commission (FC) and the Savannah Resource
Management Center (SRMC). These institutions were key to building capacity to manage reform in the
sector.

11.      Under these two components, the project has achieved many of its key outputs (see Annex 1): a)
the new forestry regulations led to an observable increase in the collection of outstanding royalties - from
25% to 95%; b) 12 priority reserve management plans were completed; c) a log export ban study was
completed; d) 6 community based pilots and 6 priority off-reserve watersheds were planned e) the revision
of benefit sharing arrangements for natural forest timber revenue yielded about US$1.25 million in
incremental benefit to stool landowners per annum and f) a national action plan for Forestry was drafted
though not yet formally adopted. The project also achieved 90% of its triggers for initiation of Phase II of
the Progarm.

12.      The pilot community participation aspect of the project worked well and was satisfactory in terms
of involving communities in the formation of management plans.              In total, 12 final collaborative
management plans were completed for 6 reserves in the high forest zone and surveys and planning were
completed for 6 priority off-reserve watersheds. In addition, 12 management plans for 12 communities
were completed in the savannah zone. Phase I was to test out different methods of engaging communities
and their relative costs and benefits prior to making an informed decision about what
methodology/approach of collaborative management to use. These approaches were piloted in 12 different
communities and community members engaged in a number of activities including agroforestry,
beekeeping, nursery establishment, composting, small ruminant production, soya bean planting, and more.

13.      There are areas where the project has been less than satisfactory and this has largely resulted in the
lower ratings: The restructuring of the Wildlife Department was significantly delayed, primarily due to the
late arrival (March, 2002) of donor funding for the component. This has led to non-achievement of key
outputs (see Annex 1) for the Wildlife component, and subsequently, a failure to fully achieve the
developmental objective related to this component. For example, the Institutional Restructuring Plan for the
Ghana Wildlife Department has yet to be fully implemented and the NGO-implemented extension program
for conservation education and community based wildlife management is not yet ready for implementation.


                                                    - 5 -

Thus, this component is rated unsatisfactory.

14.      The GEF funded biodiversity conservation component's progress is unsatisfactory thus far in
achieving its output targets. However, the GEF component does not close till September, 2004 and
therefore, although its progress is described, it cannot be officially rated as part of this ICR. While there
has been significant progress in identifying GSBAs, the demarcation and gazetting process is still
incomplete. In addition the livelihood revolving fund, envisioned to reduce encroachment into GSBAs, has
not yet been established. However, some of these activities may still be completed by the time the GEF
grant closes. A separate ICR will be done once this GEF component is complete.

15.      This was a very complex and ambitious project design that was impossible to complete in 2 years,
and considerable effort on the part of the bank team was required to reach the targets of this project, even
with the longer time-frame, given problems with donor and counter-part funding. Indeed, the fact that the
developmental objectives were largely achieved (for high forest and savannah components) under these
circumstances is impressive.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: High Forest Management (14.2 M Total, IDA 4.3 M; IDA Reallocation 2.73
M; Actual IDA 2.725M )

16.      SUMMARY. Despite initial delays, largely due to a) the time required to get the cabinet and
parliament to ratify and approve the policy and institutional reforms required under this component and b)
a strong timber industry lobby which slowed down the implementation of the reforms (e.g., benefit sharing,
taxation and fiscal measures were opposed by the industry); c) delayed cofinancing from the United
Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), and d) failure to obtain funding for the
plantation sub-component, the component met most of its key objectives. In concrete terms, component
outputs included a) significant legislative and policy reform that has led to an increased collection of
outstanding timber royalties and a significant increase of revenues into the sector (US$11.2 million); b)
creation of a financially viable forest commission institution; c) preparation of a log export study and d)
preparation of 12 priority reserve management plans with communities (see Annex 1). Only a few
activities under some sub-components were not fully implemented largely due to failure to get the expected
donor cofinancing. However, the key indicators important in achieving the DO were largely attained (4 out
of 5 key performance indicators). Thus, in achieving the developmental objectives set out in the PAD, this
component is rated satisfactory because it contributed significantly to establishing the legal and policy
framework for NRMP. The rating is based on a detailed assessment of the sub-components below:

Detailed Analysis of Outputs for the High Forest Management Component

17.      Sector Legislation and Policies: Under this sub-component, several vital pieces of legislation were
adopted to establish the legal framework for NRMP management in Ghana, a) the Forestry Plantation Fund
Act, 2000 (Act. 583) was revised to provide funding for plantation development and widen the scope of
financial support to include small-scale plantation growers and public sector institutions. This legislation
was aimed at ensuring the provision of sustainable livelihoods for rural communities through plantation
development; b) The Forestry Commission Act, 1999 (Act 571) was to empower the FC to act as a
corporate body responsible for the implementation of forest policies and the management of the utilization
of forest resources in the country; c) The Amendments to the Timber Resource Management Act, 2002
(Act 547) and Timber Resources Management Act Regulations, 2002 (LI 1649) were to (i) extend liability
to those who haul, evacuate or transport illegal timber, (ii) to provide for the adoption of transparent
procedures for awarding timber rights through a timber utilization contract (TUC),(iii) to ensure


                                                    - 6 -

consultation with stools, landowners and district assemblies during the selection process, (iv) to adopt a
social responsibility agreement to assist inhabitants within contract areas with amenities and (iv) to provide
for the increase of stumpage rates to correctly reflect the market price of timber.

18.      Outputs: The legislative reform was highly successful at redressing the underpricing of timber
resources in the market by raising timber stumpage (royalty plus forest administration fees) from US$2.00
to US$11.00. Royalty and stumpage collection rates were also improved under the project. The price of
logs were also increased from US$3/m to US$15/m to better reflect the real price of logs in the
                                            3               3


international market. In addition, the project has supported the lifting of a 45% duty on imported timber, to
ensure that the timber prices are market based. A log-tracking system has also been developed which
tracks trees from stock survey maps through felling and extraction, using District felling returns, to the
mill, using Log Measurement and Conveyance Certificates, and eventually to an export permit which
details the shipping information. As a result of legislative and subsequent policy interventions under the
project, royalty collection rates increased from 25% to 95% and the stumpage collection rates from 45% to
97% (see Annex 1). The sum of these interventions has resulted in a significant increase in revenues to the
sector. A total incremental revenue of 81.3 billion cedis (US$11.2 million) was earned from 1999-2003,
with 32.5 billion cedis (US$4.5 million or 40%) and 48.8 billion cedis (US$6.7 million or 60%) going to
forestry/timber owners and Forestry Commission respectively. The project also introduced benefit
frameworks using contractual agreements, which, over the long-term, are expected to lead to significant
increase in the revenues going to the traditional areas and forest-owning communities. Modified Taungya
Systems were introduced by the project and under a pilot scheme using the new benefit framework, farmers
are expected to yield an additional benefit of approximately US$8.00 per hectare per annum and stool
landowners are expected to earn an additional US$1.25 Million per annum.

19.      Institutional Development. Originally, institutional reforms were aimed at: a) transforming the
Forestry Department into a semi-autonomous Forest Service (FS) and b) establishing a Timber Industry
Development Board by merging the Forest Products Inspection Bureau and the Timber Export
Development Board. However, provisions in the 1992 Constitution did not allow for the transformation of
the Forestry Department and therefore the old Forestry Commission Act was dissolved and a new act, The
Forestry Commission Act, 1999 (Act 571) established a new Forestry Commission (FC), which as a
corporate body created 3 divisions under it.

20.      Outputs: The new FC was successfully established and has 3 new divisions that include the Forest
Services Division, the Wildlife Division and the Timber Industry Development Division.                   A staff
redeployment exercise which terminated 2500 staff allowed the FC to recruit fewer but more qualified
personnel. In addition, all managerial positions in the FC have been filled. The FC has also embarked on a
full-scale decentralization, creating charter service units attached to the district forestry offices and this has
given local communities an avenue for interacting with the FC. Thus, the FC is functional and has started
implementing some of the components. For example, one of the first tasks of the FC was fusing the two
timber trade agencies into one. In doing so, the FC has removed duplications and overlaps, reduced
transaction and overhead costs and increased corporate efficiency and performance while freeing resources
for this operation. Most importantly, the project has created a financially sustainable institution. The FC
receives a portion of the revenues from the increased royalty fees and is financially viable.

21.      The institutional transformation of the sector has also culminated in the establishment of
partnership arrangements (public-private sector forest forum and a public sector-parliament engagement
platform) between public, private and civil society organizations. The platforms will share and exchange
information pertaining to forestry and wildlife and for monitoring the performance and providing oversight



                                                      - 7 -

of the sector.

22.      Private Sector Plantation Development. The sub-component aimed to establish a mechanism for
funding private sector plantation development. A key activity in this sub-component was the establishment
of the Forest Plantations Development Center and a Plantations Development Fund. The NRMP would
finance personnel salaries and allowances, operating costs, equipment, seeds, civil works and consultancies
on determining the economic feasibility of large-scale commercial plantations. To overcome the shortage
of planting material, the project was to establish an autonomous and self-financing Seed Bank and support
development of a decentralized private sector seed distribution system for the sale of certified tree seeds
linked with the Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG) and its field stations. This sub-component is
rated unsatisfactory because the funding mechanism was never established and thus there was no long-term
involvement of the private sector. This was largely because, the sub-component was to be jointly funded
by IDA, EU and AfDB. IDA support started with project launch in 1999 but EU and AfDB withdrew their
support because they decided that the investment would not lead to poverty alleviation.

23.      Outputs: The private sector plantation sub-component started off well, a series of workshops were
held in Dec 1999 to inform diverse stakeholders on the fund. As a result, the project registered some 3500
expressions of interest, 1500 of which had confirmed access to land for planting 2 hectares or more per
year for five years. Major civil works involving the construction of the forest plantation development center
were completed and a plantation project manager appointed. In addition, the operating modalities for the
Land bank, the Forest Plantation Development Fund and technical procedures were established. Seed
collection had also been initiated and FORIG collected sufficient seed for 3600 ha in 2000 and 4600 in
2001. A seed storage facility and a small cool room were also established. However, in achieving its
project objectives, this sub-component is rated unsatisfactory because all activity stopped after these major
physical accomplishments. One of the problems was funding - the progress of the sub-component began to
lag significantly as a result of the withdrawal of EU and AfDB funding. This was because the donors were
concerned that this sub-component would have a deterimental effect on the poor. In addition, there was
concern from a technical standpoint that FC planting may be proceeding without plans for best practice
establishment and inadequate technical supervision. Thus, there were very valid and positive reasons for
not going forward with this sub-component. The created infrastructure, however, will not go to waste - the
center is to be used under the AfDB's Community Forest Plantation Project.

24.      Integrated Forest Reserve Management. This sub-component was supported by the Project
(IDA), Forest Protection and Resource Use Management Project (FORUM/GTZ), Forest Reserve
Management in the Transitional Zone Project (JICA) and the proposed Forest Sector Development Project
Phase 2 (DfID). Its aim was to produce collaborative plans to define long-term forest management
objectives for each reserve and a cost-benefit analysis for six of these.

25.      Outputs: Twelve strategic management plans for priority forest reserves were prepared
collaboratively with communities. The management plans for each reserve describe the state of the
resource, the management, prescribed rights of the communities bordering reserve to access forest and
non-timber forest products, the responsibilities of the communities and the Forest Service (FS), benefit
sharing arrangements and distribution and the monitoring system for the reserve. Collaborative Forest
Committees (CFSs) were formed and tasked to oversee protection of the reserve and report any illegal
activities, provide assistance for boundary control, assist in boundary clearing and develop wider use of the
forest. In addition,    integrated resource inventories (covering flora, fauna and socio-economic) were
completed in over 110 on-reserve natural forests. A series of workshops were held to discuss and agree on
management options with the communities. Each management plan was implemented collaboratively and
meetings were attended by communities that bordered the reserve. Socio-economic and biological surveys


                                                     - 8 -

of 22 of the over 260 forest reserves have also been completed. Cost-benefit analyses however have yet to
be completed for the six reserves (see Annex 1). This delay was due to failure to reach agreement on the
approach/methodology for the analysis between the Government, DFID and the Bank.

26.       Log-Export Ban and Chainsaw Lumbering and Sales Ban               A log export ban study was
successfully completed. The final study was technically sound but GOG was not convinced to immediately
lift the log-export ban. It was agreed during the mid-term review that the Government would take measures
to address market distortions and gradually lift the suspension by allowing exports of annually
predetermined volumes of logs allocated to interested exporters through a well regulated competitive quota
process.

27.       Outputs: The ban on chainsaw lumbering put in place by the government was to be lifted under the
project by ensuring that alternative livelihoods were provided for chainsaw operators (e.g., absorbing
operators into reforestation, by engaging operators in legal ventures such as salvaging felling and forest
plantation harvesting and mobile mills). However, this did not occur because the government was unwilling
to lift the ban. Instead the government put some measures in place to try to reduce illegal chainsaw
logging. These measures had mixed results. The measures included requiring TUC holders to supply 20%
of their total production to the domestic market and granting felling permits to 56 selected timber
companies to enable them to produce lumber solely for the local market. On the positive side, the
Government had hoped that this would meet local demand and therefore put chainsaw operators out of
business without lifting the ban and they report (borrower's ICR) that the supply of chainsaw lumber had
been reduced by 40% in the market place. On the negative side, the milling industry is generally reluctant
to put their sawn timber on the local market for prices many times lower than for the export price for wood.
In addition, sawn timber has been generally more expensive than chainsaw timber, and some communities
have complained about prices.

Component 2: Savannah Resource Management (US$4.5 M Total, IDA 2.7 M; Reallocation
2.226M, Actual 2.178M )

28.       SUMMARY:         The component is rated satisfactory because it put in place the institutional
framework for sustainable natural resource management in the savannah areas and was successful in
collaborating with local communities to begin the process of producing sustainable management plans. The
rating is based on a detailed assessment of sub-components outlined below. Implementing activities in the
three northern Savannah regions of the country proved challenging because there was little knowledge of
what worked and what did not. There were initial integration and coordination problems between this
component and the DANIDA supported Traditional Renewable Energy Project (TREP) and further
problems coordinating and managing the component with participation from 4 public organizations.
Funding was also initially an issue. The component was coordinated by the newly created Savanna
Resource Management Center (SRMC) which suffered most from the late and inadequate release of
government counterpart funds (The center was funded by IDA, GEF, DANIDA and GOG). An added
challenge was that the civil works procurement under the component exceeded budgetary provisions and
this took time to resolve and 3 years before bidding documents went out for tender. These challenges were
eventually overcome. To this extent, all 4 key performance indicators were satisfactorily attained.
Specifically, the SRMC was established and staffed with operating modalities, six pilots for woodland
reserve management were also identified and planned, surveys and planning were completed for six priority
off-reserve watersheds and a National Action Program to Combat Dessertification was discussed and
endorsed (Annex 1). Most successful was the collaborative community involvement. This component
focused on using different collaborative schemes in several pilot communities to produce management plans



                                                    - 9 -

as well as to teach communities about natural resource management. The January, 2002 mission noted that
this component "has shown an impressive record in the mobilization of community members and civil
society organizations and the formation of community-based groups." This assessment was based on a
survey carried out covering 146 people in three northern regions. This component worked across 26
communities and 9 district assemblies. Points of action included 8 forest reserves (Kenikeni,
Sensanbligbini, Gambaga West, Tankwidi, Red Volta East, Red Volta West, Kamba and Nuale).

Detailed Analysis of Outputs for the Savannah Resource Management Component

29.       Institutional Development: The SRMC was formed to help implement the activities included
under the component which was seen as innovative because of its commitment to a participatory and
integrated approach.     The Project established the SRMC as an institutional framework to support
implementation of project activities, as well as serve as a Technology and Systems Demonstration Center.
The role of District Assemblies (DA) was also integrated into this component. The SRMC staff served as
subject matter specialists to DAs, local communities and implementing agencies. The agency was to be
funded by line ministries and through the project.

30.      Outputs: Achievements by the end of Phase I include the establishment and operationalization of
the SRMC. By June 2000, recruitment for the SRMC through secondment from various participating
ministries was completed.     Staff skills included competencies in collaborative resource management,
integrated watershed management, woodland management and traditional energy resource management. By
February 2003, all civil works were completed. This included 12 residential accommodation for staff in
Tamale, 1 bungalow in Wa and 6 rehabilitated quarters in Bolgatanga. Forest offices in Tamale, Wa and
Walewale were rehabilitated while a new regional/district Forestry office was constructed in Bolgatanga. A
technology systems demonstration center was also set up in Pwalugu near Bolgatanga. SRMC staff have
initiated several programs in the communities. These include nursery establishment, boundary planting,
establishment of woodlots, contour bounding, composting of crop residue and improvement in small
ruminants production (e.g., goats, rams, pigs) and soya beans for increasing farm income.

31.      Collaborative Pilot-Programs in Off-Reserve and On-Reserve Areas: For off-reserve areas,
collaborative programs were piloted to rehabilitate sections of degraded water catchment areas due to poor
land-use practices, bushfires and excessive harvesting of fuelwoods.           Infrastructure support included
watering systems, propagation bins, potting facilities, water tanks and spray equipment. On the reserve
areas, participatory programs were launched to support local communities and DAs to define interventions
and prepare resource management plans for pilot forest reserves. The resource management activities
varied from site to site but many included production of seedlings from private nurseries for rehabilitation
of degraded areas, establishment and maintenance of firebreaks, sustainable harvesting of forest products
and conservation of biodiversity. The SRMC assisted in training programs.

32.      Outputs: Outputs for off-reserve areas included a) 6 integrated watershed management plans
prepared to cover Kenikeni, Sinsagblewini, Naaha, Samoa-Pina, Sonyo and Larabanga. Communities were
also organized to set aside part of their degraded and critical intact areas as community woodlands reserves
covered by simple forest management plans; b) 1200 farmers in 12 pilot communities were taught soil and
water management techniques including soil bunding, crop rotation, mulching, preservation and
agroforestry techniques; c) 30 ha of enrichment planting in degraded forest reserves were completed and 10
ha of woodlots established; d) In all, about 6000 ha of woodlands outside the reserves were set aside and
protected from fires and governed by local by-laws and regulations; e) 6 pilot communities were also
assisted, with materials, training and simple tools, to operate their own nurseries; f)The project has
established local community natural resource management committees (CONARS) in all pilot sites. These


                                                    - 10 -

committees are operational and have terms of references that go beyond simple advisory functions to
planning, implementation and monitoring of annual programs and impacts; g) A Participatory Technology
Development (PTD) manual for natural resources management was developed; h) about 1030 people, of
which at least 118 were women, were beneficiaries of micro-project activities in improved bee-keeping,
production and marketing of Shea Butter, rice processing and dry season gardening and i) baseline
socio-economic and biological data needed for developing collaborative management plans for selected
forest reserves in the three regions were completed.       For on-reserve areas, outputs included: a) the
establishment of 8 Collaborative Forest Management Plans and 6 Community Woodland Plans are about
70% completed; b) 200ha of exotic tree species were planted to ensure rapid re-growth; c) boundary pillars
were repaired or replaced to ensure proper demarcation of the reserves; c) fire-belts were constructed to
protect the reserves against perennial bushfire; d) protection of watershed areas as initiated through tree
planting activities; f) agroforestry interventions - including the planting of fruit trees in fringe.
Communities received revenue from the sale of seeds.

33.      An analysis of the stakeholder involvement processes showed it was very high. Nine DAs were
integrated into the savanna resource management system through the District Development Plans.
Collaborative relations with NGOs and Civil Society was established using the PTD Approach developed
by the SRMC and communities were involved through Councils for Natural Resources (CONARs).

34.      Woodfuel Energy Sub-component The project supported activities aimed at securing a
sustainable supply of woodfuels to meet current and future rural and urban demand and was supported by
the Traditional Energy Component of DANIDA's Energy Sector Programme Support. The subcomponent
was to establish a Traditional Energy Unit (TEU) to coordinate all activities. The TEU was established as
part of the SRMC.

35.      Outputs: This sub-component was satisfactorily established:       a) The TEU was successfully
established; b) A national woodfuels policy was drafted on the basis of a series of workshops in selected
districts with key stakeholders; c) A study on the production and marketing of woodfuels in selected centers
was also completed; d) 4 Woodfuel producing and trading associations were formed and strengthened in
Tamale, Wa, Bolgatanga and Wulugu; e) 11 Community Natural Resources Management Committees
(CONSARs) were formed to represent the communities on matters related to traditional energy planning
and 36 village level groups were formed, trained and resourced in woodland management, fire management
and tree planting; f) Various studies have been conducted into markets and marketing arrangements as a
potential for revenue generation; g) training programs and information systems to account for woodfuel
levy fuels have also been accomplished; h) 5 of 6 District Energy Profiles have been developed. The sixth
was suspended due to security issues; i) 3600 hectares of woodlands outside the reserve were surveyed,
mapped, inventoried and reserved by pilot communities for future production of woodfuels; j) 70ha of
woodlots were established by communities to rehabilitate degraded woodlands; k) 20 farmers and 4 groups
were assisted to establish agroforestry woodlots on farms in the Upper West Region and l) In Tamale, the
Woodfuel Traders Association at Aboabo established 5 ha of woodfuel plantation of cassia and teak at
Tolon Yipeligu.

Component 3: Wildlife Resource Management (US 3.2 M Total; IDA 1.6 M; Reallocation
1.28 M; Actual 1.263M)

36. SUMMARY: The objective of this component was to improve the institutional, legal, administrative
and technical capacity for the management of Parks, Reserves and off-reserve wildlife resources and to
establish a framework for community participation in wildlife management. financing of this component by



                                                    - 11 -

the Royal Netherlands Government (RNG) was much delayed, resulting in the poor progress of the
component. In fact, the aid agreement between GOG and RNG was signed in November, 2001 and the
release of funds only started in March 2002. This has meant that implementation of the component could
not be completed by the end of the project. As a result, most of the activities in this component are still
pending and others appear rushed, resulting in a very adhoc and superficial reform of the wildlife sector. In
this regard, only 1 of 3 key indicators were sufficiently achieved. However, there have been some
achievements in these component: Wildlife fees were been increased upward of 2000% to reflect current
economic value of resources and this, coupled with the increase in tourism as a result of some
improvements in some wildlife visitation areas, has resulted in an increase in revenues to the sector. For
example, at the Agumatsa Wildlife Sanctuary in the Volta Region, the number of visitors in year 2001 was
6,432 with a revenue of 6.9 million cedis or US$955 hundred. However, in 2002, this number had almost
doubled to 12,319, with a corresponding revenue of 13.2 million cedis or US$1826 thousand. This upward
trend has also been observed in the Shai Hills Resource Reserve, where the number of visitors more than
tripled to 4848 with a corresponding revenue of 28.2 million cedis or US$3903 thousand. Despite these
increases in revenues, the component did not complete improving the institutional, administrative and
technical capacity for managing Parks and Reserves. Thus, in achieving the developmental objective set
out in the PAD, this component is rated unsatisfactory. The rating is based on a detailed assessment of the
sub-components outlined below:

Detailed Analysis of Outputs for the Wildlife Component

37.      Institutional Development; The Wildlife Department (WD) was to be completely restructured
with new management procedures introduced and a Training Plan under implementation.

38.      Outputs: Although the restructuring is still underway and its new organization structure is still
being developed, some progress has been made: a)           New units, namely Operations, Planning and
Development and Administration, Finance and Human Resources have been added to existing units; b) Job
evaluation and competency profiles have been initiated and an institutional development advisor has been
recruited. In addition, 4 consultants have been recruited to aid with the transformation process; c) training
has been organized for senior staff but not other staff and d) a draft policy on Collaborative Wildlife
Management is being finalized. Thus, institutional development is well underway, but not yet complete,
given the late arrival of donor funding.

39.      Community Participation in Wildlife Management: This component was to ensure the
participation of rural communities in wildlife management activities. NRMP I was to support the work of
a Community Participation Desk within the Operations Unit.           In addition, Protected Area outreach
programs were to be initiated at 6 reserves (Kakum, Ankasa, Bia, Mole, Shai Hills and Kyabobo). Outside
the reserves, community based activities were to focus on bush meat licensing and bush meat production
projects.

40.      Outputs: A Community Participation Desk has been established within the Operations Unit. With
support from the WD officers, some communities have started bush-meat production. There has been
registration of hunters and bushmeat traders and formation of hunting committees within the 27
communities fringing Mole National Park. However, implementation of this sub-component has been
limited. The protected area outreach plans have been prepared and costed for the 6 reserves.

41.      Public Education and Awareness of Wildlife Resources: This sub-component was to support
activities for a public education unit complete with reference materials, desk-top publishing and audio
visual facilities. Partnerships were to be developed with the formal education sector, NGOs and the mass


                                                   - 12 -

media.

42.      Outputs: The wildlife education resource unit has been established and made functional and public
education and awareness of wildlife resources has greatly been heightened. Evidence of the success of this
sub-component is shown by the increase of visitors to several wildlife and nature reserves - As indicated
earlier (also, see Annex 3) there has been an increase of visitors at the Agumatsa Wildlife Sanctuary, the
Shai Hills Resource Reserve, and the Kakum National Park. This has translated to an increase in revenues
to the Wildlife Division, District Assembly and Communities living close to the reserves.

43.      Infrastructure Improvements at Wildlife and National Parks: These activities were to support
limited and prioritized infrastructure improvements for selected protected areas such as Mole, Digya and
Shai Hills national parks. This is still being implemented. At the close of the project, the civil works at
Mole National Park have started but are not yet completed. Bidding has been completed for the Bia Hills
Tourism Center and the fencing at the Shai Hills Park.

44.      Sub-Components that have not yet been implemented: a) There is a sub-component to launch
studies to develop ecotourism investment opportunities based around Ghana's National Parks to be initiated
in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism. This has not yet been implemented; b) a sub-component was
to strengthen the capacity of WCD to undertake research and monitoring functions. A library was to be
established and catalogued but this has not yet been done; c) The research and monitoring activities for
wildlife resource management have not yet been implemented and d) a sub-component was to consolidate
the achievements of the previous Wetlands Management Project by ensuring that the necessary policy
framework and institutional arrangements were in place to support collaborative management initiatives for
sustainable conservation of wetlands. In addition, the sub-component was to ensure the promulgation of a
National Wetlands Policy as well as complete prioritized infrastructural development to support education,
research and tourism. These activities have not yet been implemented.

Component 4: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION (US2.3 Million, GEF US2.1 Million;
Actual 1.8M)

45.       Assessment of the Biodiversity Component: The objective of this component was to identify,
document, demarcate and legally establish areas of high importance for global biodiversity within the high
forest zone. Implementation of this component has been very slow and unsatisfactory. However, it must be
noted that this component is not complete and therefore will be evaluated separately in another completion
report by GEF. To date, the elections and change in government delayed approval of the GBSA process.
Following this, the long slippage in completing the demarcation and legal description of GBSAs and PPAs
was due to delays in procurement. In addition, while biological surveys of GBSAs were started in August,
2001 and completed within a relatively short time, the physical and legal demarcation of the proposed
GBSAs had to be deferred until negotiations on de-registration of TUCs that originally included those
GSBAs were concluded and no battles or cases were pending before the court. 2) The sub-component on
the alternative livelihood investment fund, which would have served to prevent encroachment into GBSAs,
was never implemented because of delays caused by problems with the consultant's report on investment
funds. Thus, modalties for the actual disbursement of the fund are yet to be produced although terms of
reference have been prepared for the hiring of another consultant to finish this outstanding task.    The
implementation period of this GEF component is 6 years and, if considerable progress is made in the
remaining time, this component could be eventually satisfactory.

46.      Outputs: Despite the slow implementation rate, the component has made some progress - The Site



                                                    - 13 -

Preparation and Management Planning and Southern Dry Forest Establishment sub-components were
successfully established: a) 30 forest reserves were identified and excluded from timber harvesting on the
merit of their high significance as biodiversity-rich areas. These reserves were categorized as GSBAs and
Southern Dry Forests (SDF) with the latter mainly in the Winneba forest district; b) Contracts have been
awarded for the survey, demarcation and pillaring of 22 GSBA/SDFs and work has been completed on 17
of these forest reserves while work is still ongoing for the remaining 5. Thus 77% of GSBAs instead of the
90% expected (Annex 1) have been demarcated. The Research and Monitoring sub-component was
successful in obtaining most of its objectives. Baseline surveys and research completed include:
socioeconomic surveys for forest communities living close to 22 of the GSBAs and Floral studies for 22
GSBAs. Faunal Surveys for 22 GSBAs are yet to be completed. Feasibility studies on Ecotourism
potential for Atewa and Cape Three Points GSBAs have also been completed. A MoU has also been signed
between the FC and Conservation International to conduct an aerial survey and videography on the 22
GSBAs for establishment of digital database to support management decisions. Research into provenance
protection for heavily exploited timber species has been completed but these areas have yet to be
demarcated.

Component 5: Environmental Management Coordination ( 1.5 Million, IDA 0.7 Million;
Reallocation 0.80M Actual 0.800M)

47.      SUMMARY: The objective of this component was the environmental management coordination
and monitoring of natural resources at national, regional and district planning levels.    This component
successfully completed the reporting requirements for the High Forest, Savannah and Wildlife Management
Components. In addition, all of the key outputs for this component were satisfactorily accomplished.
Therefore, this component is rated satisfactory based on the project outputs outlined below.

48.      Outputs:     The EPA's Human Resource Development Plan (HRDP) sub-component was
successful in identifying and implementing specific staff development over the life of the project: In all, six
staff members have been sent overseas to complete training in pollution control management and urban air
quality, industrial waste management and environment and mining. One staff has been sponsored to pursue
a Masters in International Maritime Law. At the end of the project, the HRDP had attained approximately
70% of its targets and has largely trained and oriented senior staff. Regional EIS systems were
successfully installed in 10 regions and 6 pilot districts. The sub-component on land use mapping is almost
complete. The National Framework for Geospatial Information Management                     (NAFGIM) was
successfully set up as the Spatial Data Infrastructure for Ghana. As part of the Geo-Spatial Version of
Census sub-component, participating institutions have begun creating and contributing metadata and
national workgroups for data policy and data standards development have been formed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
49.      A complete economic and financial analysis was carried out at appraisal. This analysis could not
be reproduced for lack of complete information. The NPV for specific components has likely been
achieved, even though it has not done so for the project as a whole given the status of implementation of
some project activities. For the High Forest Component, there was an incremental benefit to the Forestry
Commission of 48.8 billion cedis or US$ 6.7 million from 1999 to 2003. The incremental benefit to forest
owners was 32.5 billion cedis or US$4.4 million. For the Savannah Component, a total of 180 ha of soya
bean, 25 ha cowpea and 200 ha of maize were cultivated. The total incremental revenue was approximately
630 million cedis or US$87,197 per year starting in year 2002. For the Wildlife component, revenues have
increased upward of 422 million cedis or US$58,000 dollars for the year 2002. Other economic benefits
from improved protection and management of forests could not be computed but included biodiversity



                                                     - 14 -

conservation, carbon sequestration, regulation of stream flows and soil conservation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
50.     The PAD estimated the financial rate of return (FRR) for the Plantation Development
sub-component at 12-18% depending on the model used. As this sub-component was not completed, no
FRR can be estimated.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
51.     The Project's institutional development impact is rated as modest. Although the FC and SRMC
have had a substantive institutional development impact, the effect of the ongoing re-organization of the
WD is still unknown and this largely accounts for the lower ratings.

l The FC's development from a civil service organization to a trim corporate body with corresponding
    improvements in its organization and operational performance were substantial as well as its ability to
    impact the project by helping to implement key activities, particularly in the High Forest Component.
    The full scale decentralization of the FC is already improving service and efficiency at the district
    levels. It was envisaged that after 3 years of implementation, the FC would be a financially viable
    institution. During the life of the project, royalty collection rates increased enough to allow the FC
    some financial autonomy.

l The effectiveness of the SRMC as an institution was initially hindered partly by financial issues. The
    budgetary responsibilities of the line ministries had to be more clearly outlined and enforced during the
    course of the project. For one, MOFA and Ministry of Environment sent seconded staff to the SRMC
    but without the accompanying budget because they thought the project would bear all costs. The
    financial issues have been resolved over the life of the project and the SRMC has had a substantial
    institutional impact and staff there have significantly contributed to the success of the component. To
    date, the SRMC is also being used by other bank projects, for exampel, the ongoing US$7.6million
    GEF Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP) to launch pilot activities.

l The District Assemblies were targeted in the project and will eventually assume the role of the SRMC
    but there was no funding ascribed to strengthen them through NRMP I. Although District working
    groups ensure that SRMC activities are reflected in DAs 5-year programs and some initiatives began
    by the SRMC have been adopted by DAs for the entire district, there is a need to more clearly spell out
    how the transition will be implemented and the roles of each institution during the transitional phases.

l The re-organization of the WD is still ongoing and civil works are still being completed. Therefore, the
    exact impact of restructuring on the efficiency of the WD cannot yet be determined.

l Some assistance was given to the EPA to improve its human resources capacity. However, although
    mostly complete (70%), the institutional development impact of the re-organized EPA cannot be fully
    determined at this stage.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
52.     Donor Co-financing: The project was to be largely funded by 6 different co-financers and for
many components, co-financing did not materialize or came too late. This had a significant impact on the
project, given that donor financing of $12.1 million was needed to support the project. This substantially
affected the project outputs and, in particular, the successful completion of the Wildlife Component. For
example, (i) funding from the EU ($US1.4 million) and AfDB ($US0.8 million) for plantation development


                                                     - 15 -

never materialized. This led to a gradual erosion of the plantation sub-component of the project; (ii) The
late start-up (April, 2000) of the Forest Sector Development Project Phase II (FSDP II) supported by
DFID, which provided funds to the Project, resulted in the implementation delay of some critical activities.
These included the preparation of management plans for the twelve priority reserves and the analysis of the
costs and benefits of six of those plans; and (iii) the late start-up of the Royal Netherlands Government
(RNG) funded Fire Management and Wildlife Institutional and Human Resource Reforms sub-component
significantly affected the implementation progress of the Wildlife Component.

53.     Elections: The elections in December 2000 and change of Government in January 2001 had the
effect of delaying some portions of the project. This is because with the new government came changes in
personnel at the senior managerial levels including Ministers and their Deputies, Executive Directors, the
FC Board and its Chief Executive. While this did not affect the quality of implementation, it contributed to
a slower rate of implementation of project activities and reforms. For example, the late appointment of the
members on the Forestry Commission Board and thus their delay in granting the establishment of GSBAs
and PPA, adversely affected the biodiversity component.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
54.     Counterpart Funding: The GoG consistently failed to provide counterpart funding on time and in
the amounts estimated by the project. Of the total US$2.0 million budgeted for GoG, only US$0.66 million
was released by the Ministry of Finance. By February 2000, GoG had only provided 10% of the
counterpart funding. At the beginning, this had little effect because the rate of implementation was very
low. However, later, the slow release of counterpart funds had a substantial impact on (i) procurement of
goods and equipment; (ii) civil works. The slow and untimely release of funds affected the disbursement of
IDA and GEF funds.

55.     Parliamentary Processes: It took a long time to get Cabinet and Parliament to ratify and approve
policy and institutional reforms. This resulted in the initial effectiveness delay and subsequent slippages
during implementation because many of the initial project activities hinged on the approval of legislative
reforms.

56.     Slow Delivery of Timber Utilization Concessions (TUCs): The slow pace at which GoG is
implementing recommendations on the full-scale introduction of market-based competitive bidding and
timber auctioning affected some businesses. Although there was an effort made to avoid crippling local
wood-industries by allowing them to obtain an interim timber utilization permit (TUP) while waiting for
TUCs, some companies may have fallen through the cracks. The ICR mission found that in at least one
case, this policy had adversely affected the private sector. A business owner indicated since his timber
contract was withdrawn, he had not been able to obtain a TUP license and therefore was in the process of
loosing his business. At the project close, the first batch of TUCs had still not been awarded and the lack
of government expediency in this regard may ultimately alienate the private sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
57.     Donor Coordination: The MLF was responsible for ensuring that there was adequate coordination
between the various donors that would contribute to the Project. At preparation, the donors participated in
missions and were present and committed. However, once implementation started, MLF failed to provide
for adequate coordination with concurrent donor programs that were to support the Project. In addition,
by project close, it was extremely difficult to get financial figures for donor contributions, largely because
some donors had their own systems and MLF failed to obtain any financial records of what donors had
contributed in support of the Project.




                                                     - 16 -

58.      Monitoring and Evaluation: The M&E portion of the project was very weak and this is attributed
to both the Borrower and the Bank. The PAD indicated that it would be undertaken by the Project Planning
and Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of the MLF. There were a myriad of problems
related to M&E in this project: (i) Baseline studies were not done (matrix of indicators and levels of
monitoring); (ii) There was no M&E system in place at appraisal; (iii) Six desk officers were assigned to
cover M&E and although they had an adequate technical background, they needed hands-on training in
M&E and an effective leader to provide technical and administrative guidance. In addition, the officers
operated on an ad-hoc basis with weak links to project implementing agencies; (iv) The PPMED was under
the impression that what was in the project implementation manual (PIM) was sufficient i.e., technical
workplans and setting up an M& E system in the field. Following the MTR mission, guidelines were given
to clarify PPMED's role and recommend how baseline data could be obtained to provide benchmarks for
evaluation. However, this was not done and thus monitoring and evaluation was limited to field visits by
Desk Officers of the PPMED on an ad-hoc bases and the use of quarterly reports submitted periodically by
the various component Team Leaders.

59.      Project Management: Human capacity at the MLF was considerably weak during project
implementation to the point where it was becoming increasingly difficult for MLF to effectively manage the
requirements of the NRMP project. Unsatisfactory management performance in the first two years was
exacerbated by delayed appointments of management staff. Furthermore, the MLF lacked clear lines of
responsibility and accountability, especially as regards to the SRMP. Effective implementation of a
complex project requires highly motivated managers able to devote 100% of their time to the project. The
Borrower delayed resolving this issue and only after the MTR were the required adjustments made (by
filling two key positions - a new Technical Director for Forestry and a Director for Policy and Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation). With these appointments, project management improved substantially.

5.4 Costs and financing:
60.       As of June 30, 2003, IDA's total contribution to the project totalled US$8.77 million compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$9.3 million and the reallocated amount of $8.97. The difference of $324,413
between the original allocation and the approved reallocation was a result of exchange differences between
the XDR and the US$ during the life of the project. Government contributions amounted to US$0.66
million compared to an estimated US$2.2 million at appraisal. The closing date for the credit was extended
twice. The first extension was for one year to June 30th, 2002 and the second extension was for one year to
June 30, 2003. During the project's life, the donor funding came from from DFID and DANIDA. DIFD has
disbursed US$11.7 million on their FSDP II project thus far, components of which were in support of the
Project, and DANIDA has disbursed US$1.55 million for the Traditional Energy Project which was to
support the Project. The precise amounts that actually supported Project implementation from DIFD are
yet to be disclosed since DIFD managed its own funding.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
61.      The sustainability rating for the project is likely as the Project had a precise developmental
objective, as well as a set of outputs that can be assessed irrespective of subsequent phases i.e., as a
stand-alone. Thus, an examination of the outputs and developmental objective of this project (legislative,
policy, institutional, collaborative mechanisms) and whether or not these can be sustained, and the
relevance of the institutions and laws created, led to the "likely" rating.

a) Legislation and Policy




                                                     - 17 -

l The forestry legislation that was put in place and their effects (increased fees, improved royalty and
    stumpage collection rates and increased revenues in the sector) are sustainable because project closure
    is not likely to reverse the legislation, nor are collection rates likely to drop given the remarkable
    in-flow of funds to the sector. The legislation is therefore very relevant to the sector;
l Legislative and policy changes in natural resources management have created a transparent
    log-tracking system and a transparent permit system that are sustainable;
l The DFID supported Forest Sector Development Project (FSDP-2), which closes in 2005, is also
    providing support in the areas of policy, institutional and legislative reforms as well as other areas.

b) New Institutions

l Institutionally, the foundation has been laid for a longer-term sustainability of natural resource
    management in terms of capacity building at the FC. The FC reorganization has been successful and it
    has been able to assume many of its responsibilities. Most importantly, the FC is financially viable,
    indicating that even without support from subsequent APLs, the FC can continue to monitor and play a
    role in natural resource management in Ghana.
l The SRMC is also financially sustainable given that all staff costs come directly from the line
    Ministries which, after project closure, have continued with their support. The fact that the Ministries
    are still supporting the SRMC is a good indicator that it will be financially sustainable in the longer
    term. In addition, the SRMC is still a viable institution and provides support to other projects in the
    Northern part of Ghana. For example, the ongoing US$7.6 million GEF-funded Northern Savanna
    Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP) utilizes the existing structures and systems of the SRMC
    to provide support to pilot communities including those identified under the former Savanna Resources
    Management Project (SRMP).

c) Community Collaborative Plans and Investments

l Collaborative resource management plans and investments that have been so far supported by the
    Project will be continued under the Community Based Resource Management Project, which is
    presently under preparation, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of the processes, structures and
    investments that have already been made under the Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
62.     Following consultations between the Bank and the Government of Ghana, it was agreed to not
support a second phase of the program, but instead focus on other more targeted instruments. The Bank
and the Government of Ghana continue to consider NRM a priority area and are therefore interested in
using ESWs, community-based rural development initiatives, perhaps the PRSC and other types of projects
to support Government's effort in ensuring sustainable management of the country's natural resources.
Steps have been taken to ensure that the community collaborative natural resources management aspects of
the Project will be taken on by another operation, the pipeline Ghana Community-Based Rural
Development Project (CBRDP).

63.     In addition, the institutions created by the Project will be maintained in the longer-term. The FC is
now a financially viable institution with an approved mandate. The SRMC is comprised of staff funded by
the Ministries. This funding has continued with a recent allotment of 150 million cedis from the Ministries.
SRMC activities are currently being supported through the GEF Northern Savannah Biodiversity
Conservation Project which has a budget of US$7.6 million to support biodiversity conservation in 3
northern regions.




                                                     - 18 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
64.     The Bank's performance from identification to appraisal was unsatisfactory overall.            Project
preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists provided the technical skill mix
necessary to address concerns. In addition, donor agencies that were to support the project came on the
appraisal mission and met regularly with Bank staff. The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of
staff weeks and dollar amount to ensure quality preparation and appraisal work.             The project was
consistent with the CAS and Government priorities in the sector at the time and was consistent with the
Bank's environmental protection and safeguard strategies. It incorporated lessons from previous projects
by building in the institutional strengthening objectives lacking in earlier projects. The lower ratings are
due to the lack of oversight on the Bank's part to signal the risks associated with the complex project design
and to take appropriate corrective measures. In addition it failed to properly assess the implementing
agency's capacity to coordinate the different project activities and donors. These issues led to serious
implementation delays of the Project.

7.2 Supervision:
65. Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. On one hand, project supervision was intensive, with a
mission at least every 6 months throughout the life of the project. Clear and detailed PSR and Aide
Memoires attest to the detail-oriented missions and the superior quality of recommendations for each
component and sub-component. The supervision teams also included the required expertise and local staff
who continually monitored project activities. The latter was relatively easy since the TTL was in the field.
Supervision, particularly at the Mid Term Review (MTR), helped turn the project around. For example, the
supervision missions were responsible for identifying human capacity and morale problems within the MLF
and for recommending that MLF begin to own some of the project administrative responsibilities. The
mission also advised the borrower to formally request extension dates when it looked like it was impossible
to attain the triggers for closing Phase I and initiating Phase II of the project. The supervision missions
were also important in ensuring that most triggers for Phase II. However, supervision could have been
better to help project staff with ensuring better donor coordination and, more importantly, supervision
failed to correctly ensure the follow through of M&E recommendations provided at the MTR. As a result,
the M&E of the project was very weak.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
66. Overall, the Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the ratings for lending and
supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
67. The Borrower's performance at preparation was satisfactory. The project was developed by the
Government with the active participation of implementing agencies. There was adequate representation
from Ministry of Lands and Forestry, the Forestry Commission and Ministry of Finance.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
68. Government implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. As indicated earlier in the ICR, the
government failed to release counter-part funding, resulting in significant delays in civil works and
procurement of goods. Government's performance only slightly improved over the life of the project and
during the last year of the project, MLF had to secure funding from other sources to match donor funds,
thus enabling the project to meet some of its objectives.




                                                     - 19 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
69. The Implementing Agency performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory due to problems that
significantly impacted implementation. For example, human capacity at the MLF was considerably weak
during project implementation to the point where it was becoming increasingly difficult for MLF to
effectively manage the requirements of the NRMP project. Unsatisfactory management performance in the
first two years was exacerbated by delayed appointments of management staff. The Borrower delayed
resolving this issue and only well after the MTR were the required adjustments made (by filling two key
positions - a new Technical Director for Forestry and a Director for Policy and Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation). Other significant problems included weak donor coordination and MLF's inaction in carrying
out the recommendations by the MTR on how to improve the M&E of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
70. Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Performance at preparation was satisfactory,
however, this declined significantly during implementation. Delays in the promulgation of laws
considerably slowed down project implementation and were responsible for the one year effectiveness delay
and subsequent slippages during implementation since many of the project activities hinged on the approval
of legislative reforms. In addition, Government of Ghana did not fulfill its financial obligations to the
project (see Annex 2), resulting in significant delays in civil works and procurement of goods and
equipment. Counterpart funding throughout the life of the project was irregular and did not match the
requested amount.

8. Lessons Learned

71. Summarized below are important lessons learned.

l Co-financing: Joint financing has been shown to unify the funds and improve coordination to produce
     a beneficial synergy of effects. In contrast, the parralel financing under this project led to a
     fragmentation of the project authority, disjointed implementation and a funding crisis that almost
     derailed the project. A lesson learnt is that to achieve the benefits of a partnership with donors, it is
     essential that joint financing be sought. Other mechanisms of funding should be explored that ensure
     that funds come in simultaneously and well before implementation e.g., basket funding.

l Overly Ambitious Project Designs as a stumbling block to implementation: The project design
     included too many components, sub-components and activities to be carried out in a two year
     time-frame. The Ministry of Lands and Forestry did not have the capacity to fully internalize all project
     activities. A lesson learnt is that the project design should avoid being unneccessarily complex and
     must be tailored to the skills and institutional short and medium term implementation capacities of the
     implementing agency. For an agency with lower capacity, the design should focus on fewer, core
     project activities.

l Addressing Community Needs in Natural Resource Management Projects: In Natural Resource
     Management projects, there can be a tendency to focus on implementing natural resources management
     measures i.e., protection of forests, watersheds, etc without sufficiently addressing the needs of the
     community. This project responded well to communities articulated needs. A lesson learnt is that it is
     important to ensure that the natural resource goals of the project are well integrated into the wider
     developmental needs of the community such as access to water, energy and food requirements.

l Proper Assessment of Government Commitment to Reform: In this project, GoG's level of financial
     commitment to the project was low and therefore the project suffered from inadequate and untimely



                                                       - 20 -

    release of funds. The key lesson here is that there is a need to make a determination, during
    preparation and the early stages of appraisal, about the level of Government commitment to the project.
    If it is perceived to be lacking, there is a need to engage in discussions with the government, at a higher
    level, to determine where the problem lies. In some cases, this may be due to a financial crisis in the
    government or changing priorities in the government's agenda or perhaps even a failure to engage the
    appropriate Ministers. Once the exact problem is determined, there are many ways to address it
    including scaling down the project, reshaping it to address particular priorities,etc. However, early
    diagnosis is important to ensure that this does not adversely affect the project.

l Monitoring and Evaluation: This project fell short in the area of monitoring and evaluation and,
    particularly in a longer-term APL, M&E needs to be very effective.               Lessons learnt are that
    monitoring and evaluation needs and capacities should be assessed in the first two or three supervision
    missions to determine whether the team is correctly setting up the M&E system. Where M&E
    experience is lacking, the mission should make a concerted effort to ensure that capacity building issues
    are addressed by the implementing agency.          For projects with a long time line such as NRMP, the
    project should consider establishing a separate M&E unit to increase effectiveness.

l Legislation as a Requisite for Implementation: Legislative procedures and creation of by-laws is a
    slow process that could confound the project if these are a necessary first step for core implementation.
    A lesson learnt is that in some case, legislation should be attained prior to effectiveness to ensure that
    this process is completed quickly.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
72.      The ICR has been distributed to the borrowers but there is no comment.

(b) Cofinanciers:
73.      The only comment received was from DFID. DFID was mainly involved in the High Forest
Component of the project. Their comments are summarized below:

l According to DFID, this project achieved a lot and its sustainability was likely. They indicated that
    there was strong evidence of GoGs commitment to the reforms accross government from the Presidency
    and Parliament as well as sector institutions: revenue distribution, fee schedules, transparency of
    resource allocation, commitment to customer service orientation, a re-organised and autonomous FC, to
    name a few, who will carry forward with or without external support.
l DFID also commented that the Government of Ghana and the Natural Resource Sector had achieved
    far more, in terms of sector reform, than many other countries and certainly than in other civil service
    reform programmes in Ghana.
l DFID indicated that the design of the NRMP although ambitious, was driven strongly by the GoG, in
    particular by a Minister and Technical Director who wanted to push for a strong program, but who
    were ousted before their impact could be felt on the project. Without, strong leaders, the ambitious
    program was perhaps challenging for those who replaced them. However, they felt that the design was
    courageous, although risky.
l DFID thought that the project should be rated satisfactory because it achieved the developmental
    objective of the first phase, despite the longer period of time taken to implement the program. They
    indicate that implementation delays should not be used as an indicator of poor performance because
    they eventually obtained the expected results.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


                                                       - 21 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Enactment and promulgation of legislation for 100% outstanding royalties to be collected.       FC established with four new departments,
improved forest management, including              100% stumpage fees to be collected.          revenue collection rates have improved from
establishment of Ghana Forest Service and                                                       25% to 95%. Stumpage collection increased
improved revenue collection under an                                                            from 45% to 95%. Legislation enacted
equitable distribution to local communities.                                                    includes the Forestry Planation Fund Act
                                                                                                (2000), The Customs and Excise Duties
                                                                                                Amendment Act, 2000; The Forest Protection
                                                                                                Amendment Act, 2002 and Amendments to
                                                                                                the Timber Resources Management Act
                                                                                                (1997) and the Timber Resources
                                                                                                Management Regulations (1998)
Establish the policy and legal framework and 75% drafting work completed, 1 national            National Action Plan to Combat
technical capacity for sustainable                 workshop completed (February, 2003)          Desertification document completed and
management of woodlands and land                                                                endorsed -1 national workshop completed, 6
resources within the savanna zone.                                                              other workshops completed

Improve the institutional capacity for             <10% of rehabilitation work at Mole NP       Adoption and implementation of Institutional
management of Parks, Reserves and                  completed                                    Restructuring Plan for Ghana Wildlife
off-reserve wildlife resources and establish a                                                  Department including recruitment and
framework for community participation in                                                        redeployment of staff not complete.
wildlife resource management.
                                                   90% of selected GSBAs and PPAs               Contracts were awarded for the survey,
To establish effective systems ofor the            demarcated. 1 management plan (Atewa         demarcation and pillaring of 22 of 30
protection of globally significant biodiversity in GSBA) formulated                             reserves and work has been completed for
all tropical forest biomes in Ghana                                                             17 of them. Thus, 77% of GSBAs have been
                                                                                                demarcated though not gazetted. There has
                                                                                                been no demarcation of PPAs.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Ghana Forest Service (Forestry Commission) All managerial positions to be filled.               All managerial positions filled - june 2001
established and operational including
recruitment of new staff and redeployment of
surplus staff.
New forest policy and regulations adopted          100% collection rate for outstanding royalty Royalty rates increased from 25% to 95%.
including an increase in the rate of collection fees to be collected and 100% stumpage          Stumpage fee collection increased from 45%
of outstanding royalties to greater than 90%. fees to be collected                              to 97%
National Forestry Plan revised and published. Inventory to be completed by 6/2002. Plan to National Forestry Plan Preparatory work still
                                                   be published by end December 2002.           on-going with the Resource Management
                                                                                                Support Center taking a lead role
Economic options study for log export policy                                                    Log Export ban study completed
completed.
Twelve priority reserve management plans           12 final management plans completed.         12 final management plans completed
prepared and analysis of cost/benefits                                                          However, cost benefit analysis not completed
analysis completed for six reserves.
Savannah Resource Management Center                12 residential accomodation for staff        SRMC established and staffed with operating
(SRMC) established and staffed and                 completed                                    modalities. 12 residential accomodation
operating modalities developed.                                                                 completed for staff
Six community-based pilots for woodland            12 management plans for 12 pilot             12 management plans for 12 pilot
reserve management identified and planned. communities completed.                               communities completed.
Surveys and planning completed for six                                                          Surveys and planning for 6 watersheds (off
priority off-reserve watersheds.                                                                reserve) completed
National Action Program to Combat                  75% drafting work completed, 1 national      National Action Plan adopted and published.
Desertification discussed, agreed and              workshop completed (Feb, 2003).
endorsed by regional and district




                                                                     - 23 -

administrations in the three northern regions.
Wildlife Department restructuring completed, 100% of rehabilitation work at Mole NP    Wildlife department restructuring not
new staff recruited and training program      completed                                complete - recruitment still occurring. Wildlife
initiated and under implementation including                                           education resources facility not operational.
redeployment of personnel to support district                                          Rehabilitation work at Mole NP not yet
and community-level wildlife resource                                                  complete and still ongoing in other areas.
management


Management plans revised and updated for      8 of 20 managment plans completed        Plans completed
all National Parks and Zoological Gardens
and proposed infrastructure developments
prioritized and costed
NGO-implemented extension program for         Blank in PSR                             Not done
conservation education and
community-based wildlife management
defined, costed and ready for implementation.
Five-year Strategy Plan and the human         100% training in the HRD plan executed.  70% of the Human resources plan executed
resources development plan for the                                                     for the EPA
Environmental Protection Agency are
developed and adopted.
Regional and District level EIS capacity is                                            EIS capacity developed and geo-spatial
developed and a national geo-spatial                                                   information system developed
information framework is developed.
GEF- Baseline studies to identify, confirm    All GSBAs to be demarcated. 5 management Baseline studies completed, 77% of area
and document Globally Significant             plans to be approved                     demarcated.
Biodiversity Areas (GSBAs) completed and
25% of areas demarcated.
GEF-Provenance protection areas within                                                 Not yet completed
production forest reserves identified and
demarcated
Legislative basis for providing permanent                                              Not yet enacted
protection to GSBAs enacted.
Scope and operating modalities for an                                                  Delayed-Not yet done.
alternative livelihood investment program
agreed with communities, government and
GEF

1End of project




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
High Forest Resource Management Component (IDA)              2.73            2.73             100
Savannah Resource Management Component (IDA)                 2.23            2.18            97.7
Wildlife Resource Management Component (IDA)                 1.28            1.26            98.4
Environmental Managment Coordination (IDA)                   0.88            0.80            90.9
Biodiversity Component (GEF)                                 2.10            1.80            85.7
African Development Bank                                     1.03            0.00
DANIDA (Savannah Component)                                  1.29            1.55
European Union                                               1.29            0.00
DFID (High Forest Management Component)                      8.90          11.70              131
WFP                                                          0.51            0.00
Government                                                   2.20            0.53            25.2
NEDA (Wildlife Component and Institutional                   1.79            0.00
Strengthening)

Total Baseline Cost                                         26.23          22.55
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.30
 Price Contingencies                                         0.80
                        Total Project Costs                 29.33          22.55
                  Total Financing Required                  29.33          22.55


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.97         0.00         1.00          1.97
                                  (0.00)           (0.90)      (0.00)         (0.85)       (1.75)
2. Goods                          1.76              0.30         0.00         2.75          4.81
                                  (1.76)           (0.26)      (0.00)         (0.96)       (2.98)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.87         5.30          7.17
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.87)         (2.18)       (4.05)
4. Inc. Operating Costs           0.00              1.30         3.18         3.97          8.45
                                  (0.00)           (1.20)      (3.10)         (1.62)       (5.92)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00              0.00         0.65         0.00          0.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.65)         (0.00)       (0.65)
6. GEF Investment Fund            0.00              0.00         0.00         2.65          2.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (2.65)       (2.65)
   Total                          1.76              2.57         5.70         15.67        25.70
                                  (1.76)           (2.36)      (5.62)         (8.26)      (18.00)




                                                - 25 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00                                 0.00                               0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.97)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.97)
   2. Goods                                                                      0.00                               0.00
                                           (1.88)             (0.49)            (0.00)              ()             (2.36)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00                                                 0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.93)            (0.12)           (1.05)
   4. Inc. Operating Costs                  0.00                                                                    0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (2.20)           (3.20)
   5. PPF Refinancing                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. GEF Investment Fund                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (1.88)             (1.46)            (1.93)            (2.32)           (7.58)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
High Forest Resource            2.73         1.20         8.70        2.72         0.13      11.70       99.6      10.8    134.5
Management Component
Savanna Resource                2.23         0.30         1.50        2.18         0.17       1.55       97.8      56.7    103.3
Management
Wildlife Resource               1.28         0.30         1.30        1.26         0.09                  98.4      30.0      0.0
Management
Environmental                   0.88         0.20         0.60        0.80         0.01                  90.9      5.0       0.0
Management Coordination
Biodiversity Component          2.10         0.20         0.00                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
(GEF) (Data is incomplete
since component has not
ended yet)




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Natural Resource Management Programme [NRMP] was designed by the Government of Ghana in
collaboration with its Development Partners to protect, rehabilitate and sustainably manage national land,
forest and wildlife resources through collaborative management and to sustainably increase the income of
rural communities who own these resources.

There were seven components under NRMP 1 but those that lent themselves to some level of economic
evaluation were 1) High forest resource management; 2) High forest biodiversity conservation; 3) Savanna
resource management and 4) Wildlife resource management.

High Forest Resource Management

Under the High forest resource management component a total incremental revenue to resource owners and
the Forestry Department from 1999 to 2003 was 81.3 billion with 32.5 billion (40%) and 48.8 (60%)
billion going to owners and Forestry Department respectively.

The introduction of "Modified Taungya System" guaranteed greater security of tenure for farmers and
generated incremental benefits of 600,000 to each farmer per hectare per annum. This was in respect of
labour paid for the maintenance of plantations. In addition the community was allowed to inter-crop with
food crops, which they harvested for use by themselves and/or sold to earn some income. The present worth
of incremental revenue from these crops has been computed to be about 149 billion.

High Forest Biodiversity Conservation

The global environmental objective of Biodiversity Conservation Component of NRMP is to increase the
ecological security of globally significant biological resources, especially within threatened tropical moist
forest ecosystems.

The BC component of NRMP 1 did not lend itself to economic evaluation since no monetary value could be
placed on species and/or ecosystem. However, some qualitative achievements were achieved and these
included 1) a total of thirty (30) forest reserves had been identified and excluded from timber harvesting on
the basis of their high significance as biodiversity  rich areas; 2) Contracts for the survey, demarcation
and pillaring of seventeen (17) forest reserves as GSBAs (Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas) had
been completed, while work was on-going on the remaining five; 3) Socio- economic surveys had been
conducted for forest community living close to twenty-two (22) of the GSBAs.


Savanna Resource Management

The main economic benefits of the Savanna component were expected to be increased production of wood
fuels, and crop production. Woodfuels are the main sources of energy in the savanna regions.

The incremental production of woodfuel and the corresponding incremental revenue generated from the
woodland on-reserves and outside the reserves as well as community woodlots (plantations) as a direct
result of the implementation of this component were calculated. For the natural forest, 90,000 ha on



                                                     - 27 -

-reserved and 3,600 from outside reserve were reserved for used for woodfuel production. If we project that
this entire area will eventually be used for fuelwood production, from the total of 93,600 ha, there will be
an incremental revenue of 5.2 billion annually.

With respect to the trees planted under this phase of the project, a total of 75 ha were cultivated which
would generate incremental revenue of 3.43 million per annum starting from 2005.

Regarding crop production, 180 ha of soya bean, 25 ha cowpea and 200 ha of maize were cultivated. The
total incremental revenue was calculated to be 630 million per year starting from the year 2002. A total
of about 525 farmers benefited from the crop production aspect of the project.

Wildlife Resource Management

From an economic and revenue generating perspective, two outputs were expected from the
implementation of this component: 1) wildlife viewing and nature experiences and 2) bush meat production.

With respect to wildlife viewing and nature experiences, far-reaching actions were implemented in some of
the resource locations. The activities implemented included 1) opening up of visitors centres as tourist
attractions; 2) revenue sharing arrangement among the communities, Wildlife Division and the District
Assembly; 3) Improvement in facilities at tourism sites; 4) Upward revision of wildlife fees of 2000% to
reflect current economic value of resources

The above actions resulted in positive outcome regarding increase in number of visitors and revenues. For
example, at Agumatsa Wildlife Sanctuary in the Volta Region, the number of visitors in the year 2001 was
6,432 and earned a revenue of 6.9million. But in the year 2002, the number of visitors attracted to the
sanctuary almost doubled to 12,319 with a corresponding revenue of about 13.2 million. The same
upward trend was observed at Shai Hills Resource Reserve in Greater Accra. In the year 2001, 1,517
people visited the Reserve and earned 8.2 million. However, in the year 2002, the number of visitors more
than tripled to 4,848 with a corresponding revenue of 28.2 million. At Kakum National Park in the
Central Region, the total number of visitors in the year 2001 and 2002 were 52,285 and 81,719
respectively.    Revenues earned within the same periods were 234.6 million and 366.7 million
respectively.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/3/1997                  4    NAT RES. MGMT (1); AGRIC.         S               S
                                             ECON. (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SP (1); FINAN. MGMT (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/24/1997              13     FORESTRY SPEC. (1);               S               S
                                             ECONOMICS SP (1);
                                             ENVIRON.ECON (1);
                                             NAT.RES. MGMT. SPEC
                                             (1); ENVIRON. MGMT (1);
                                             ECOLOGIST (1); ENVIR.
                                             INFO (1); BIO-RES. ENGIN
                                             (1); AGRIC (1); AGRIC.
                                             ECON (1); FINAN. ANAL
                                             (1); PROC. ANAL (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASS (1);
              5/12/1998                      Delegations                       S               S

 Supervision

              05/24/1999                3    AG. ECONOMIST (1); NAT.           S               S
                                             RESOURCE SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/15/2000                7    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);             S               S
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES SP.
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT FORESTER
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT SPEC (1)
              09/14/2000               33    NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.            S               S
                                             (1); FORESTER (15); AGRIC
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (2); WILDLIFE
                                             (5); ECOLOGIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (2);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LOCAL
                                             GOVERNMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)
              02/01/2002               11    TTL,NAT.RES.MGMT.SPEC.            S               U
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); AGRIC. SPEC. (1); AGRIC.
                                             ECONOMIST (1);



                                              - 29 -

                                           FIN.MGMT.SPEC. (1); PROC.
                                           SPEC. (1); PROC. OFFICER (1);
                                           LEAD FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                           LEAD ENV. SPEC. (1);
                                           FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                           PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
               02/07/2003              1   FORESTER (1)                       S    S


 ICR
               06/16/2003             4     TTL,                              S    S
                                            NAT.RES.MGMT.SPEC
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT.SPEC
                                            (1); PROGRAM ASS (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           115.2                         399.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 68.2                         187.9
  Supervision                          162.8                         487.8
  ICR                                   13.1                           41.9
  Total                                359.3                       1,117.4




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Community Development
Processes
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Borrower's Report
2. Aide Memoire, Mid Term Report
3. Comments from Cofinanciers and Parralel Financiers
5. Maps




                                               - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

                                       NRMP 1 Implementation Completion Report
                                            Ministry of Lands and Forestry
                                                  November 5, 2003


                NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME PHASE 1

          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

1.       PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATING

Various stakeholders rated NRMP Phase I outcome, bank and borrower performances as satisfactory (S),
while programme sustainability had a highly likely (HL) rating with Institutional development impact
having a substantial rating (SU).

Overall, the management and coordination of NRMP 1 is rated satisfactory. The NRMP I was implemented
by five mainline Ministries including the Ministries of Lands and Forestry (MLF) the lead Ministry, Food
and Agriculture, Environment and Science, Energy and Local Government and Rural Development. The
programme was mainly implemented through existing departments and divisions of the collaborating line
ministries. Two special units  Savannah Resource Management Centre and Plantation Development
Centre were created to assist in the implementation of the savanna resource management and plantation
component of the programme respectively.

2.       ASSESSMENT            OF      DEVELOPMENT                 OBJECTIVES     AND       PROGRAMME
         COMPONENTS

2.1      Original Objectives and Revisions

The ten-year goal of the NRMP is to `protect, rehabilitate and sustainably manage national land, forest and
wildlife resources through collaborative management and to sustainably increase the incomes of rural
communities who own these resources'. The primary objective of the NRMP 1 was to promote and
strengthen public and private sector efforts, through improved policy and regulatory frameworks, enhanced
local community involvement in resource management and efficient biodiversity conservation practices.
NRMP is based on a broad sectoral lending approach covering the management, conservation, enhancement
and sustainable utilization of land, forest, and savanna woodlands and wildlife resources.

However, considering the period of implementation for the first phase (two years), the institutional and
policy reforms required, the needed capacities of the implementing agencies and the general economic
conditions, the NRMP 1 objectives were over ambitious. In spite of the broad scope of NRMP I, no
revision was made of the objectives during programme implementation since such an action would have
called for a programme re-design. However, substantial modification were made to programme components
and activities.

2.2      Pre-NRMP Situation

Prior to the implementation of NRMP Phase I, perverse policy and market instruments, poor institutional
capacities, poor governance, lack of transparency and bad resource management practices characterized the
natural resources sector. This situation resulted in over-exploitation and depletion of stocks, destruction of



                                                        - 34 -

ecological systems and loss of biodiversity; high incidence of illegal harvesting and chainsaw operations;
logging and processing inefficiencies and diminished capacity of forestry agencies to regulate the sector.
These factors resulted in the under-valuation and skewed distribution of economic rent of natural resources,
especially timber and other wood products in favour of the industry, with Government and landowning
communities receiving negligible amounts. One of the key losers in this situation is forest-owning
communities, which lacked the necessary empowerment to ensure the equitable flow of benefits to them.

Another major problem was the dependence of the timber industry on a few species resulting in the
"creaming" of the affected species, a reduction in the raw material base and an increase in the cost of
sawmilling operations. Inevitably, creaming and low product recovery rates in the wood industry sub-sector
led to unsustainable levels of timber exploitation.

Legislation, regulations and codes of practice, which were in place to control harvesting and protect the
forestry resource were either inadequate or were not properly enforced, probably because the forestry sector
agencies were weak, under-resourced and suffering from low morale. Management planning and log
movement monitoring were also weak and appeared ineffective in preventing over-cutting.

2.3       Programme Interventions and Components

In order to address the above sectoral issues, NRMP Phase I interventions sought to alter the incentive
structures operating in the natural resources sector, so that professionals are encouraged to adopt a service
role for communities; industry is encouraged to invest in more efficient equipment and value adding
processing; private investors are encouraged to engage in plantation development; and communities and
district assemblies are rewarded for pursuing sustainable forest management and conservation principles.

NRMP Phase I was originally divided into five components to facilitate programme implementation,
namely; High forest resource management, High forest biodiversity conservation, Savannah resource
management, Wildlife resource management, and Environmental management coordination. During
programme implementation two additional components; Policy, legislation and institutional reforms and
Programme management and co-ordination were introduced to ensure that the objectives were fully met.

A summary of the objectives, outputs and achievements of the seven programme components are as
follows:

2.3.1     Policy, Legislation and Institutional Reforms Component (PLIRC)

This component was designed to assist the government to formulate and implement further sectoral policy
and institutional reforms to enhance revenue capture; improve concession allocation procedures and
concession management; and improve sustainability of the forest industry through introduction of new
legislation, conduct log export ban study and streamlining the mandates of forest sector agencies and
strengthening their implementation capacity.

The key activities under this component included the review of the log export suspension; addressing the
issue of transparent and efficient allocation of timber resources; control of over-cutting of timber;
formulation of the basis for the appropriate pricing of timber and other forest-based products;
rationalisation of the timber industry and the adoption of appropriate fiscal and taxation measures;
facilitation of equitable distribution of benefits to forest-owning communities; promotion of rights to
community participation.




                                                    - 35 -

One of the key achievements of this component is the Cabinet and Parliamentary approvals for a number of
policy measures and legislations designed to strengthen the forestry sector institutions and activities. The
policy reform measures are as follows:

        Review of TUC allocation procedures and the introduction of transparent competitive bidding;
        Increased institutional transparency, consistency, and credibility so as to foster responsiveness,
accountability and the rule of law in natural resource management.;
        Introduction of measures to rationalise forest fee and taxation systems and improvement of the
framework for apportioning, recovering and distributing equitably and effectively forest rent (royalties)
between the resource owners, state and the users of the resources;
        Introduction of measures encouraging the building of partnerships for and enhancing recovery of
stumpage fees and taxes;
        Completion of 12 forest reserve management plans and the initiation of the formulation of
management plans for various types of forests, particularly production forests;
        Development of a sustainable institutional framework for the effective participation of key
stakeholders, including traditional authorities, landowners, civil society and rural communities in natural
resource management including decentralization that fosters community-driven choices of natural resource
use and project implementation.

Legislative improvements include the revision of the Forest Plantation Fund (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Act.
623), the removal of duty on the imported timber for processing (Customs & Excise Duties Amendment
Act, 2000), the regulation of investments into the forestry sector (Revision of Ghana Investment Promotion
Centre Act, 1994- Act. 478), increases in the fines and punishment for committal of forest offences (Forest
Protection Amendment Act, 2002) , the introduction of competitive bidding in the allocation of timber and
other forestry resources (Amendment to the Timber Resources Management (Amendment) Act, 2002  Act
617 and the Timber Resources Management (Amendment) Regulations, 2002.

Based on the component achievements in relation to the outputs set out in the programme appraisal
document (PAD), the policy, legislative and institutional reforms component was rated highly satisfactory.

2.3.2    High Forest Resource Management Component (HFRMC)

The high forest resource management component covered five elements, namely; public sector agency
reform, integrated forest reserve management, forest resources management off-reserve, reforms and
incentives for wood harvesting and processing; and plantation development.

Under the programme, various sector agencies were expected to devolve a considerable share of their
responsibilities to local communities. The component project was also designed to assist private sector
producer associations, non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations to improve
timber production and processing operations. These activities were to complement the restructuring of the
Forestry Department into a more efficient service-providing Forest Services Division. The project was also
to build on the five-year experience of the pilot Collaborative Forest Management Initiative in participatory
forest management and conservation education. The project was also to promote the development of
privately owned plantations to supply the wood processing industry as the timber yield from natural forests
continues to decline. Through the creation of a Forest Plantation Development Centre and Forest Plantation
Development Management Fund with appropriate administrative arrangements, the project was to facilitate
land allocation to qualified investors within degraded reserves, support for development of additional
private plantation management companies.



                                                    - 36 -

The significant progress made were as follows:

        The Forest Resources Utilisation and Management (FORUM) sub-component of the High Forest
Resource Management Component (HFRMC) pioneered effective integrated forest management strategies
in the Volta Region. These involved the development of forest reserve management plans, focussing on
appropriate silvicultural interventions, promotion of natural regeneration following exploitation and
incorporation of fire preventive strategies.
        The Forest Sector Development Project II sub-component of the High Forest Resource
Management Component (HFRMC) also supported the piloting of 3-year rolling District plans within five
Forest Districts. This programme supported civil society groups in forest management and improved
community voice in forest management. The sub-component has also commenced the mainstreaming of
collaborative resource management (CRM) in forest resources management in 26 forest districts.
        Equitable resource allocation and benefit flows have been introduced.
        Alternative livelihood activities among forest dependent communities was promoted (e.g.
diversification of non-timber forest products collection, cultivation and processing; modified taungya
system).
        Increased collection and payment rate for forestry fees from 65% at programme inception to the
current collection rate of 95%).
        Revision of benefit sharing arrangements for natural forest timber revenue which yielded about 10
billion ($1.25 million) with incremental benefit to stool landowners per annum.
        Introduction of "Modified Taungya System" which guarantees greater security of tenure for
farmers and also expected to yield additional and incremental benefit of 600,000 (US$80) to each farmer
per hectare per annum. In addition, food crops produced through the system will be solely for the farmers
and is estimated earn them about 1.8 million (US$230) per hectare per year for the first three years only.
        Prompt settlement in terms of payment of rent and stumpage liabilities or indebtedness to the stool
landowners and District Assemblies.

Based on the above achievements in relation to the outputs set out in the programme appraisal document
(PAD), the HFRMC is rated highly satisfactory.

2.3.4    Biodiversity Conservation Component

This component was financed by Global Environment Facility (GEF) to confirm, refine and document
priority areas of global importance for biodiversity conservation to be excluded from future logging. The
purpose of the component was to develop and implement community-based management plans for
protection of the GSBA; finance alternative livelihood schemes for affected communities; and, provide for
ongoing monitoring and evaluation of biological and social indicators of program performance.

Specific project activities under the component included: (i) mapping, delineation and demarcation of
Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas (GSBAs); (ii) establishment of community-based monitoring
program for key indicators; (iii) support for development of community based enterprises with direct
linkage to biodiversity conservation objectives; (iv) integration of biodiversity conservation within the
general Forest Services Division initiative for collaborative management of forest resources both on and off
reserve (v) safeguard genetic diversity and diversity of indigenous species through an ecosystem approach
to management within the high forest zone

The project was also aimed at financing income generating small scale enterprises and investing in
alternative livelihood projects that were to: (i) improve the economic status of the communities living



                                                     - 37 -

around the GSBAs and compensate for income forgone; and (ii) relieve pressure on biological resources.

A summary of the component achievements include:

        Through the intervention of the BC project, over 100 Community Biodiversity Advisory Groups
(CBAGs) have been formed around 20 Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas(GSBAs). The CBAGs
represent a vital structure that serve as rallying points for ensuring voluntary community participation in
project implementation.
        118,000ha of land in 30 forest reserves have been added to global biodiversity management.
Timber harvesting has been excluded from these areas on the merit of their high significance as
biodiversity-rich areas. Eleven (11) of these forest reserves are wholly protected while the remaining 19 are
partially covered. However, legal descriptions of these areas leading to their gazettment as GSBAs is yet to
be completed since it hinges on the full compilation and examination of survey data by the Survey
Department.
        Biodiversity management plans have been written for the Atewa GSBA, which is serving as a
blueprint for the other management plans that are being written for the other GSBAs.
        Baseline socio-economic and eco-tourism studies have been conducted for some critical areas of
biodiversity maintenance. In addition, floral surveys for the GSBAs have been done, while a faunal survey
is underway.
        A reconnaissance survey was carried out to confirm the forest condition of the Southern Dry
Forests (SDF).
        Conservation International (CI) conducted studies on how the Community Investment Fund (CIF)
would be invested and disbursed to beneficiary communities. Modalities for the actual disbursement of the
fund are being drawn up with the help of a consultant.

Based on the above achievements in relation to the outputs set out in the programme appraisal document
(PAD), the biodiversity conservation component is rated satisfactory.

2.3.5    Savannah Resources Management Component (SRMC)

The goal of SRMP was to reduce poverty through the sustainable management and utilization of savannah
natural resources. Unlike most other poverty reduction strategies, the emphasis of the project was on
long-term-sustained poverty reduction based on prudent utilization and effective management of savannah
natural resources.

The project was designed to help improve the operational framework for harvesting and processing of
woodfuels; and strengthen field extension capacity by creation of a multidisciplinary resource management
center to work in collaboration with local communities and the district level environmental and planning
committees to promote integrated management of soil, water, and natural land cover. Pilot activities to
improve woodland management and revenue generation with increased local community involvement were
to be developed, along with initiatives to improve woodfuel marketing and utilization.

The SRMP concentrated on four main sub-components, namely; Institutional development, On and
off-woodland reserve management, Land management off-Reserves and Improving woodfuel marketing and
utilization. Specific activities were to:

(i)      establish and operationalize the proposed Savanna Resource Management Center (SRMC) with
staff from Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF), Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA),



                                                     - 38 -

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Ministry of Energy (MoE);
(ii)      complete an assessment of natural resources of the savanna zone;
(iii)     plan and initiate six community-based resource management pilots on-reserve;
(iv)      complete surveys and planning for pilots in six priority watersheds off-reserve; and
(v)       complete a survey of woodfuel markets/marketing and organize a national woodfuels workshop.

The achievements of the Savannah Resource Management Component were:

         A Savannah Resource Management Centre (SRMC) was set up, which helped developed various
skills and competencies in collaborative resource management, integrated watershed management woodland
management and traditional energy resource management. A Technology and Systems Demonstration
Centre was also set up.
         Integrated 9 District Assemblies into savanna resource management systems through the District
Development Plans and developed collaborative relationships with NGOs and Civil Society.
         Preparation of six Integrated Watershed Management Plans to rehabilitate watersheds
         Establishment of 6,000 ha of woodlands outside the reserves managed by communities with
traditional norms and local bye-laws (dedicated forests).
         Establishment of six pilot community nurseries to produce the needed planting materials for the
establishment of woodlots and rehabilitation of degraded forest reserves.
          Drafted the National Energy Policy and strategy for ensuring sustainable supply and demand of
woodfuels.
         Local fire volunteers from pilot communities were trained and encouraged to manage the bushfires
through fire belt construction, early burning, and fire patrols at the beginning of the dry season. .
         About 1,200 farmers in 12 pilot communities were animated to adopt improved technologies in soil
fertility and reduction of farm erosion including application of composting, soil bonding, crop rotation,
mulching, preservation and development of indigenous and threatened crop varieties and adoption of agro
forestry farming techniques.

Based on the above achievements in relation to the outputs set out in the programme appraisal document
(PAD), the savannah resources management component is rated highly satisfactory.

2.3.5     Wildlife Resource Management Component (WRMC)

The main purpose of the Wildlife component was to reorient and strengthen the management of the Wildlife
Division, develop its capacity to enhance the economic and social sustainability of wildlife management
programmes, and foster closer collaboration between WD and rural communities, the private sector, NGOs
and other partners. The project was also to support the implementation of management and infrastructure
development plans for selected protected areas; support community-based initiatives to develop sustainable
systems for bush meat production; promote private sector and community involvement in wildlife-related
economic activities such as ecotourism, game ranching, and live animal export; and improve public
understanding and support for wildlife conservation and management through public education.

Specific activities envisaged under the component were to (i) restructure the Wildlife Division, recruit new
staff and initiate training programs; (ii) revise all Protected Areas management plans and operationalize
these through the introduction of annual work planning procedures; (iii) prioritize proposed infrastructure
development programs at each site to be implemented in later phases; and (iv) develop extension capacity
within WD to support district- and community-level wildlife conservation and management.




                                                     - 39 -

A summary of the component achievements include:

         Wildlife Division restructuring is ongoing. In addition, a Collaborative Resource Management Unit
(CRMU) has been established since 1999 with support from the European Union (EU) and SNV, a Dutch
NGO.
         A policy on Collaborative/Community-Based Wildlife Management has been developed and a
Community Resource Management Area (CREMA) concept has been developed and is being piloted
         All protected area management plans revised and operationalised through annual work planning
procedures. The Ankasa and Bia Management Plans have been completed under the Protected Area
Development Project with support of the European Union (EU).
         Proposed infrastructure developments at each park prioritized and costed for implementation in
later phases
         Extension capacity within WD to support district and community level wildlife conservation and
management developed.
         Economic development of wildlife resources initiated. New fees on hunting, capturing, export and
keeping of wild animals and their by products have been introduced.
         The WD collaborated with the Forest Services Division (FSD) to give more protection to primates
in Krokosua Forest Reserve. The Wildlife Division also assisted the FSD with the identification of priority
forest reserves and design of strategies to incorporate holistic biodiversity conservation into forest reserve
management plans in a national forest inventory.
         A Wildlife Conservation Education Unit was established at the WD head office
         A protected area management information system (PAMIS) has been established at Ankasa and
Bia Conservation Areas.

Based on the above achievements in relation to the outputs set out in the programme appraisal document
(PAD), the Wildlife Component is rated highly satisfactory.

2.3.6     Environmental Management Coordination Component (EMCC)

The project was to support the Environmental Protection Agency to implement its 5-year strategic plan for
environmental management coordination, which was under preparation (including the human resource
development plan) and to develop sector-specific guidelines in support of project implementation. The
project was to provide support, through the EPA and the MLGRD, the strengthening capacity of the
district-level environmental management committees to enable them to prepare local environmental action
plans and participate in local-level land use planning.

Specific component activities included the (i) implement EPA's revised human resources development
(HRD) Plan, based on the newly developed Strategic Vision; (ii) development of regional and district EIS
and the proposed geo-spatial information framework; and (iii) Preparation of a National Action Program to
Combat Desertification.

There was no change in the programme component during the programme implementation. However, during
the implementation assistance mission a lot of suggestions and amendments to the various components were
made to facilitate implementation.

A summary of the component achievements include:

         The Environmental Information Systems packaging for (10) ten regions of Ghana in addition to (6)



                                                     - 40 -

six pilot districts namely, Jirapa-Lambussie, Wenchi, Akatsi, Ga, Techiman and Wassa West was
completed.
        The National Framework For Geospatial Information Management for Ghana (NAFGIM) was
successfully set up. It is worth noting that in Africa, only NAFGIM (after South Africa) has come so far as
to setting up a national structure for the management and co-ordination of geospatial information.
NAFGIM has also developed National Data Policy Guidelines for the Policy Workgroup to develop
substantive Geospatial Data policies for Ghana.
        Land Use /Land Cover map update has been completed.
        The National Action Programme to combat desertification has been worked on and the final
document has been printed and distributed to ministries, agencies, and other stakeholders i.e. the secretariat
of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD).

2.3.7    Programme Coordination and financial management

This sub-component was created to keep track of programme implementation, effective monitoring and
evaluation, efficient procurement and financial management system to support programme implementation.
A Programme Coordination Committee (PCC) was established, under the chairmanship of the Hon.
Minister of lands and Forestry. The PCC was composed of a representation at Director-level from all
participating ministries (Lands and Forestry [MLF], Food and Agriculture [MOFA], Environment and
Science [MES], Local Government and Rural Development [MLGRD] and Energy [MoE]); Private Sector
(plantation/processing/logging); NGOs; and relevant academic institutions. The PCC meetings were held on
a quarterly basis to review proposed work programmes, monitor implementation performance, and foster
inter-agency and inter ministerial cooperation in natural resource management.

Following issues that arose out of the PCC and in conformity with the Government directive, a Natural
Resource Management and Environmental Consultative Group (NRMECG) was formed with
representation from all the development partners in the natural resource sector. The chairmanship of the
Group rotated between the MLF and MES. The meetings were used to discuss issues relating to programme
implementation and the possibility of common basket funding for natural resource programmes. The issue
of adopting a sector-wide approach to development projects in the natural resource and environment sector
also dominated discussions of the Group. Unfortunately, the meetings of the Consultative Group fizzled out
with time and there were no follow-up of the decisions that were reached.

The overall responsibility for programme management and coordination rested on the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) within MLF, headed by the Director of the PPMED and supported by administration/
procurement and financial staff.

3.0      CONSTRAINTS AND LESSONS LEARNT

The implementation of the NRMP was confronted with number factors which undermined the full
attainment of the programme development objectives. Some of the factors that constrained the programme
implementation were as follows:

(a)      It took much longer than anticipated to get Cabinet and Parliamentary ratify and approve policy
and institutional reforms. This led to frustrations among implementation agencies and loss of donor
confidence in the implementation of the NRMP thus limiting the realization of the development objectives of
the NRMP I on schedule.
(b)      The non-availability of counterpart funding from GOG continued to pose a problem to



                                                     - 41 -

procurement of goods and operating costs.
(c)      The staff capacity of MLFM and its implementing agencies was inadequate thus hampering
effective implementation of the programme as most of the staff had to learn on the job. The situation was
made worse with the constant changes in the programme directors also slowed down progress of the
programme as the new people had to learn on the job.
(d)      Low morale of the staff implementing the programme also affected the programme performance.
The civil servants working on the programme have to spend additional time outside their normal working
hours to push the programme forward. Unfortunately the salary and wages policy of the country did not
allow such people to be remunerated accordingly. This compelled most of them to become very inactive
towards the programme implementation.
(e)      Monitoring of implementation progress was done mostly through field visits by Desk Officers of
the PPMED and the use of quarterly reports submitted periodically by the various component Team
Leaders. The monitoring process was ad-hoc with no feedback. Hence monitoring and evaluation under the
programme became weak and ineffective.
(f)      Financial pledges made by co-financiers to support NRMPI activities had not been fulfilled as at
April 30, 2001 (2 years after programme inception). This delay had compelled the implementing agencies to
cut back on the activities in their respective work plans. The reason being that, while the implementing
agencies estimated to spend over US$ 12.6m on their activities for year 2001 alone, the available financial
resources from IDA and GEF were only US$8.5m.
(g)      The late start-up of FSDPII, supported by DFID had resulted in the delay in the implementation of
some crucial activities of NRMPI. Most notable among them is the preparation of management plans for
twelve priority reserves and the analysis of the costs and benefits of six of these plans. This activity was to
be funded by DFID under the HFRMC and though some work was initiated on the preparation of the plans
by FSD, new set of 12 reserves had recently been identified for the plans to be prepared.
(h)      Similarly, the late start-up of FSDPII and RNG has delayed the implementation of the training
programmes of FSD and WD as the programme had to be halted until a needs assessment was completed.
(i)      Although the DANIDA pledge a support to the traditional resource management component of the
NRMP 1 for ten years, immediately after the initiation phase, (two and half years), they pulled out thus
bring the project to an abrupt end. Without an immediate successor project, all the achievements made
under the project are gradually being eroded. It would be difficult to revive the community interest and win
their support if the activities are not continued immediately.
(j)      The World Food Program was to support the field activities under the SRMP, particularly those
directed at enabling the more deprived target groups, especially women, to pull themselves from their
persistent poverty within a reasonable period of time; and become more self-reliant in providing the
minimum food requirements for their families, either by direct production or by generating income from
other village level service and production activities which would enable them to afford a satisfactory level
of year round nutrition. After several years of waiting the World Food Programme announced their pull out
of the programme. This affected the morale of the rural communities who have been working on the
programme activities in anticipation of the food during the dry season.

After almost four years of implementing the NRMP Phase I, the forestry sector has not witnessed the
needed progress, although more than 90% of the NRMP 1 objectives and activities have been implemented
successfully. The lessons learnt during the implementation of NRMP Phase I is summarised as follows:

        To develop effective policy and legislative frameworks, it is necessary to have the support of civil
society. In addition, without policy change, financial and technical assistance will not yield the full benefits.

        Sustainable resource utilization cannot be achieved only by improving management of the high



                                                     - 42 -

forest. It requires concerted efforts and a common strategy to manage the entire ecosystem including forest
and savannah ecosystems; watersheds and mangroves.
         Actively involving local communities and civil societies in sustainable environmental management
requires a resource-based management strategy. One of the greatest challenges to collaborative forest
management strategy is how to integrate local communities into planning and management and still
maintain a profitable and export-oriented forestry sector.
         Although the civil society is willing to participate in sustainable natural resource management, yet
their capacities are weak to carry out the responsibilities. Genuine stakeholder involvement in management
and sharing of responsibilities require that the capacities of these groups should be developed up a level
where it can be self-sustaining.
         Commercial production of timber (legal and illegal) and woodfuel is an integral part of the survival
strategy of most rural households, especially the rural poor. Therefore to halt the ongoing environmental
degradation in the country, we need to combine poverty alleviation and environmental concerns by investing
in activities that will try, to achieve tangible and immediate poverty alleviation through a more sustainable,
or a less unsustainable, use of the natural resource base.
         Monitoring and evaluation should be considered as part of the implementation process. There
should be a comprehensive programme, which will keep programme administrators informed of the
progress and problems in the implementation process.
         In spite of the measures that have been put in place to strengthen the regulatory mechanisms for
sustainable forest management, both forest and wildlife resources have been subjected to a dramatic rise in
the rates of exploitation, mainly by logging and saw-milling interests, as well as by illegal chainsaw
operators and hunters.
         Providing water resources are essential element for sustainable natural resource management.
         Rural enterprises if assisted can operate small-scale ecotourism around traditional protected areas,
sanctuaries and community dedicated forest to generate sustainable income for the rural people.
         Development partners should first and foremost be agents of change seeking to change people's
perceptions and behaviour. Changing people's perceptions and behaviour requires innovative and creative
solutions. The Intervention Strategy must goes beyond the classical "problem: deforestation  solution:
tree planting" analysis approach and together with communities embark on activities are financially viable,
feasible and profitable. This calls for flexibility during project implementation.
         Donor funding of all projects under a programme should be harmonised. Poor donor coordination
coupled with ineffective monitoring and evaluation undermines the success of any development effort.



4.0       WAY FORWARD

Building on lessons and outputs/outcomes achieved from the first phase, there is the need for a second
phase to consolidate the achievements of the first phase. The second phase objective will be to enhance and
accelerate the development and implementation of participatory and collaborative practices under efficient
partnership arrangements in natural resource policy formulation, management, utilization and conservation
and to increase livelihood and income generating opportunities for rural communities.

The global environment objectives will be to increase the security of globally significant ecological and
biological resources, including forests, woodlands, agricultural systems, water bodies and wetlands as well
as biodiversity and medicinal plants; and reduce global greenhouse gas emissions through targeted carbon
sequestration activities.




                                                       - 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

