Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6484-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
October 21, 1987
Africa - Sahelian Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officMl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 314
CFAF 1 million = US$3,185
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)       =    10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (ml)             35.30 cubic feet (cu.ft.'
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2) -    0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 hectare (ha)            -    2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m. ton.)         2,205 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA     Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (Arabic
Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank for
West African Monetary Union)
BNDS      Banque Nationale de DQveloppement du Senegal (National
Development Bank of Senegal)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Loan
Agency)
CNAPTI    Centre National d'Application et de Perfectionnement aux
Techniques de l'Irrigation (SAED's training center)
CNCAF     Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole - France (National
Agricultural Development Bank of France)
CNCAS     Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Senegal (National
Agricultural Development Bank of Senegal)
CPSP      Caisse de P6rSquation et de Stabilisation des Prix (Price
Stabilization Fund)
CUMA      Cooperative d' Utilisation du Materiel Agricole (Agricultural
Equipment Cooperative)
DCSR      Direction de la Conservation des Sols et du Reboisement
(Department of Soil Conservation and Reforestation)
DPA       Direction de l. Planification et des Amenagements (Department of
Planning and Development Works of SAED)
DPD       Direction de la Producti'on et du Developpement (Department of
Agricultural Development of SAED)



FOR OMCIL Use ONLY
-iii-
FAO/CP    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GIE       Groupements d'intergt economique (farmer groups)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISRA      Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (Agricultural
Research Institute of Senegal)
KfW       Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany Aid
Agency)
KF        Kuwait Fund for Economic Development
MC        Ministare de la Cooperation (French Aid Agencies)
MDR       Ministare de Ddveloppement Rural (Ministry .f Rural Development)
MPN       Ministere de la Protection de la Nature (Ministry of Environment
Protection)
NPA       Nouvelle Politique Agricole (New Agricultural Policy)
OMVS      Organisation de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (Senegal
River Valley Development Organization)
PIV       Perimetre Irrigu4 Villageois (Small Village Irrigation Perimeter)
SAED      Societd d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du
Fleuve S6negal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la FalUmd
(Organization for the Development of the Senegal River Delta and
Senegal and Faleme River Valleys)
SDR       Societe de D4veloppement rural (Rural Development Agency)
SNTI      Soci6td Nationale de Tomate Industrielle (Tomato Production and
Processing Industry)
SOCAS     Societe de Conserves Agricoles du S4ndgal (Tomato Production and
Processing Industry)
SOFISEDIT Soci4te Financiere Sen4galaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme (Financial Development Agency for
Industry and Tourism)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



--
so



- iv -
STAFF APPRtAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ...................             (vi)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM4ARY ............................           (viii)
I *   THE ECONOMY ........................                             1
A.   Economic Structure and Past Developments .......             1
B.   Recent Developments and Adjustment Efforts .....             2
C.   Producer and Export Incentives .................             2
D.   Public Investment Program.  ...................              3
E.   Parastatal Sector  .......................... .             . 3
F.   Long-term Prospects. ............................            4
II.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL ...................              4
III. THE IRRIGATION SUB-SECTOR * ....................... .             7
A.   Physical Resources . .......................... .            7
B.   Prospects for Irrigation Development ...........             7
C.   Bank Strategy ................................... ....... a
D.   Government Policy ............................. .            8
E.   Institutions involved in the Subsector .........             9
F,   Land Use ............. oo*o**...o4  ............            18
IV.  THE PROJECT                             ...........    .         19
A.   Project Background ............................ .           19
B.   Rationale for Bank  Involvement .................           19
C.   Objectives and General Description .............            19
D.   Detailed Features ...................................... .  20
E.   Ecological Impact ...................................... .  26
P.   International Water Rights ....................             26
G.   Project Implementation ........................             26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Senegal in
June 1986. Mission members included Messrs. Jan Pruntel (Engineer/leader),
Jean Boutan (Sr.Economist/Financial Analyst), Alain Seznec (Agriculturist),
and Stephen Berkman (Technical Educator) all from IDA, and Ms. Nicole Glineur
(Consultant). This report was edited by Ms. Michile Moriarty and processed by
Mesdames J4hanne Romain and Guillemette Rohan.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                               Page
V.  PROJECTS COSTS AND FINANCING ........................     27
A.   Costs  Estimates  ............................... .  27
B.  Proposed Financing Plan ........................     27
C.  On-lending and Administration of Fun ds .........    28
D.  Procurement and Use of Consultants .............     29
E.  Disbursements ......... .................... .       29
VI. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....     30
A.  Markets       ........................... .          30
B.  Prices ....................... ................ ..   30
C.  Farm Income Analysis ...........     ...........     31
D.   Cost   recovery  ................................. .  32
E.  Economic Jus tification .........................    32
F.  Benefits and Risks .............................     34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ .....    35
ANNEXES
III-1.   Organization and Disengagement of SAED from its
Production-Related Activities
III-2.   Financial Analysis of SAED
IV-1.   Modernization of Irrigation Infrastructure
IV-2.   Training
IV-3.   Agricultural Credit
IV-4.   Organizational Charts of SAED
IV-5.   Reinforcement of SAED and ISRA
IV-6.   Agricultural Production
IV-7.   Health
IV-8.   Implementation Schedule and Construction Schedule
V-1.   Project Cost Summary
V-2.   Detailed Financing Plan by Components
V-3.   Amounts and Methods of Procurement
V-4.   Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
VI-1.   Project's Incremental Agricultural Production
VI-2.   Economic Justification and Farm Budgets.
MAPS:
IBRD 19099R Senegal Irrigation IV Project
- Boundoum, Thiagar, and Dagana Main Infrastructure
IBRD 20027 Senegal Irrigation IV Project
- Boundoum, Thiagar, and Dagana Schemes
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
October 1987



- vi .
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Ref. No.                     Document                                    Date
1.           Rapport du programme de cooperation
FAO/Banque Mondiale. Composante
Irrigation - Elements de preparation                      May 1985
2.           Projet de rehabilitation des perimetres
d'irrigation de Boundoum et de Dagana.
Avant-projet detaille. Rehabilitation
du Perimbtre de Thiagar                              December 1985
3.           Rapport de revision des comptes de la
SAED pour l'exercice clos le 30 juin 1985                July 1986
4.           Deuxieme lettre de mission de la SAED
et Annexes                                           December 1984
5.           Rapport SINORG sur le desengagement de la
SAED (Proposition pour l'etude de l'4volu-
tion des fonctions de la SAED)                          April 1985
6.           Etude des rizeries de la SAED au Senegal
(CFDT)                                                October 1985
7.           Mission de preparation d'un projet d'experi-
mentation des machines agricoles sur le
fleuve S4n6gal (CEEMAT)                             September 1985
8.           Rapport sur la r6gie de la SAED
(Aviron Viollet)                                     February 1986
9.           Creation de PME dans le departement de Podor
(Dhonte)                                                March 1986
10.           Etude du credit agricole dans le delta du
Senegal - Etude du milieu humain - Evolution         November 1986
des conditions de mise en place de la compo-
sante credit (2 tomes) - Rapport de synthbse
Note complementaire



- vii -
B.  Selected Staff Workint PaDers
1.           Working papers: engineering                             July 1986
2.           AID's disengagement actions                             July 1986
3.           CNAPTI: preparation of training                       August 1980,
component                                         March 1981 and
February 1983



- v1ii -
STAff APP""I$AL REPORT
LRRIGATION IV PROJECT
CPIST AND PROJECT SUMM4ARY
Borrowers           Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:      Socidt6 d'haSnagemnt et  d'Exploitation des Terres  du
Delta du fleuve SEnEgal et des VallUes du Fleuve
S6n6gal et do la FaldmE (SAED) and Caisse Nationals de
Crddit Agricole du SEn6gal (CNCAS)
Credit Amount:      SDR 26.2 million (US$ 33.6  million equivalent)
Termst              Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years.
Flow of Credit      US$33.6 million equivalent would be passed by
Government of Senegal on to SAID (US$23.6 million) as a
grant and to CNCAS (US$10.0 million) as a subsidiary
loan.
Co-lenders:         XfW, BADIA, CCC  and French Ministry of Cooperation.
Proiect
Descriptions        The proposed  project would modernize irrigated  areas
and increase cropping intensity, taking advantage of
the construction of the Diama and Manantali dams that
make water available all year around in the Senegal
River Valley. It would further SAED's disengagement
from its production-related activities, a process begun
under the IDA-financed Irrigation Technical Assistance
Project.  The  Project would  include  tha  following
components:  (a)  modernization  of  three   perimeters
(7,000 ha);  (b)  training  of  SAID's  perbannel  and
farmers; (c) development of a credit network for
farmers; (d) financing, on a decreasing basis, of part
of ShED's operating expenses (incurred in connection
with its production-related activities); (e) provision
of maintenance equipment and spare parts for ShED; (f)
studies on diversifying irrigation development in the
Senegal valley; (g) strengthening of SAED's Planning
and Development, Accounting, and Training Departments;
(h) research, reforestation and health.



- ix -
Proiect Benefits:   The Project would result in the improved operation  and
maintenance of some 7,000 ha of irrigation schemes in
th6  Senegal  river  Delta,  thereby  making   possible
sustained and increased production primarily of rice,
but also of tomato, maize, and sorghum. The project's
institutional   reform   program   would   have   major
non-quantifiable benefits.   SAED's disengagement  from
its production-related activities and the strengthening
of its service and planning activitiei would attract
new farmers, agro-businesses and support services into
the area, and result in more effective training of
farmers in agricultural methods, water use, mechanical
repairs   and   management.   The   creation   of    an
agricultural credit network in the area would allow
farmers and their associations to buy inputs from
private distributors, have their land prepared by
private contractors and their equipment repaired by
private mechanics. As SAED disengages, and goods and
services begin to be traded on a commercial basis, the
business climate for the development of the valley
would be greatly improved.
Project Risks       Major  risks  would  be:  (a)  a   slower-than-expected
transition   to    double-cropping;   (b)    inadequate
maintenance; tc) failure of the credit network,, since
the history of credit in Senegal shows that delinquency
could hamper its operations, thus retarding SAED's
disengagement; (d) failure of Government to maintain a
price   policy   adequate   to   sustain   agricultural
production; and Ce) slowness of the private sector to
take over production-related activities relinquished by
SAED. Protection against those risks has been provided
for in the proposed project: (a) the reinforcement of
SAED's training and extension services would provide
farmers   with    adequate   technical    skills    for
double-cropping; tb) it would be the responsibility of
SAED's  Water  Management   Department   to   set   up
maintenance programs and to see to it that they are
executed; (c) SAED's training expertise, technical
advice and experience with farmers would provide strong
support  to  CNCAS's  credit  network;  (d)  IDA   will
maintain a constant policy dialogue with the Government
through the preparation and supervision of structural
adjustment programs and "lettres de mission"; (e) a
diversification   and   marketing   study   would    be
undertaken, expressly to promote private investment in
the valley.



-x-
Estimated Prolect COsts a/
Local      Foreign      Total
---…-- US$ million ---
Civil works                                  8.47       16.78      25.25
Training                                     0.97        1.31       2.28
Agricultural credit                          9.56         -          9.56
Financial support to SAED                    4.55         -         4.55
Maintenance equipment and spare parts          -         1.05        1.05
Studies                                        -        1.91        1.91
Restructuring of SAED                        0.69        0.44        1.13
Applied and adaptive research                1.52        2.47       3.99
Reforestation                                0.24        0.03       0.27
Health                                       0.09        0.06        0.15
Total Base Costs                          26.09      24.05       50.14
Physical Contingencies                     2.24       2.47        4.71
Price Contingencies                        7.59       3.17       10.76
Total Project Costs b/                35.92       29.69       65.61
Local     Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
Pinancina Plan
Government of Senegal                        5.40         -         5.40
IDA                                         22.48      11.12       33.60
F.R. of Germany (KfW)                        3.35        6.65      10.00
BADEA                                         -          4.70       4.70
Ministere de la Cooperation (France)         0.21        1.09        1.30
CCCE (France)                                4.48        6.13      10.61
Total Financing                        35.92       29.69       65.61
a/ Net of taxes and duties which would be waived
b/ Include US$1 million PPF advance.
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
FY88   FY89    FY09   FY91   FY92   FY98    FY94   FY9S   FY96
…-----                 --…us--ml---II* - --------l- ------------------m------…
Annual       1.7    5.7    0.8    6.8    5.4    4.0    1.7    1.4   0.6
Cumultive    1.7    7.4   14.2   20.5   25.9   29.9   31.6   38.0  88.6
Economic Rate of Returns  lOX
May Nos: IBRD 19099 R and 20027



V  A4



SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
I. THE ECONOMY
A.   Economic Structure and Past Developments
1.01      Three quarters of  Senegal's territory  lies in  the Sahel,  which
suffers from  low rainfall  and  periodic droughts.   The mainstays  of  the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and transhumant cattle-raising
for dompestic consumption, and groundnut cultivation for export. The modern
sector is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over one million
inhabitants,  the  economic  base  of which  consists  of  excellent   po;t
facilities, an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing
tourism industry. With a population of 6.3 million in mid-1984, Senegal's
per capita GNP for 1984 was estimated at US$380.
1.02      In the late 19708,  deteriorating terms of  trade, along with  two
successive years of drought in 1979 and 1980, plunged the economy into an
acute financial crisis from which it is still recovering. The onset of this
crisis led the Government to launch a five-year economic and financial
recovery program, whose main objectives were to stabilize the economy during
the first two years and then to achieve an economic growth rate of 42 per
annum in the following three years. This program was supported by an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of  US$243 million equivalent, approved by  tHe
IFP in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) af US$60
million equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
1.03      The recwvery program consisted  of an economic stabilization  plan
(agreed with and monitored by the IHF), introduction of new producer
incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the  agricultural sector.   The objectives of  this program were
sound but the implementation schedule proved too ambitious. Despite delays
caused by a record low groundnut crop in 1980/81 and by political changes
in early 1981, the Government did achieve significant progress in the
reduction of financial arrears, parapublic sector management and introducing
new industrial  incentive policies.   Results  were disappointing  in  other
areas, however, and especially in the reform of agricultural policies and
institutions and in reduction of the current account and fiscal deficits.
Consequently, the SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million was cancelled on
June 30, 1983.



B.   Recent Developments and Adjustment Efforts
1.04      Since mid-1983, Senegal has  made steady and substantial  progress
toward economic and financial adjustment in the context of successive
programs supported by the Fund and the Bank, as well as by other
multilateral  and   bilateral  assistance,   including  debt   relief.    As
appropriate supply-side and demand management policies have been pursued,
the economy has been progressively liberalized, agricultural and  industrial
production strengthened, the  Government's overall  fiscal deficit  reduced,
public investment improved, public sector reform initiated, and domestic
credit expansion  broughL under  control.  Notwithstanding  the  substantial
progress made  in  the  past  four years,  the  country  still  faces  major
structural and financial difficulties.
1.05      In 1986 the Government decided to pursue the adjustment effort  in
the  context  of   an  overall   policy  framework  for   the  three   years
1986l7-1988/89 whose  basic  objectives were:   (i)  to achieve  an  average
growth of real GDP of about 3.5Z, leading to a small improvement in real per
capita income; (ii) to continue to curb the annual rate of inflation to some
5! towards the latter part of the decade; and (iii) to reduce further the
external current  account deficit.   These objectives  are fully  consistent
with the Government Medium and Long-Term Program of Economic and Financial
Adjustment for the period 1985-92 which was endorsed by donors at the  first
and second meeting of  the Consultative Group for  Senegal in DecemLber  1984
and April  1987.   The  first phase  of  this  program was  supported  by  a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II, Cr. 1656-SE) approved in February 1986
by the Executive Directors.  Details are given in Report No. P-4213-SE dated
January 10, 1986. A new Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL III, Cr. 1802-SE)
in support of the next phase of the Government's economic reform program was
approved by the Board in May 1987 (Report No. P-4498-SE).
C.   Producer and Export Incentives
1.06      The structural adjustment  program addresses the  need to  improve
Senegal's trade balance by adjusting relative prices so as to encourage
production for export and to discourage growth in imports of food, energy
and consumer goods. Under SAL III, the objective is to revise the export
premium system introduced in 1981 with a view to basing it on industrial
value-added in international prices. In July 1986, tariff reductions were
approved  and  will  be  carried  out  in  stages  over  two  years.   Also,
quantitative restrictions on imports were lifted on August 1986, except for
a limited number of items for which the restrictions will be eliminated over
a period  of  two  years.   Between February  1982  and  January  1985,  the
Government doubled the retail price of rice, the main food staple in urban
areas, in order to reflect higher import costs, eliminate consumer subsidies
and to provide a  measure of protection for  domestic rice production.   The
Government is committed to maintaining this nominal rate of protection.
Cereals are marketed mostly through private channels; the official floor
prices for producers were raised by about 10 for the 1984/85 season and



- 3 -
again by around 201 for 1985/86.   There was also a substantial increase  in
the producer price for groundnuts for the last season, in order to maintain
comparability with  prices  offered  on the  parallel  market.   Electricity
tariffs and prices of petroleum products were also increased in 1985 to
eliminate subsidies and to reduce the operating deficits of the Soci4to
Nationale d'Electricite du Senegal (SENELEC) and the petroleum refinery.
D. Public Investment Program
1.07      The  outlook   for   increased  public   sector   investment   has
deteriorated since the establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the program imposed ceilings on the investment program in order
to reestablish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced
program has become difficult. In the present climate, a careful screening
of new investment projects is particularly needed, together with increased
attention  to   rehabilitation  and   maintenance  needs.    The   necessary
institutional reforms for improving the Government's programming,  budgeting
and monitoring of investment projects have been started under the Structural
Adjustment program  (SAL),  and  the  Government  has  finalized  its  first
three-year rolling investment   program for the  period 1987/88 to  1989/90.
In the meantime, an interim two-year public investment program (1985-86) has
been prepared and reviewed by the Bank. To help define the investment
program for irrigation, guidelines for investments in the Sen0gal valley,
applicable to all lenders, would be prepared in the proposed project (para.
3.05). In view of the difficult public finance situation, the Government's
ability '.o generate public savings to finance its investment program will
remain very constrained during the next few years, and the investment  level
itself will be largely determined by the availability of concessional
foreign aid. Some public enterprises, however, should be able to generate
funds for investment during this period and the share of private investment
is expected to increase as the financial situation begins to improve.
1.08      The first three year rolling  investment plan was reviewed by  the
Bank in mid-x986. Investments in irrigation have been cut back, essentially
limited to modernization (including the proposed project) and further
development of small village perimeters.   The only investment in a  larger,
new perimeter is at Ndierba, which was originally included in the proposed
project but would now be financed separately by the Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD). The Bank's assessment is that the short-term priorities
in irrigation are correct: modernization, more village perimeters, cautious
expansion into large new perimeters.
E.   Parastatal Sector
1.09      Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be a
high priority. The Government has taken some significant steps over the
last year to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-v.able or
inefficient public enterprises.   In the  agricultural sector,  a number  of
agencies are being wound down and about 2,000 staff have been laid off. For



others, a redefinition of  tasks and a reduction  in staff numbers has  been
decided.  The Government has moved to improve the performance of some of the
most important public enterprises, by negotiating multi-year contrats-plans
which set out production and financial objectives for company operations and
spell  out  the  reciprocal  obligations  of  the  Government  and   company
mat.agement.  To date,  the Government has  signed seven contrats-plans,  and
negotiations for several others are well advanced. A comprehensive policy
guideline and action program was adopted by the Government in 1985 and
progress is being supported by an IDA-financed technical assistance project
for parastatal reform.
F.   Long-Term Prospects
1.10      In the  context of  Senegal's structural  adjustment,  agriculture
will remnain a major source of growth and development, aided by the
diversification    of    agricultural    production    (export-based       and
import-substituting) and by stronger linkages between the modern sector  and
the rest of the economy. However, the development of rainfed and irrigated
crop production at reasonable cost faces technical problems that can only be
overcome by transforming rural institutions, giving greater responsibility
to farmers, and by providing adequate pricing, marketing, credit and support
services within budgetary constraints. Key elements of a long-term strategy
for agriculture would include the systematic survey and evaluation of the
country's hydrological resources and the definition of a comprehensive plan
for arresting desertification and resource depletion. The constraints that
will have to be carefully weighed and made the target of positive action are
mainly related to natural resources and technology, institutions and
marketing: (i) the limited natural resource base makes it difficult to
translate an improved policy environment into faster growth, and it is also
difficult to identify high-return projects to be replicated on a scale
sufficient to make an impact on the national economy; (ii) striking the
right balance between the public and private sectors is delicate, and the
transfer of responsibilities from the public sector is not always easy;
(iii) marketing efficiency is related to the world economy, and terms of
trade have declined for such important cash crops as groundnuts, a major
source of rural income and foreign exchange.
II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
2.01      As of May 31, 1987, the  Bank Group had approved 66 operations  in
Senegal for a total of US$787.2   million, consisting of 40 IDA credits,  11
Bank loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, seven IFC operations, two
blends of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds.
Physical execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some
operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the
Government's continuing public finance difficulties.



- 5 -
2.02      Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented,
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and on improvement
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acute financial crisis of the
past several years and the magitude of the structural distortions in the
economy have led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following main objectivess first, to assist the Government with structural
adjustment lending operations, accompanied where appropriate by technical
assistance, in order to improve the production incentive environment and the
efficiency of economic management, and to restore a sound financial basis
for medium-term development efforts; socond, to promote the economy's
long-term growth and development by supporting the structural adjustment
operations through well prepared investments, rehabilitation efforts and
sectoral adjustment operations  'thin a framework  of appropriate  sectoral
policies; third, to improve our knowledge of Senegal's economic, social,
institutional and administrative frameworks so as to tailor better policy
reforms to the country's absorptive capacity; and finally, to help improve
aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting as the focal point for aid
coordination between donors and the Government, at the same time assisting
the latter to strengthen its own planning and aid coordination ability.
2.03      A major  thrust  of this  policy  has been  directed  towards  the
parastatal regional development agencies, and the Government has made
significant efforts over the past two to three years, with financial and
technical assistance from major donors including the Bank, to reduce the
size and improve the efficiency of these institutions, and to involve
farmers in the decision-making processes on the issues of greatest concern
to them.   In the  Senegal River  Valley, the  proposed project would  help
modernize rice perimeters and assist SAED in carrying out its revised
mandate, following the Irrigation Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1632-SE)
(para. 2.07) approved in October 1985 to help restructure the River Valley
Development Agency (SAED) and prepare   for the latter's disengagement  from
production-related activities.   In the rainfed area, work has recently been
initiated on the first of a series of projects that would be designed under
the disengagement policy.
2.04      The first  Bank-financed irrigation  project  in Senegal was  the
Senegal River Polders Proiect (Credit 350-SE), for which an IDA credit of
US$4.5 million was approved in 1972. The Project was located near Dagana
and covers about 3,000 ha. Total project costs amounted to US$12.4 million,
or nearly double the original estimate, largely because of delays in
implementation  due  to  SAEDI's  cumbersome  administrative  and   financial
procedures, the lack of sufficient and timely local funding, and increases
in quantities and prices. Still, the cost of US$4,200 per ha was reasonable
by  West   African  standards.    Irrigation  works   were  implemented   by
contractors.   Lack  of  funds  has  led  to  poor maintenance  and   rapid
deterioration of the perimeters, which now require modernization. The area
is partially  covered  by  the  proposed  project.   The  main  shortcomings
mentioned in this project's Performance Audit Report concern the quality of
engineering design and the supervision of construction, and difficulties in



-6-
obtaining counterpart  funds.   Particular attentior. was,  therefore,  paid
during appraisal of the proposed project to engineering design.
2.05      In 1975,  the Debi-Lampsar  Project (Credit  775-SE) for  which  a
credit of US$20 million was made, aimed at achieving full water control,
instead of partial control as was originally foreseen under the Senegal
River Polders Project, from which the Debi-Lampsar area had been excluded.
Total project cost was estimated at US$35 million and project works began in
1978. The Project received aaditional financial assistance from the Kuwait
Fund, France and the Banque Rationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS).
Irrigation works in a net irrigable area of 3,340 ha were mainly carried out
by contractors and were completed in 1984. Actual project costs were in
line with appraisal estimates: the unit cost for development up to the point
of full water control amounted to about US$10,000 per ha, including the
construction of related facilities. The basic concept of the Debi-Lampsar
project--the sub-division of the perimeter into a number of independeat
irrigation units with a secure water supply, mainly through electrification
of the  pumping  stations, and  the  formation of  individually  responsible
farmers' associations--has been very successful, and would be adopted in the
proposed project.
2.06      The proposed project takes into account the above lessons, and IDA
and Government have  agreed on ways  to continue the  improvement of  SAED's
organization and management (started under the Technical Assistance project
(para. 2.07). Under the proposed project, steps would be taken further to
improve SAED's financial situation, notably by reducing the scope of SAED's
activities.
2.07      The Irrigation  Technical  Assistance Project  (Cr.  1632-SE)  was
approved in 1985. Of total project costs of US$15.1 million, IDA finances
US$4.9 million; additional financing is provided by CCCE/FAC, UNDP and
USAID.  Government's share in financing  the Project is UDS5.9 million.   In
line with Government's policy of reducing the responsibilities of public
enterprises in the agricultural sector, the Project aims at helping SAED to
divest itself of its production-related activities, and to turn these over
to farmers and private enterprises. This would be well under way within the
period of the contrat-plan signed by SAED and the Government, which ended on
June 30, 1987. The Project includes the following components: (a) five
studies to prepare and facilitate SAED's disengagement process; (b) urgent
maintenance works which had been postponed for lack of funds despite safety
concerns; (c) financing of SAED's public service activities; (d) financing
on a decreasing basis, during a transitional period while the disengagement
process is taking place, of those of SAED's operating expenses that deal
with production-related activities.   In addition, funds  are allocated  for
credit to former employees of rural development agencies to help them set up
their own businesses. The Project became effective in May 1986, and SAED
has already improved its organization in compliance with the recommendations
of the steps of the disengagement study (Annexes III-1 and IV-4).



- 7 -
III. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A.   Physical Resources
3.01      Senegal's irrigation  potential compares  favorably with  that  of
most other countries  in the region.   With the help  of many bilateral  and
multilateral institutions, including the Bank Group, some 33,000 ha have
been developed along the Senegal river, of which about 20,000 ha are
large-scale perimeters in the Delta; another 13,000 ha in the middle and
upper Senegal river valley are small village perimeters. Irrigation in the
valley has not been developed faster, however, due to the limited scope for
double-cropping (before construction of the dams), and also to a number of
adverse factors: some are financial, such as the high cost of investment in
infrastructure, while others are institutional or policy-related, such as
high-cost services and poor maintenance on the existing schemes.
3.02      The Diama and Manantali dams are two major recent undertakings  on
the Senegal river. The Diama dam, completed in 1985, is situated near the
mouth of the river and is essentially designed to prevent the intrusion of
salt water. Prior to the completion of Diama, salt intrusion during the low
flow season made the river water too saline for dry-season irrigation.   The
Manantali dam contains a reservoir with a gross capacity of about 11 billion
cubic meters. It is located in Mali on the Bafing, the main tributary of
the Senegal river,  about 800  kms upstream of  its mouth.   With its  large
capacity, Manantali has been designed to serve power, flood control,
irrigation and navigation needs. Once equipped, it will have an average
energy capability of about 800 GWh a year and, with the necessary
complementary investments, an estimated 375,000 ha could be irrigated in the
Senegal valley.   About  two  thirds  of this  irrigation  potential  is  in
Senegal. The Manantali dam is scheduled to come into service in 1988 when
it will create the potential for intensive year-round cropping to replace
the limited seasonal  cropping practiced today.   It will also  be used  for
several years to generate artificial floods, thus prever,ting the sudden loss
of existing flood  recession cultivation  in the  riverain depressions.   An
important SPPF-financed study is being carried out in order to establish
rules of water management for the valley and a tariff system for water
users. It will also help prepare the future development of power in the
valley through the construction of transmission lines. The conclusions of
that study will be taken into account in a Master Plan study for the Left
Bank, financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, which will start
in the next three months.
B.   Prospects for Irrigation Development
3.03      Despite the  dramatic increase  in the  scope for  double-cropping
made possible by the Manantali dam, the prospects for irrigation development
are subject to a number of technical and economic issues.   First,  although
the valley and especially the Delta of the Senegal river are agronomically a



- 8 -
choice area to grow substitutes for the large rice imports required to meet
the population's needs (about 340,000 tons of rice are imported yearly), the
decline in international market prices and the cost structure within Senegal
currently make irrigation investments  at best only marginally   ezonomical.
Until recently the Government's pricing policy favored imports at the
consumer level and failed to motivate producers, despite hefty subsidization
of inputs. In addition, network development was hampered by high costs and
the mediocre planning and implementation capacity of the Rural Development
Agencies (RDA).   Second, low  producer  prices led  to a  poor  maintenance
record for existing investments. The income of farmers (mostly smallholders)
was insufficient and the prospective returns too low. Part of the network
haa thus fallen into disrepair and some perimeters are totally abandoned.
Third, aside from one enclave sugar estate, irrigation development has been
exclusively geared to smallholder famning. This approach was sound so long
as irrigation potential was low and the scope for double-cropping limited.
Once the dams are completed, however, water will be so abundant that for
several decades different forms of irrigation farming can complement, rather
than compete with, each other. Given the high investment cost per ha for
newly irrigated areas and the scarcity of resources, the challenge will be
to mobilize resources from large investors in order to accelerate irrigation
development. The introduction of large investors and the search for new
crops would be covered by the proposed diversification study (para. 4.14).
The Project is part of a series of coordinated steps begun in 1983 in policy
discussions between the Government and donors. These discussions led to the
New Agricultural Policy (NPA), the implementation of which is supported by
SAL II and SAL III and by the Irrigation Technical Assistance project (para.
2.07).
C.   Bank Strategy
3.04      The delay in the preparation of  the Project (para. 4.01) was  due
to the Bank's concern that a number of policy reforms be implemented
beforehand. Goals weres (i) to reduce price and cost distortions, to promote
import substitution, to reduce subsidies and to lessen the disparities
between urban and rural areas, through the liberalization of input prices
and an increase in producer and consumer prices of cereals, mainly rice;
(ii) to focus the RDA in charge of developing the Senegal valley on those
tasks that can only be carried out by a Government agency, and to foster
private sector initiative; (iii) to reduce dependence on food imports; and
(iv) to develop projects based on economic criteria. The Project has been
designed to contribute to these long-term goals.
D.   Government Policy
3.05      The NPA approved by the  Government in April 1984 prescribes  five
major reforms in the agricultural sector, namely: (a) a major reduction in
tue role of the public sector, with increased responsibility given to
farmers and to private sector initiatives; (b) an increase in the quantity
and quality of inputs and services; (c) a realignment of prices and the



- 9 -
progressive elimination of state subsidies in order to improve the overall
viability of the rural sector; (d) the diversification of agriculture,
including  irrigation   development;   and  (e)   increased   attention   to
environmental protection and to sound resource management. Two of the above
reforms  have  an  important  bearing  on  the  irrigation  subsector.   The
reduction of the role of the public sector ((a) above)) implies the
progressive disengagement of irrigation development agencies from production
and marketing-related activities.   The viability of  the rural sector  ((c)
above)) has started to improve with the establishment of a cereal policy
encouraging the production of local cereals (rice, sorghum, millet, maize)
through iDcreased consumer  prices and,  hence, producer  prices.  Steps  in
that direction were taken in January 1985 with a 23X increase in the
consumer price of rice, as advocated by the IMF and the Bank. The proposed
project directly supports the NPA through the restructuring of RDAs (also
recommended in SAL II), since it includes SAED's disengagement from
production-related activities (Annex III-1),, the privatization of services
in the interest of greater efficiency, and further studies for more
diversified irrigation development (para. 4.14). The Project also recognizes
the relationship, implicit in the second "Lettre de missionn (para. 3.09),
between the cost of inputs and the price of paddy guaranteed to farmers in
order to put rice production on a sustainable basis. At the same time, the
consumer price of rice must be maintained at a level compatible with
producer and import prices. In addition, in order to improve the quality of
public sector irrigation investments in the region and the degree of
coordination among co-lenders, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
by March 31, 1989, or by any other date agreeable to IDA, the Government
would publish an investment guide, consistent with the principles of rh6
Government's letter of Development Policy dated April 16, 1987, which is
part of the SAL III Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 1802-SE), for
appraising and implementing new irrigation investment projects in the
Senegal river  region.   Such  guide  would be  prepared  on  the  basis  of
technical, economic, legal and administrative guidelines to be established
as part of the Master Plan study for the Left Bank (para. 3.02).
E.   Institutions Involved in the Subsector
Ministry of Rural Development
3.06      The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) supervises the  operations
of the RDAs, such as SAED. However, MDR's structure and staffing are weak
and ill-adapted to supervising SAED's current operations and project
preparation and implementation. It has, therefore, not played an important
part in guiding SAED's policies, which were instead defined by the
Presidency and the Ministries  of Finance and Planning.   A Bank project  is
currently under preparation to strengthen and reorganize MDR, by reinforcing
MDR's information, policy-making and management systems through various
strategic organizational changes and reallocation of responsibilities;
helping MDR achieve a better coordination with other ministries and
government agencies; and establishing a permanent training and manpower



- 10 -
developr 't system,  as  well as  a more rational  budget  preparation  and
lwSplemen.& ion mechanism.
SAED
3.07      Involvement in Agricultural Production.  The SociOt4 d'Amenagement
et d'Exploitation de la Vallee du Senegal (SAED) was set up ir, 1965 as a
public enterprise to plan and manage irrigation development in the Senegal
delta. It was subsequently made responsible for irrigation development all
along the river valley.   According to its  Statutes, its mandate  includes:
land preparation, construction and maintenance of irrigated perimeters,
input distribution, rice/tomato processing and marketing, and provision of
all agricultural services to the rural population of the area. For many
yea-s, Government set the producer price of paddy below the border price
and, in order to keep farmer incomes at a satisfactory level, directed SAED
to reduce the charges levied on farmers for inputs and services. As long as
the Government was able to subsidize SAED to compensate for the reduced
revenue from charges to farmers, SAED was able to cover the cost of its
operations.  However, this policy provided no incentive for SAED to  improve
the  efficiency  of  its  operations,  nor  did  it  create  a   competitive
environment  in  which  other,   private,  suppliers   of  services   could
participate. Starting in the late 19709, budgetary constraints prevented
the Government from providing the required subsidies, and SAED's  operations
deteriorated.   SAED's  1985/86  financial  deficit  was  CFAF  770  million
(equivalent US$ 2.1 million) compared to total revenues of CFAF 4.7 billion
(equivalent US$ 13.0 million) (para. 3.22).
3.08      Since 1981, the company  has had a  contract with the  Government,
the "Lettre de mission*, which defines the company's objectives and policy
for three-year periods and sets out Government's obligations towards the
company in pursuit of these objectives. Under the first "Lettre de mission"
(covering the period from July 1, 1981 to  Jun- 30, 1984) SAED  implemented
measures aimed at progressively decentralizing its management and giving
more  responsibility   to  farmers:   extension  workers   replaced   formal
supervisors,  new  farmers'  organizations  were  created,  and   management
training and literacy programs were introduced. In 1983 and 1984, the
centralized management of perimeters, rice mills and civil works was
progressively transferred to decentralized operational "d4l4gations" (zones)
in the valley.
3.09      The basic  goal  of  the  second  "Lettre  de  mission"  (July  1,
1984-June 30, 1987), prepared in collaboration with the Bank, was to
gradually  relieve  the  Government  of  the  burden  of  financing   SAED's
production-related deficit and to transform SAED, vhich is now both a  rural
developer and a service organization for farmers, into a public service
company (Annex  111-1),  with  a more  straightforward  function.   Although
SAED's technical  framework, supported  by expatriate  assistance,  provides
satisfactory services to farmers, SAED failed in the past to enlist farmers'
participation in productive activities, since they consider such assistance



- 11 -
from Government to be their rightful due and do not feel motivated to take
full responsibility for their business.   The services to be transferred  to
the private sector are: (i) land preparation; (ii) water pumping for
irrigation; (iii) input distribution; (iv) repair of agricultural equipment;
(v) purchasing and processing paddy; and (vi) marketing rice and other
agricultural products. Credit will be entrusted to a specialized agency.
The public services include: (a) planning and programming of construction of
new perimeters, and of modernization of existing ones; (b) planning and
supervising the construction of major collective facilities and maintaining
them; (c) helping organize village groups and advising them; and (d)
providing  literacy,  technical  and  management  training.   SAED's  public
service activities will, because of their nature, have to be financed by the
Government. As a transitional measure, funds are made available to SAED by
foreign co-lenders under the Irrigation Technical Assistance project (para.
2.07), to pay its suppliers and to cover its deficit on production-related
activities.
3.10      Disengagement from  agricultural  production. Over  the  next  few
years, SAED would, in accordance with the NPA, progressively abandon its
ancillary production activities and attain financial equilibrium by about
1989. In April 1986, SAED proposed a disengagement program with a limited
internal reorganization and a tentative timetable for disengagement from its
production-related  activities.    This   process   was   confirmed   during
negotiations and an agreement was reached on a minimum disengagement program
(Annex III-1), on a minimum personnel reduction and on charging the full
cost of water to farmers benefitting from double cropping. Those agreements
will be included  in the  third "Lettre de  mission", which  will cover  the
period from July  1, 1987  (retroactively) to June  30, 1990.   A draft  was
presented at negotiations but the "Lettre de mission' was not discussed as
such, since consultations  are scheduled  among the Government  and all  the
co-lenders before it is finalized.  Because the draft, as presented, was far
from satisfactory, a group of co-lenders comprising the Bank, CCCE, FED, 1fW
and USAID, agreed to CCCE's proposal to ask a consultant, financed by CCCE,
to help SAED prepare the final draft of the "Lettre de mission'. This work
has now been completed and is expected to be approved by Government in
December 1987.   Fignature  of  the  third  "Lettre  de  mission  I by  the
Government and SAED would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
project,  which  would  continue   to  help  SAED   divest  itself  of   its
production-related activities and concentrate on its role of development in
the Senegal valley.
3.11      The timetable for disengagement  outlined in Annex III-1  provides
that, by mid-1988, SAED would no longer supply inputs and the central
warehouse would be privatized; by mid-1989 it would no longer repair
agricultural equipment, movable pumps and small pumping stations, nor
maintain primary and secondary networks, and the central workshop would be
privatized; by the end of 1989 SAED would no longer be involved in land
preparation and would no longer repair large pumping stations, except for a
small team required for urgent interventions; by same date it would no



- 12 -
longer  provide   agricultural   credit.   Assurances   were   obtained   at
negotiations that SAED would implement the disengagement program contained
in the Third 'Lettre de mission'. All those activities would be taken over
by private entrepreneurs or by farmers' associations, with the exception of
agricultural credit, which would be provided by Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole du S6negal (CNCAS) (para. 3.27).   The rice mills would be  managed
in a strictly autonomous way. The timetable is realistic, as many private
firms have already shown some interest in supplying production-related
services. Because SAED has always accepted payment in kind from farmers for
the supply of goods and services, monetary exchanges have been virtually
non-existent in the Senegal Valley. Farmers have thus neither needed nor
sought other alternatives. This situation has kept the private sector in a
very secondary position in the valley. The introduction of agricultural
credit, supplemented by competition from commercial banks, is expected to
give farmers the means to take advantage of new suppliers of goods and
services.   The consultants who are  helping SAED prepare the third  "Lettre
de mission" (para. 3.10) will also estimate the rhythm by which SAED's
production-related activities would be taken over by the private sector.
3.12      SAED's employees on June 30, 1986,  numbered 981 of which 875  are
contractual, 87 seconded civil servants and 19 expatriate technical advisers
financed by French aid. From June 30, 1986 to June 30, 1987, a total of 35
SAED staff members left SAED or were redeployed. The 1985 consultant's
report on disengagement recommended that SAED's staff be reduced by almost
half over the period of disengagement, which would not go much beyond the
end of 1989. The timetable in the draft "Lettre de mission", however, which
was approved by IDA and by the Government, provides for a reduction of 36 in
1987/88, 65 in 1988/89 and 110 in 1989/90, i.e., 211 during the period of
the third 'Lettre  de mission".   Assurances were  obtained at  negotiations
that SAED would implement the staff reduction plan contained in the third
'Lettre de mission" and would prepare, by June 30, 1988, an estimate of
further staff reduction for the following three-year period.
3.13      Reinforcement of public service activities.   SAED presently lacks
enough competent staff to accomplish its public service tasks. In its
limited internal reorganization of April 1986 (para. 3.10), SAED created a
decentralized water management department responsible for water distribution
and maintenance  of  pumping  stations.   This  was  a  first  step  towards
privatization of the pumping stations located in the perimeters, although
the department will retain responsibility for public services unrelated to
agriculture. In addition, the proposed project would help SAED: (i) to
expand the role of its planning and development works department (DPA) in
development of the valley; (ii) to strengthen its financial department which
lacks competent auditors  and accountants (para.  3.19) and its   Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (MEU) (para. 3.14) to be established to monitor project
implementation and the progress of development in the Senegal valley; and
(iii)  to  improve  its  services  to  farmeru'  associations  and   private
entrepreneurs, for which the demand would grow as a consequence of SAED's
disengagement. To enhance DPA's public service responsibilities, assurances



- 13 -
were obtained at negotiations that the Government would ensure that SAED,
through DPA, undertakes only irrigation projects which are technically,
economically and financially justified, in accordance with the provisions of
the investment guide for the valley (par&. 3.05); and that SAED, upon IDA's
request, would review periodically, through DPA, its investment program with
IDA and would furnish, to this end, any feasibility study prepared for the
carrying out of any irrigation project.
3.14      The  MEU  would  develop  a  management  information  system  with
selected performance indicators to monitor progress and correct deficiencies
in project implementation. It would also process and analyze data collected
in the field in order to monitor the adaptation of new crop techniques.   In
that context, MEU would undertake surveys (of farmers' reactions to new
cropping methods), studies (of farmers' incomes) and closely monitor the
transition to double-cropping and the emergence of the private sector.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that progress reports would be
produced every six months. The results would be used to plan and design the
subsequent phases of the rehabilitation and development program, and to take
corrective measures, should the agricultural development be slower than
expected. Assurances were slso obtained at negotiations that the Government
would monitor MEU's activities under the Project and would cause SAED,
through MEU or otherwise, to provide IDA no later than September 30, 1988,
with  a  report  of   progress  achieved  in   the  implementation  of   the
disengagement plan, and no later than September 30, 1990, with a mid-review
report of progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, with
emphasis on the following areas: strategic and operational planning,
budgeting, accounting, financial and personnel management, cost recovery,
operational efficiency and financial autonomy.
3.15      The   provision   cf   training and extension services   is    the
responsibility  of  SAED''s  Training  division  (CNAPTI)  and   Agricultural
Development and Research Services division (DPD). CNAPTI provides training
and upgrading for all SAED personnel and farmers' association leaders, iiy
particular for training the field literacy instructors and agricultural
advisers who  in  turn  train  and  advise  the  farmers.   CNAPTI  is  also
responsible for the production of training documents and agricultural
information material  for  distribution  to the  farmers.   The  center  can
accommodate up to 40 trainees. DPD provides extension services: those would
be based on training and visit principles, i.e., frequent supervisions with
simple technical messages to the farmers and periodic interventions from
specialists who would disseminate new messages and would ensure that there
is a  satisfactory link   between extension  and research  activities.   The
objective of the related project component would be to strengthen the
services required by SAED's disen3agement, by improving CNAPTI's and DPD's
effectiveness in training and extension work.
3.16      Under the proposed project, an improved relatiinship between  SAED
and Institut S4n4galais de Recherche Agricole (ISRA) and the reinforcement
of their respective research cavacities and efficiency would be achieved



- 14 -
through the coorzinating unit created to back up the 1986 protocol between
SAED and ISRA, for sharing project funds between the two agencies. The unit
would be directed by a specialist financed by the French Ministry of
Cooperation (MC), who would also coordinate SAED's and ISRA's actions with
those of the international research organizations represented in SENEGAL,
the International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI), the West Africa
Rice  Development  Association  (WARDA)   and  the  Centre  de   Coop6ration
Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le D6veloppement (CIRAD).
3.17      If maintained properly, the irrigation infrastructure serving  the
perimeters would  not need  any rehabilitation.   However, farmers  did  not
perform the minimum annual maintenance and, for lack of funds, SAED has been
unable to carry out the necessary works. Funds for maintenance provided
under Cr. 1632-SE have only been available since October 1986. The result
is that the cultivated area of the perimeters has shrunk each year to the
point that rehabilitation is required only ten years after construction. In
the future, it will be the responsibility of the recently established Water
Management Department of SAED to set up maintenance programs and to see to
it that they are executed. In the perimeters to be modernized under the
Project, the main drains would be reconstructed because the present drainage
system is inadequate.   Most of the  primary and secondary  drains would  be
reshaped and some new ones dug. To provide year-round access, primary roads
leading to pumping stations would be reshaped and resurfaced with laterite,
and all other access roads reshaped as required. Pumping stations would be
designed with the capacity to supply enough water for the rice perimeters in
a multiple cropping system.
3.18      Maintenance works  for small  and  remote village  perimeters  and
emergency repairs, that cannot be performed by contractors, will have to be
carried out by SAED, which will, therefore, maintain small force account
units in Matam and Bakel. Furthermore, since it will take time to attract
suitable private firms, SAED will continue to manage and maintain large
pumping stations (serving 300 ha and over) until the end of 1989, through a
specialized mechanical  unit.   The  management  and  maintenance  of  small
pumping stations will be under the full responsibility of the farmers'
associations after  mid-1989.   The  central  workshop  at  Ross  Bethio  is
specialized in machining parts for pumping stations and agricultural
equipment. SAED is looking for a private enterprise to take it over by mid-
1989 (para. 3.11). Its operations would thus remain SAED's responsibility
for some time. Equipment and spare parts required during this period would
be financed under the Project.
3.19      In the past two years, SAED's accounting system has much  improved
with  the  help  of  technical   assistance  and  the  introduction  of   an
IDA-financed cost accounting system.   At the end  of February 1986,  SAED's
auditors appraised SAED's accounting procedures; they noted considerable
improvement in the formulation and use of accounting procedures and attested
that SAED's procedural manual, issued in early 1986, is complete and
includes their  recommendations;  they  added,  however,  that  SAED  lacked



- 15 -
sufficient competent staff in accounting and internal audits. The Project,
therefore, includes the recruitment of accountants and an auditor (para.
4.16), who would also be used as management trainers in SAED's training
program for trainers and producers' associations (para. 4.10). In September
1986, following the audit of the accounts closed on June 30, 1985, the
auditors certified that the Cr. 1632-SE condition of disbursement had been
satisfied, but they could not give a full certification of the accounts.
Certification for the accounts closed on June 30, 1986 has been obtained,
but with a reservation about the detailed inventory of fixed assets and
stocks.
3.20      SAED's  Present  auditors  have  performed  satisfactorily.    The
covenant of Cr. 1632-SE requiring that SAED would have its accounts audited
annually by auditors satisfactory to IDA and that the audited accounts and
auditors' report relative to any financial year would be presented to IDA
not later than six months after the end of the financial year, is repeated
for the proposed project.
3.21      Parts of SAED's accounts are processed by a computer service  firm
in Dakar.   As this  is impractical,  SAED has  financed the  purchase of  a
minicomputer for this purpose. However, as SAED has very little competence
in computer organization, the Project would finance the services of a
computer specialist satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.16).
3.22      Financial Situation.   SAED's activities  analyzed in  the  income
statements are grouped  into six categories:   distribution of inputs,  land
preparation, pumping stations, rice mills, civil works and services that are
not  billed  to  farmers   (public  services  and  general   administration)
(Annex III-2). The first five activities will be progressively taken over
by the private sector between 1986/87 and 1989190; the other services
include general management, programming and development, accounting and
finance, administration, technical assistance to farmers' associations and
training.   The  aggregate  net  deficit  of  the  five  activities  to   be
transferred to the private sector diminished from CFAF 930 million in
1983/84 to CFAF 260 million in 1985/86, as a result of the reduction of
subsidies and improvement of the activity of the rice mills. However, the
land preparation activity continued to be unprofitable because prices
charged  for  services  were  too   low  to  cover  operating  charges   and
depreciation. The cost of public services was considerably reduced over the
same three years, from CFAF 3,240 million to CFAF 1,410 million, mainly as a
result of the decrease in foreign technical assistance and operating costs.
3.23      During SAED's  progressive disengagement  from  production-related
activities its income statement is estimated to show an average annual loss
of CFAF 100 million, as a result of the incomplete recovery of water
charges, which could not be compensated by the profits of the rice mills.
Furthermore a cash loss (before depreciation) of public services activities
(excluding technical assistance) of an average of about CFAF 300 million for
each of the next three years is anticipated. However, an agreement was



- 16 -
reached for the second "Lettre de mission' that the Government should
finance SALED's public services, and they were financed for the three years
of the  'Lettre  de  mission'  until  198-.  Assurances  were  obtained  at
negotiations that the Government would continue to finance SAED's public
services activities, estimated for the duration of the Third "Lettre de
mission' at  about CFAF  300 million  a year.   Under the  previous  project
(Senegal - Irrigation Technical Assistance, Cr. 1632-SE), operating expenses
dealing with production-related activities were financed by foreign lenders
on a decreasing basis, in phase with SAED's disengagement, for the duration
of the Second "Lettre de mission" (July 1984-Juno 1987). The present project
would continue this practice for the duration of the third "Lettre de
mission' (July 1987-June 1990), for the deficit related to the supply of
water, which is SAED's only production-related activity that would not be
self-supporting (para. 6.07). A provision for CFAF 400 million for that
purpose would be included in the proposed project.
3.24      Investments for the next four  years would almost all be  realized
in irrigation perimeters (principally rehabilitation and new small village
perimeters), since SAED would not invest in equipment as a result of its
disengagement from production-related activities. Investments would pick up
from the low level of CPAF 2 billion in 1985/86 to about CFAF 6 billion in
1989/90, but, as they all are financed by the Government and foreign
co-lenders, they would have no influence on SAED's financial situation.
3.25      she last audited balance  sheet available for SAED  is as of  June
30, 1986. SAED's fixed assets and other long-term assets were financed by
its equity consisting mainly of capital (CFAF 2.5 billion), equipment
subsidies   (CFAF 15.4    billion)    and   long-term    Government    loans
(CFAF 1 billion). SAED's 1986 balance sheet presents a net working capital
of CFAP 3.3  billion  over  and above  short-term  liabilities  of  CFAF 3.6
billion. Because of tne progressive disappearance of its production-related
activities, SAED's forecast balance sheets are estimated to show a reduction
of net working capital to CPAF 1.2 billion.
3.26      SAED's present  financial position  is  sound, since  its  present
operating deficit (estimated at CFA? 700 million, or US$1.9 million
equivalent) is covered by budgetary allocations of the Government for public
services  and  by  co-lenders'  credit  for  decreasing   production-related
services, its investments are financed by the Government and by co-lenders,
and technical assistance is financed by foreign aid. Since SAED would
progressively relinquish its production-related actLvities, some of which
were operating at a loss, its future financial position should continue to
be sound.
CNCAS
3.27      CNCAS was created in 1977 (law 77-89 of August 10, 1977) following
the collapse of the institutions previously responsible for agricultural



- 17 -
credit. Its equity capital amounts to CFAF 2.3 billion (US$7.1 million) of
which CPAF  1.7  billion (US$5.2  million)  have  been paid  in.   Its  main
shareholders are the Government, BNDS, Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique
de  l'Ouest  (BCEAO),  CNCA-France,  and  CCCE.   CNCAS's  business  is   to
distribute credit in rural areas for agriculture, forestry, livestock,
fishing and trade, subjŽet to approval by a credit committee, and to collect
rural savings. CNCAS is a sound institution with a competent staff of 60 in
three divisions: administration, finance (in charge of accounting and funds
management) and credit (in charge of credit granting and supervision of
regional branches in Dakar, Thias, Matam and Ziguinchor). CNCAS plans to
open a branch in Dagana that would fulfill the short and medium term credit
needs of farmers, collect savings in the Project area and in the rest of the
Delta, and then progressively replace SAED as the main credit supplier in
the region.   However, CNCAS's  operations are  presently constrained  by  a
ceiling upon the total amount of its credit granting (about CFAF 900
million, or US$2.5 million), within the national framework set by BCEAO for
the banking  profession, and  by a  rigid interest  rate structure.   Credit
operations in the Delta region would not be subject to a credit ceiling and
assurances were obtained at negotiatione that short term credits granted by
the CNCAS Delta branch would be at the maximum rate authorized by banking
regulations; currently, the maximum permissible rate is 13.5X per year. 1/
ISRA
3.28      Agricultural research for  all of  Senegal is  entrusted to  ISRA,
created in 1974 (law 74-53 of November 4, 1974) as a research parastatal.
In 1982, IDA made a US$19 million credit (Cr. 1176-SE) to help, with other
co-lenders, reorganize and strengthen ISRA. The preparation of a second ISRA
project, focusing on research activities, is well under way. In the Senegal
river valley, ISRA operates research stations at Saint Louis and Richard
Toll with a network of sub-stations at Sor, Ndiol, Fanaye, Guede and Nianga.
ISRA would carry out with SAED the research component of the proposed
project (para. 4.18). Their respective roles are defined in the Protocol
signed by the two agencies (para. 3.16).
QMNS
3.29      Regulation of the  Senegal River  has been sought  jointly by  the
riparian states  of  Senegal,  Mali  and Mauritania.   To  this  end,  those
countries established in 1972 the 'Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du
Fleuve S6ndgal' (OMVS) which, assisted by UNDP, has prepared an ambitious
1/   This rate compares with past rates of inflation of 13.32, in 1984, 9.31
in 1985, 7.5X in 1986, and projected rates of 6.5? in 1987, 6.OZ in
1988, 5.5? in 1989 and 5.0? in 1990 and thereafter.



- 18 -
long-range development program to achieve year-round irrigation on suitable
areas along the river. The main secondary benefits of the program would be
the  production  of  hydroelectric   power  and  possibly   the   year-round
navigability  of  the  river   up  to  the   Malian  border.   While   major
infrastructures are planned, executed and operated by OMVS, the member
countries are responsible for the national components of the OMVS program.
The two most important projects under the program are the construction of
two dams at Diama and Manantali, and a study is being carried out to
determine the best economic use of the available water (para. 3.02).
F. Land Use
3.30      While the State  is the  official owner  of land,   SAED has  been
given, together with the rural councils, the responsibility in the valley of
the Senegal river for land development and allocation, and for ensuring that
this land is properly used. SAED would thus have two obligations under the
Project. First, the modernization of the three perimeters under the Project
would approximately double the irrigated acreage and new land would be
allocated, either through enlargement of  family plots (present average  1.5
ha) or to new users, so that irrigated plots could be operated economically.
Assurances were obtaiTied at negotiations that, no later than December 31,
1958, SAED would complete a draft plan for development of new irrigated land
to be cultivated in the three perimeters under the Project, and wculd
promptly furnish it to IDA for comments. This draft plan would include a
plot apportionment to be designed in accordance with economic and technical
requirements generally followed in the irrigation sector. Allocation of
plots to farmers, however, would be decided by the rural councils, composed
of elected members of the population, and it is expected that such
allocation would be promptly executed after the land is developed.   Second,
the farmers have user rights to the land allocated to them, but because of
the small  size  of their  plots,  they  are grouped  together   in  village
sections, and "groupements d'int6rAt 6conomique" (GIE) whenever there is a
need  for  several  associations  within  a  village,  for  the   collective
management of movable pumps, agricultural equipment, input purchase, and
land preparation. Village sections and GIEs have legal status and can enter
into contracts with suppliers of services, equipment and credit.   Contracts
exist between SAED and the GIEs and village sections for the delivery of
services (SAED's responsibility) and for maintenance of perimeters (farmers'
responsibility). With the new demands of do-ble cropping, DPA would have to
revise those contracts. The issuance of a standard contract between SAED
and GIEs or village sections, for the services to be provided by SAED in
return for maintenance of infrastructure by such GIEs and village sections,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project. Though user
rights are well established, the agricultural credit network to be set up in
the Delta (para. 4.11) would not use these rights as collateral, since such
an arrangement would not be enforceable, but would instead rely on the joint
guarantee of the village sections or of the GIEs acting as a group.



- 19 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Background
4.01      The Debi-Lampsar Project  (Credit 775-SE), signed  in March  1978,
included consultant services to assist SAED in preparing feasibility studies
for new  projects.   The Government  then  requested that  IDA  finance  the
present project, including some of the perimeters that these studies had
shown to be economically most promising. The Project was pre-appraised by an
IDA mission in early 1982. Actual appraisal, however, did not take place
because of concern with outstanding issues such as (a) SAED's operating
deficit; (b) insufficient transfer of production charges to farmers by
keeping  input  subsidies;  and  (c)  overstaffing.   After  the  Government
approved the NPA in April 1984 (para. 3.05), thus providing a basis to
resolve the above issues, IDA decided to resume preparation of the proposed
project.
4.02      To help  speed  up SAED's  disengagement  from  production-related
activities, as laid down in SAED's second "Lettre de mission" (1984/87)
(para. 3.9), pending completion of the preparation of the present project,
IDA  agreed  with  the  Government  to  process  the  Irrigation   Technical
Assistance project (para. 2.7). Further strengthening of SAED and the
modernization of irrigation works are part of the present project which,
following an FAO/CP feasibility study, was pre-appraised in March 1986 and
appraised in June 1986.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvemenit
4.03      The proposed  project  has  been  designed  in  line  with  policy
decisions set out in the NPA and implemented in the second "Lettre de
mission" and in the Structural Adjustment program (paras. 3.5 and 3.9), and
it continues the Irrigation Technical Assistance project (Cr. 1632-SE) by
implementing the  recommendations  of  its studies.   Financing  by  IDA  is
justified by (i) its participation in the efficient and sustainable
irrigation development of the huge potential created by the availability of
water from the Manantali and Diama dams; and (ii) its role as lead agency
for the institutional and policy reforms in the irrigation sector, in
cooperation with the Government. Furt.ermore, without IDA's involvement,
the necessary co-financing of the Project could not have been mobilized.
C. Obiectives and General Description
4.04      The broad  objective  of  the  Project is  to  pave  the  way  for
sustainable irrigation  development in  the  Senegal valley.   The  specific
objectives aret (i) to improve the performance and maintenance of the
existing perimeters designed for smallholder farming; (ii) to reduce the
scope of SAED's activities, partly to reduce SAED's costs, but even more
importantly to enable potential private suppliers of such activities to
enter the market; (iii) to explore the scope for diversifying cropping



- 20 -
patterns and forms of irrigated farming; and (iv) to strengthen SAED's
planning and managerial capacities.
4.05      The proposed  project would  achieve  its objectives  through  the
following principal components:
(a)  modernization and expansion of three perimeters (7,000 ha);
(b) training of SAED's trainers, personnel and farmers to enable them
to deal with the new environment created by SAED's disengagement;
(c) development within CNCAS of a credit structure to serve farmers
and private contractors taking over SAED's activities;
(d)  financing, on  a decreasing  basis, of  SAED's operating  expenses
linked to its production-related activities;
(e)  provision of maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(f)  studies, mainly  dealing  with  the  diversification  of  cropping
patterns, the marketing of new crops, and the conditions under
which new forms of irrigation farming can be attracted into the
Senegal Valley;
(g)  technical  assistance  to   SAED,  i.e.,   reinforcement  of   its
planning/programming department and extension services to farmers,
and monitoring and evaluation;
(h)  applied and  adaptive  research,  in coordination  with  ISRA,  to
improve agricultural production systems;
(i)  reforestation; and
;j)  health.
D.   Detailed Features
Modernization of Irrigation Infrastructure
4.06      Modernization  works  would  cover  three  perimeters   (Boundoum,
Thiagar and  Dagana A  & B).   The  main improvement  would consist  of  the
modernization of the irrigation and drainage systems, which would double the
cultivable area from about 3,335 ha to 6,980 ha. Works to be carried out
would include: (a) the modernization and construction of main irrigation
canals, drains and roads; and (b) the overhaul of pumping stations for
irrigation and drainage systems.



- 21 -
4.07      During the planning and design stage, great emphasis was placed on
future  operation  of   the  canal   system  and   water  management.    The
modernization concept adopted would (i) simplify the task of operation and
maintenance; (ii) ensure timely, reliable and equitable supply to water
users; and (iii) provide incentives to farmers to economize on water th.ough
direct volumetric water charges.
4.08      The main  canals would  be remodeled  and new  control  structures
installed tot (i) increase the design capacities to avoid night-time
irrigation; (ii) ensure sufficient control over all irrigable areas at any
time; (iii) increase safety by eliminating the present risk of canal
overtopping; (iv) permit the measurements of amounts of water delivered to
individual blocks. The main canals and pumping stations would be operated
under downstream automatic control and the secondary and tertiary system
under upstream  manual control.   The  main canals  would be  equipped  with
automatic float controlled gates (not requiring any source of energy); the
offtakes to the blocks would be equipped with a baffle-type on/off battery
of modules that provide a constant, but adjustable, flow for any combination
of small gates. These modules are very simple to use and do not need the
frequent adjustments required by conventional simple gates to compensate for
variations in water level in the systems. The system would be able to
operate under the variable conditions resulting from 16-hour operation and
"on demand" irrigation.
4.09      There would be no need to schedule water delivery at the level  of
the main gystem. Water would be distributed by turns with a large degree of
flexibility within  the 50-100  ha blocks.   The delivery  of water  to  the
blocks would be solely on demand (with no advance notice). SAED would be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the main and distribution
systems down to the 50-100 ha block outlets, through its water management
department (para. 3.13). The village sections or GIEs would be responsible
for (i) the organization of water delivery within the blocks; and (ii) the
opening and closing of the modules. SAED staff would record the opening and
closing times of the modules, and the nominal flows for calculation of
volumes delivered to each block. Water would be delivered to each block a
maximum of 16 hours per day.   However, the main system would be  constantly
in operational condition for water delivery at any time if needed.
Contracts between SAED and the village sections and GIEs (para. 3.30) would
include  the  procedures  to  be  established  for  coordination  of   water
distribution, particularly the volumetric water charge system and methods of
payment. Further details can be found at Annex IV-1.
Training of Farmers and SAED's Personnel
4.10      Training and extension objectives  would be achieved through:  (a)
improved organization and management of CNAPTI and DPD operations; (b)
training and upgrading of CNAPTI and DPD staff; and (c) improved delivery of
training (including literacy training) and extension services to farmers, as
a consequence of SAED's disengagement and double-cropping cultivation (new



- 22 -
seasonal programs and testing new agricultural equipment) (Annex IV-2).   To
accomplish this, the Project would finance training equipment, vehicles,
local  and  overseas  training  costs,  technical  assistance,  and  general
operating costs  for  CNAPTI  and  DPD (including  the  direct  training  of
farmers).  The total  training component would  benefit approximately  7,000
families within the scope of the Project, and eventually an additional 8,000
families living in the Delta region.
Agricultural Credit
4.11      The establishment of an agricultural credit network in the valley,
enabling farmers to buy their inputs and to assume other production
activities, is  a  necessary condition  of  SAED's disengagement.   A  study
financed by the International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD), and
carried out in November 1986, concluded that it would be desirable to
provide short-term credit facilities in the Delta, within CNCAS's branch to
be opened in Dagana (para. 3.27). It would distribute CFAF 3.1 billion (US$
10 million) at the end of its fourth year of operation (mid-1992) in the
form of seasonal credit and advances  on crops, to cover farmers'  estimated
short-term needs in the Delta area.  The line of credit and funds  necessary
for the short-term  credit operation,  financed by IDA,  would be  channeled
through a  special  account to  CNCAS,  and  contracts for  loans  would  be
concluded between village  sections/GlEs (para. 3.30)  and CNCAS.  Based  on
SAED's experience, the study estimated the rate of uncollected debt to be
102 the first year of operation and 82 the fourth year, which would require
a rate of interest of 25X to enable the branch income statement to break
even. As this is inconsistent with BCEAO's regulations, Government's letter
of Development Policy provides that a special committee would be set up to
propose actions concerning reduction of unpaid debts and operating costs,
and setting up of a mutual guarantee fund. In any event, the Delta branch
would endeavor to reduce the rate of unpaid debts through constant vigilance
in the field Fnd solidarity of the village sections/GIEs. Agreement was
obtained at negotiations that CNCAS would prepare by Marcl 31 of each year a
report on progress achieved in the implementation of credit operations,
review it by April 30 with the Government and IDA and promptly implement all
measures required as a result of the review. Agreement was also obtained  at
negotiations that satisfactory implementation of these measures before July
31 of each year would be condition of disbursement of IDA funds for the
credit component. SAED would provide its training facilities to introduce
the  village  sections/GIEs  to  agricultural  credit,  and  its   technical
expertise, defined in a Protocol agreed upon between CNCAS and SAED, for the
evaluation of  credit applications  according  to CNCAS's  procedures.   The
Protocol, dated February 27, 1987, would have to be updated to take account
of all the obligations of the two parties in the operation of the CNCAS
Delta region branch. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two
parties would take all necessary means to fulfill their ubligations under
the protocol. A short description of the short-term credit operation is
given in Annex IV-3. In addition, a line of credit of about CFAF 1 billion



- 23 -
for medium-tenm purchase of agricultural equipment is financed by the Banque
Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD).
Financial Support to SAED
4.12      IDA  and  the  Government  would  assist  SAED  in  financing  its
operation during the  three years  of the  third 'lettre  de mission".   IDA
would finance, on a decreasing basis while the disengagement is taking
place, up to CFAF 400 million of the operating expenses that are related to
supplying water  to farmers.   The Government  would finance  SAED's  public
se 'ices for an estimated CFAF 900 million (para. 3.23). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would provide SAED, on a
regular basis, each fiscal year the Project is executed, with the necessary
funds for its public service activities.
Provision of Maintenance Equipment and Spare Parts for SAED
4.13      Equipment and spare  parts for  large pumping  stations and  small
pumps would be financed under the Project, but farmers would be charged the
real cost of these items when double cropping is feasible, as part of the
water charges (para. 6.07).
Studies
4.14      Given the marginal  return to be  expected from cropping  patterns
based on cereals, and the limited pace at which smallholder irrigated
farming cAn be expected to develop, a study will be undertaken on the
marketing prospects for more diversified cropping patterns, and on the
conditions under which private entrepreneurs could be attracted into the
Senegal valley.   Preparation  and  follow-up of  the  study would  require
organizing round tables among local and foreign investors, Government
representatives and European specialists in the marketing of agricultural
products. The study would determine which products are most marketable and
have the best prospects for the new perimeters. It would also examine the
possibility of  exporting  the  valley's unbroken  rice.   The  study would
particularly emphasize ways of implementing a strategy for agricultural
development in the valley once the dams are completed, through recourse to
large investors and imaginative marketing methods. It would determine under
which conditions such investors could be attractedt availability of primary
comon infrastructure, possibility of acquiring land, pricing policy, user
charges and taxation, etc. (para. 3.03). The marketing and diversification
study might be of such a complexity that it would require a pilot project to
experiment with various optionc. If warranted by this study, and guided by
its recommendations, a second study would design the basic infrastructure
necessary for the development of new perimeters, including main irrigation
and drainage canals in the Delta.



- 24 -
Restructuring of SAED
4.15      The  restructuring  of  SAED will  be  accomplished  through  the
reinforcement of its public services, including its new Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit, while its participation in production-related activities
will  disappear.   The  reinforcement   of  public  services  will   require
additional experienced staff, while staff working on production-related
activities will be reduced progressively during the disengagement process
(para. 3.12).
4.16      SAED would reinforce its  public eervices activities (para.  3.13)
by adding or reallocating 52 local staff and adding 4 expatriates for
specific tasks (see SAED's organizational Chart, t'nex IV-4). An expatriate
water specialist would advise the Water Management department. To cope with
development planning for the valley, consultants' studies, the choice and
supervision of contractors for new works and maintenance, and the allocation
of land to new farmers, DPA would hire, before September 30, 1987, one new
local engineer, three technicians and two laboratory assistants to be
financed by IDA. Two additional engineers would be financed separately
under the proposed project. The financial department is short of internal
auditors and accountants able to train farmers' associations in management
accounting, and also lacks experience in computer processing. The proposed
project would, therefore, finance one internal auditor, two accountants at
headquarters, six regional accountants and a computer programmer to be hired
before  June 30,  1988 (Annex IV-5).   SAED's DPD would  also be  reinforced
before September 30, 1988 with 36 engineers and technicians (3 of them
expatriates), whose services would be financed under the proposed project
2/. This staff would have various competences--agriculture, management,
mechanics and electricity--and would be capable of collaborating with the
farmers' associations and with adaptive  researchers working at ISRA.   They
would also advise farmers' associations on new crops and seed varieties.
4.17      Monitoring and  Evaluation.  SAED's  General Director  would  have
overall responsibility for monitoring project implementation. He would be
assisted in this task by the Project Chief for the duration of tile Project,
whose recruitment would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
project, and by MEU. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
unit, reporting to the General Director, would be staffed as needed to
discharge its  responsibilities  under the  Project.   It is  expected  that
before June 30, 1988 an agro-economist, a project agriculturalist and an
economist to be financed by IDA under the proposed project (list in
Annex IV-5) would have been appointed.
2/   Including the Project Director and MEU staff (para. 4.17).



- 25 -
Applied and Adaptive Research
4.18      The  applied   and   adaptive   research   programs   (under   the
responsibility of ISRA and SAED, respectively), which are concerned with the
development of double cropping (para. 3.02), crop diversification on
"fonde/dieri" type soils, seed production, modernization of agricultural
machinery, livestock development, and organic fertilization, would explore
the possibilities offered by year-round irrigation for reducing production
costs and increasing cropping intensity. The applied research component to
be financed under the Project would be carried out under contract with ISRA
(paras. 3.16 and 3.28). Adaptive research activities would be conducted in
the  field  at  the  level  of  the  farmers'  associations  and  in   close
collaboration with SAED (DPD) and ISRA. The adaptive research program,
designed jointly by SAED and ISRA, would be implemented by SAED with
technical assistance  and  follow-up  by  ISRA.   Details  of  the  research
component are in Annex IV-6.
Reforestation
4.19      Tree planting  under the  Project would,  depending on  the  sites
selected, have a positive environmental influence, producing shade and
shelter, serving as windbreaks and shelter belts, reducing wind velocities
(and thus evaporation and movement of sand), and supplying building poles as
well as fuelwood  for domestic energy.   Reforestation activities under  the
Project would be initiated through a working agreement between SAED and the
Direction de la Conservation des Sols et du Reboisement (DCSR) of the
Ministry of Environment Protection (MPN) satisfactory to IDA. The signing
of this agreement would be a condition of disbursement of IDA funds for the
reforestation  component.   The  Project  would  help  farmers  working   on
irrigated perimeters to establish tree plantations on uncultivated soils or
along  canals  within  the  perimeters.    Out  of  7,000 ha  of   irrigated
perimeters, it is estimated that 2-5Z would not be suitable for crop
cultivation and would be planted mostly with Eucalyptus camaldulensis.   The
plantation sites would be selected by the Forestry Department and SAED on
the basis of preliminary field reconnaissance surveys (soils, water table,
beneficiaries, etc.) to be carried out under the Project.
Health
4.20      The human health  implications of  irrigation, namely  water-borne
diseases such as malaria, bilharzia, and gastro-intestinal infections, are
of serious concern. The Project would finance actions by CREDO-SAHEL (para.
4.24) geared to disease control and reduction: development of a health
indicator system, identification of preventive health measures, hygiene
enforcement,  logistical  support  to   the  local  health  institutes   and
supervision of  the  component by  skilled  specialists (Annex  IV-7).   The
proposed project would not exacerbate the present situation, but would
instead reduce the incidence of malaria and bilharzia by improving drainage
and cleaning canals (para. 4.06).



- 26 -
4.21      The intensification  of  agriculture under  the  proposed  project
would promote increased use of pesticides in the Project area. Promotion of
pesticide safety wouald, therefore, be part of this component to prevent any
increase of health hazards, which would be monitored by MEU (Annex IV-7).
E. Ecological Impact
4.22      The Project would have no adverse  effect upon the ecology or  the
health of the population. On the contrary, regular canal cleaning performed
under the Project would increase the speed of water flow, thereby reducing
the population of schistosome-bearing snails, which are the vector of
bilharzia  (para. 4.20).   Improvements  in  water  management  through  the
creation of the water management unit (para. 3.13 and Annex III-1) within
the irrigated perimeters should limit the leaching of fertilizers and
pesticide into the drainage system.   The problem of drainage water  pooling
in stagnant river meanders could be solved if the lower Delta had a drainage
system permitting proper water evacuation. Studies on these topics are
proposed under the Project (para. 4.14).
F. International Water Rights
4.23      The OMVS Council of Ministers gave its non-objection to the  scope
and scheduling of the proposed project as required under the 1972 treaty
among the  member states  of OMVS.   The Republic  of Guinea  also gave  its
non-objection to the Project.
G.   Proiect Implementation
4.24      SAED's Director General would  be responsible for overall  project
implementation. He would be assisted by the Project Chief (para. 4.17), to
whom he would delegate his authority to coordinate and monitor the tasks for
which SAED's various 4epartments are responsible. DPA would be responsible
for the design, contracting and supervision of the construction of the civil
works, with the help of an engineering consultant satisfactory to IDA. DPD
would be responsible for applied research, in collaboration with ISRA (para.
3.16), and for extension services (para. 3.15), whereas training would be
the responsibility of CNAPTI (para. 3.15). CNCAS's branch in Dagana that
would manage the credit network would be responsible for the development of
agricultural credit with technical advice from SAED (para. 4.11). The
reforestation component would be executed by DCSR in close collaboration
with SAED, which would be consulted on the selection of plantation sites.
Execution of the health component would be carried out with CREDO-SAHEL, a
non-governmental  organization  active  in   the  Sahel.   A  condition   of
effectiveness of the Project would be the signing by SAED and CREDO-SAHEL
of a subsidiary grant agreement satisfactory to IDA. In addition, the
signing of working agreement between SAED and CREDO-SAHEL defining their
respective responsibilities in implementing the health component, would be a
condition of disbursement of IDA funds for this component. The Project
implementation schedule is presented in Annex IV-8.



- 27 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs, net of  taxes and import duties, which  would
be waived, but including contingencies, are estimated at CFAF 18.7 billion,
equivalent to US$59.6 million. However, on the basis of the standard profile
for irrigation projects in Senegal, it is projected that it would take nine
years to disburse the proceeds of the credit. Total project cost would then
be CFAF 20.6 billion, equivalent to US$65.6 million, of which about 45? is
foreign exchange. A summary  of project costs is  shown in Annex V-1.   Cost
estimates are computed on November 1986 base prices. The total allowance
for physical contingencies amounts to 112 of base costs for civil works and
102 for other project components. Price Contingencies, which amount to 162
of the total cost or 212 of baseline costs including physical contingencies,
have been calculated according to the following price escalation rates:
91/92
Years           1987/88 88/89  89/90  90/91 and beyond
-i_________.___- in ? ------------
Foreign costs     2.0    1.0    1.0      2.3    3.5
Local costs       6.2    5.7    5.2      5.0    5.0
B.   Proposed Financing Plan
5.02      In view of Government's tight financial situation, it is  proposed
that its contribution be limited to salaries of staff who would be hired to
reinforce SAED (para. 4.16), and to financing SAED's public services (para.
4.12). Government's contribution is estimated at US$5.4 million equivalent.
KfW intends to appraise the Boundoum component in October 1987, and its
contribution is expected to be US$10.0 million equivalent. The French
Ministry of Cooperation would contribute US$1.3 million equivalent in the
form of grant. The BADEA loan, for US$4.7 million equivalent, would be for
a term of 20 years including three years of grace, at an interest rate of 52
per annum.  CCCE would participate with US$10.6 million equivalent.   3/ The
CCCE loan would be for a term of 30 years including ten years grace, at an
interest rate of 1.5Z per annum during the grace period and 2Z per annum
thereafter. IDA would finance the remaining project costs for an amount of
US$33.6 million. The financing plan would tnus be as followss
3/   In fact, CCCE's amount is smaller in its own report, because it spreads
the Project disbursements over five years and not over the nine years
of Bank's standard profile.



- 28 -
FINANCING PLAN
USS Million           I2f
Government                                       5.4                 9
IDA                                            33.6                 51
KfW (F.R. of Germany)                           10.0                15
BADEA                                            4.7                 7
MC (France)                                      1.3                 2
CCCE                                           10.6                 16
Total                                     65.6                100
5.03      The proposed financing plan is based  on a combination of joint  and
parallel arrangements as follows:
(a)  IDA and KfW would finance in parallel the cost of different
subcomponents of  civil  works  for  the   Boundoum  perimeter  (the
percentages would be 44X and 562, respectively);
(b)  IDA and BADEA would finance in parallel the cost of different
subcomponents of civil works for the Dagana A & B perimeter; and
(c)  Other parallel arrangements with CCCE are set up to cover the costs
of civil works for the Thiagar perimeter, research and strengthening
of SAED.
Fulfillment of all condiftlions precedent to initial disbursements under the
financing  agreement  of  the  co-lenders,   except  for  the  KfW   financing
agreement, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project.   In
addition, no disbursements of funds from IDA credit would be made for the
civil works in the Boundoum perimeter before the KfW financing of these works
has become effective. A summary of the proposed financing plan by components
is in Annex V-2.
C.   On-Lending and Administration of Funds
5.04      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be passed on by the  Government
to SAED in grant form and to CNCAS in loan form (with a 30-year repayment
period and 22 interest rate), and signing of a grant agreement between the
Government and SAED and a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
CNCAS would be a condition of effectiveness of the Project. Assets created or
upgraded by investments (modernization works) would belong to the State.



- 29 -
Funds for research, reforestation and health would be allocated to other
subcontracting Government agencies (ISRA, DCSR, etc.) by SAED, also as grants.
D.   Procurement and Use of Consultants
5.05      Procurement arrangements  for the  joint and  parallel financing  of
major packages (para. 5.03) are summarized in Annex V-3.
5.06      Large works and equipment shall be procured under contracts  awarded
in accordance with international competitive bidding procedures consistent
with thnse set forth in Bank's guidelines for procurement. Contracts for civil
works estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less may be procured on the
basis  of  competitive  bidding,   advertised  locally,  in  accordance   with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Maintenance works for the irrigation network
may be  carried  out  by  force account.   Agricultural  inputs  and  services
financed through credit would be procured by farmers under open market
conditions through retail  and service networks.   Contracts for spare  parts,
materials and supplies estimated to cost:
(a)  more than US$20,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(b) less than US$20,000 equivalent may be procured by directly
negotiated purchase.
In the procurement of works, SAED may grant a margin of preference of 7.5Z to
domestic contractors in accordance with said guidelines. For the prior review
by the Bank of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
for each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in said guidelines shall apply.
5.07      Expatriate staff  and short-term  consultant costs  amount to  about
US$4.0 million, including contingencies, for 300 man-months of resident
expatriate staff and 150 man-months of short-term consultants. Their work
would be coordinated and managed by the Project Director (para. 4.17).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference,
qualifications and experience of expatriate staff and consultants financed by
IDA would be acceptable to IDA and that IDA guidelines for use of consultants
would be followed for the selection of consultants.
E.   Disbursement
5.08      Disbursement of the IDA  credit would be  against the categories  of
expenditures  and within   the  limits  shown   in  Annex  V-4.    Withdrawal
applications would be fully documented, except for categories for which
statements of expenditures (SOE) would suffice. In the case of the SOE
procedure, supporting documentation would be kept by SAED for verification by



- 30 -
the auditors financed under the Project (para. 3.19), and for review by IDA
supervision missions. Withdrawal applications for civil works done on force
account (Cat. 1)  would be supported  wi:h a statement  of the work  performed
certified by the engineering consultant (para. 4.24) with unit costs to be
agreed annually with IDA. IDA will not accept a reimbursement application for
less than  an estimated  US$20,000 equivalent.   Disbursements against  SAED's
operating  expenditures   would  be  subject   to  audit  of  such   operating
expenditures (para. 3.19).
VI. MARKETS, PRICES AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Markets
6.01      The incremental  production generated  by the  Project (Annex  VI-1)
would consist of rice, tomatoes, sorghum and maize. Based on past trends,
projected income and population growth in Senegal, domestic demand for these
four crops is expected to outpace supply.
6.02      The Project's  incremental  rice  production (23,300  tons  at  full
project development) would be readily absorbed by domestic demand and would
substitute for imports. Total rice production in Senegal is estimated at
80,000 tons in 1986/87, and represents only 202 of the country's total rice
consumption of about  420,000 tons.   The incremental  production of  tomatoes
under the Project (8,900 tons or about 1,500 tons of tomato paste equivalent
at full development) would be sold to Societ6 de Conserves Agricoles du
Senegal (SOCAS) and  Societe Nationale de  Tomate Industrielle (SNTI).   These
tomato paste processing plants can absorb that incremental production, and the
total amount of tomato paste produced would then approach Senegal's total
consumption of  thiLs item  (equivalent  to 30,000  tons of  tomatoes).   Maize
incremental production under the Project would be loss important (2,000 tons).
B.   Prices
6.03      The official  prices  at  the  producers'  level,  used  for  paddy,
tomatoes, sorghum, and maize--CFAF 85, 29, 70, and 70/kg, respectively--are
those prevailing in 1987, including Government support for paddy in line with
the provisions of  the second  "Lettre de mission'.   The price  for rice  was
raised by about 10? for thc 1934/85 season and again by around 202 for
1985/86. SAED buys paddy from the farmers and sells rice to the Caisse de
P4r4quation et de Stabilisation des Prix (CPSP). Its selling price for rice
is negotiated with CPSP, covering normal processing costs. In 1987, CPSP has
bought SAED's rice at about CPAF 180/kg and would sell it to wholesalers at
about CFAF 125-130/kg (the consumer price is CFAF 160/kg). This operation is
only made possible by a compensatory arrangement whereby imported rice is
bought at the prevailing low international price and sold domestically to
consumers at CFAF 160/kg.   This system ensures that  rice mills ran sell  all
the processed rice at a price that allows them to operate satisfactorily.



- 31 -
C.   Parm Income Analysis
6.04      The three perimeters of Boundoum (3,280  ha), Dagana A and B  (2,580
ha) and Thiagar (1,120 ha) would be cultivated in single cropping during the
first two years of the Project and double cropping would start in the third
year (1989190). The Boundoum and Thiagar perimeters are scheduled to grow
only rice, whereas in the Dagana perimeter, double cropping cultivation would
include 880 ha under rice/rice and 670 ha under maize/ tomato. This means that
only 10? of the total project area of 6980 ha would be under maize/tomato.
These cropping patterns are determined principally by the soil types available
in the different perimeters. A cropping intensity of 160? would be reached in
the three perimeters at the end of six years. Some sorghum would be grown in
Boundoum and Dagana in double cropping with rice during the initial years.
The yields per hectare expected in the three perimeters are 5 tons for paddy,
3 tons for maize, 25 tons for tomato, 2.5 tons for sorghum and 3.5 tons for
straw. Paddy yields would increase in five years from its present level of 4.5
tlha to S tlha because of improved levelling, resulting from the modernization
of the perimeters, and of greater use of herbicides for better weed control.
Other yields are unchanged from present yields. Without the Project, yields
are estimated to decline for lack of adequate maintenance (para. 6.10).
6.05      In setting producer prices for paddy, Government assumes that  gross
income should  be  about  two-thirds  of total  revenues.   Given  the  prices
guaranteed by the Government for the four commodities (para. 6.03) and CFAF
10/kg for straw, total revenues would be CPAF 928,000/ha for rice and CFAF
935,000/ha for maize and tomato. Cash incomes would be as follows:
FARMER CASH INCOMES
Double-Cropoing (1 hectar*)
(in CFAF '000 and US1)
Rice sown +
Rice (2 crope *own)     Rice transol.       Maize + tomato
CFAF'000  USS       CFAF'000       US8       CFAF'000 US$
Total Revenues    928    2,966        028         2,968         936 2,978
Cash Costs
Inputs         137      488         117          360         156  497
Mechanical      76      289         84           268          86   210
Water          100      819         100          818          90  287
Total             812      94         801           988         312   994
Cash Income       616   1,962         827         2,020         628 1,984
Number of man days   240                    280                    B00
Cash income/revenues   sex                   8aX                   87B
Cash incom/man-day  2.0    8.2         2.2           7.1         2.1  8.7



- 32 -
The table shows that for double-cropping the potential financial gains provide
adequate incentives  for farmers  to  participate in  the Project.   Net  cash
income per man-day is more than double the going peak rate for labor of CPAF
l,000/day. Furthermore, the ratio of net cash income to revenue is about in
line with the *two thirds, rule, and with what farmers are accustomed to
receiving in the Delta.
6.06      The  Project  incomes  compare  favorably with  pre-project  single
cropping of rice (Annex VI-2), for which total revenue per hectare is CFAF
417,500 (US$1,330), costs are CFA? 197,170 (US$628) and cash income CFAF
220,300  (US$702).   Cash   income/revenue  per  hectare   is  53X  and   cash
income/man-day is CFAF 1,800 (US$5.7). While income/man-day would increase by
only about 25? with the Project, annual income per farm would increase by well
over 150X.
D.   Cost Recovers
6.07      During the disengagement process, SAED would progressively eliminate
sales of goods and services to farmers, which would be taken over by private
businesses, and the credit recovery function would be transferred to CNCAS.
However, SAED would still sell water to farmersi at a price sufficient to cover
the operation, maintenance and depreciation costs of its water service unit,
except for the part related to public services other than agriculture (para.
3.13 and Annex 111-1). In the reviews of the third 'Lettre de mission" (para.
3.10), particular emphasis would be put on the recovery of the cost of water
after modernization. Because SAED does not maintain the network adequately,
the cost of water is now only CFAF 50,000/ha/year. Since it would have to
increase to CFAF 80,000/ha/year for single cropping and later to CFAF
100,000/halyear for double cropping, farmers would not be charged the full
cost of water before double cropping is feasible. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that SAID would charge farmers the operation and maintenance
costs of water, as calculated by the Water Management department on the basis
of  cost   accounting   principles   generally  accepted,   in   areas   where
double-cropping is effective. In addition, OMVS would charge farmers through
SAED CFAP 5,000/year for each hectare of irrigated land for the bulk price  of
water delivered by the dams.
E.   Economic Justification
6.08      Economic prices are  calculated from  international commodity  price
projections which are reference prices: the reference price for rice is that
of FOB Bangkok 5 broken rice and a discount is applied to 1002 broken rice
(Annex VI-2); the reference for tomato is that of imported tomato concentrate;
and the reference prices for maize, sorghum and the chemical inputs are those
of international trade. International prices are defined FOB Dakar, Senegal's
port of entry, and are converted into farmgate prices to make calculations at
the production site, taking into consideration various transport and handling
costs and, in the case of rice and tomato, the conversion from rice to paddy
and from concentrate to tomato. Details are given in Annex VI-2.



- 33 -
6.09      The following table shows the  comparison between the economic  prices
and the financial prices for the main commoditiest
Producer prices          Economic Prices
(1987)            (1995 in const.86)
Paddy                               CFAF 85/kg               CFA? 51/kg
Tomato                                    29                      41.3
Maize                                     70                      72
Sorghum                                   70                      70
(Details in Annex VI-2)
Whereas economic and producer prices are similar for maize and sorghum, there
are big differences--in opposite directions--for paddy and tomato. Paddy is
presently protected, (para. 6.03) in order to encourage local cereals
production. Tomato is presently paid well below the import price of tomato
concentrate. Labor has been valued at a weighted average of peak rates (CFAF
1000/day) and off-peak inputs when there is no labor market. Valuing the
latter at CFAF 100/day, the weighted average value of labor is CFAF 350/day.
Water has been valued at full cost of operation and maintenance including
replacement, when due, of pumping stations and other medium-term assets.
6.10      The 'with-project' scenario assumes (i) an increase of 112 in paddy
yields over pre-project levels (para. 6.04); (ii) an expansion of irrigable
area from 3,335 ha to 6,980 ha, since modernization permits the recuperation
of land that is not presently irrigable; and (iii) an increase in cropping
intensity to 160Z, beginning in year 3 when double-cropping will be possible
on rehabilitated land. A higher cropping intensity is already being attained
in  the  small  village   irrigation  perimeters  upstream--where  the   best
performers are achieving 3002--but an intensity of 1602 is considered the
best reasonable  expectation in  the Delta.   The *without-project"  scenario
assumes a decline in the yields of pre-project lands (about 252 over five
years), no further diminution in irrigable area, and a cropping intensity,
beginning in year 3 of 1302. Double-cropping would be possible, but it would
be constrained by unreliable pumping.
6.11      On the basis of the "with' and 'without' scenarios indicated above,
economic prices have been utilized to calculate rates of return for the three
rehabilitated perimeters of Boundoum, Digana and Thiagar. "he rate of return
is 10.1? for the three rehabilitated perimeters taken together. 4/ At higher
cropping intensities, the rate of return of those perimeters would be 12.92
at 180?, and 15.2? at 2002, but the probability of reaching these intensities
is small, since time between harvesting of the cold season crop and land
preparation for the next one is short with the present rice varieties. The
4/   The modernization cost per ha is  (in US$/ha): 3,950 for Boundoum,  472
of the Project area, 3,390 for Dagana (37Z), and 3,300 (162) for
Thiagar.



- 34 -
sensitivity analysis shows that if the paddy value went down by 1O0, the
rate of return would be reduced to 7.02; if the tomato value went down by
10% the rate of return would be reduced to 9.22^ if the total crops value
went down by 102 the rate of return would be reduced to 5.5Z; if the input
costs went up by 10?, the rate of return would be reduced to 8.0I and if the
cos0' of construction of perimeters went up by 10, the rate of return  would
be reduced to 9.9Z.
F.   Benefits and Risks
Quantifiable Benefits
6.12      The project would result in the improved operation and maintenance
of some 7,000 ha of irrigation schemes in the Delta and would make sustained
and increased production possible in these areas. The direct quantifiable
benefits of the Project would arise from increased agricultural production,
primarily of rice, but also of tomato, maize, and sorghum.
6.13      The doubl,ng  of  cultivated  area  in  rehabilitated  perimeters,
increased water availability, more reliable water supply, and greater
distribution efficiencv would result in higher cropping intensities, and
hence increased product'on,. The rate of return is calculated assuming yield
increases of 112 over pre-project levels, and the adaptive research
component can be expected to generate amended, improved techniques that
would lead to further improved yields (and/or lower costs).
6.14      By improving  the  ability of  SAED  and of  farmers  to  maintain
existing irrigation infrastructure properly, cost savings would result from
the elimination  of  the  present  need  for  repeated  rehabilitation.   At
present, the average life span of irrigation equipment and infrastructure in
the perimeters is only about 10 years.
Non-Quantifiable Benefits
6.15      The  project's  institutional  reform  program  would  have  major
non-quantifiable benefits. SAED's disengagement from its production-related
activities and the strengthening of  its service and programming  activities
would result  in (a)  attracting new  farmers, agro-businesses  and  support
services  into  the  area;  (b)  more  effective  training  of  farmers   in
agricultural methods, water use, mechanical repairs and management; and  (c)
better formulated projects.  The creation of an  agricultural credit network
in the area would  allow farmers and their  associations to buy inputs  from
private distributors, have their land prepared by private contractors and
their equipment  repaired by  private mechanics.   As SAED  disengages,  and
goods and services begin to be traded on a commercial basis, the business
climate for the development of the valley would be greatly improved.



- 35 -
Risks
6.16      Major risks  would be:  (a) a  slower-than-expected transition  to
double-cropping; (b) inadequate maintenance; (c) failure of the credit unit,
since the history of credit in Senegal shows that delinqtency could hamper
its  operations,  thus  retarding  SAED's  disengagement;  (d)  failure   of
Government to maintain a price policy adequate to sustain agricultural
production;  and  (e)  slowness   of  the  private   sector  to  take   over
production-related activities  relinquished  by  SAED.   Protection  against
those risks has been provided for in the proposed project: (a) the
reinforcement of SAED's training and extension services (para. 4.10) would
provide farmers with adequate technical skills for double-cropping; (b)
SAED's Water Management Department would set up and adequately implement the
maintenance program; (c) SAED's training expertise, technical advice and
experience with farmers would provide strong support to CNCAS's credit
network (para. 4.11); (d) IDA will maintain a constant policy dialogue with
the Government through the preparation and supervision of structural
adjustment programs and 'lettres de mission" (para. 3.05); and (e) a
diversification and  marketing  study  would  be  undertaken,  expressly  to
promote private investment in the valley (para. 4.14).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained at neRotiations that:
(a) The Government would publish by March 31, 1989, an investment
guide consistent with the principles of the Government's letter of
Development Policy and including technical, economic, legal and
administrative criteria (parN- 3.05);
(b) SAED would implement the disengagement program contained in the
third "Lettre de mission", (para. 3.11);
(c) SAED would implement the staff reduction plan contained in the
third "Lettre de mission' and would prepare and submit to the
Association by June 30, 1988, an estimate of further staff
reduction for the following three-year period (para. 3.12);
(d) The Government would ensure that SAED only undertakes irrigation
projects which are technically, economically and financially
justified, in accordance with the provisions of the investment
guide, and that SAED would review periodically its investment
program with IDA and would furnish all information including any
feasibility study prepared for the carrying out of any irrigation
project which IDA might request (para. 3.13);
(e) The Government would cause SAED to provide IDA (i) with project



- 36 -
progress reports every six months; (ii) no later than September
30, 1988, with a report on implementation of its disengagement;
and  (iii) no later  than September 30,  1990, with a   mid-review
report on implementation of the Project (para. 3.14);
(f) Annual audit of SAED's accounts, audited accounts and auditors'
Reports would be presented to IDA no later than six months after
the end of any financial year (para. 3.20);
(g)  The Government would finance SAED's public service activities by
making, each fiscal year, sufficient budgetary allocations on the
basis of the third "Lettre de mission" (para. 3.23);
(h) CNCAS would grant short-term credit for agriculture in the
project area at the maximal rate authorized by the banking
regulations (para. 3.27);
(i) SAED would complete, no later than December 31, 1988, a draft plan
for development of new irrigated land to be cultivated in the
three perimeters and would furnish it to IDA for comments (para.
3.30);
(j) CNCAS would prepare by March 31 of each year a report on progress
achieved in the implementation of credit operations, review it
with the Government and IDA and promptly implement all measures
required as a result of the review (para. 4.11);
(k) CNCAS and SAED would take all necessary measures to fulfill their
obligations under the Protocol, agreed upon and signed by them on
February 27, 1987, and regularly update it as necessary (para.
4.11);
(1) Qualifications and experience of expatriate staff and consultants
financed by IDA would be acceptable to IDA and IDA guidelines for
use of consultants would be followed for the selection of
consultants (para. 5.07);
(m)  SAED would charge farmers the operation and maintenance costs of
water, calculated by SAED's Water Management Department on the
basis of cost accounting principles generally accepted, in areas
where double-cropping is effective (para. 6.07);
(n) SAED would recruit (i) three engineers for DPA by December 31,
1987  (para.  4.16);  (ii)   33  local  advisors  in   management,
agriculture, and mechanics and electricity for DPD by September
30, 1988 (para. 4.16 and footnote); and (iii) one internal
auditor, two accountants and one computer specialist in accounting
at the headquarters and six regional accountants by June 30, 1988
(para. 4.16); and



- 37 -
(o) Establishment of the monitoring and evaluation unit and its
staffing by an agro-economist, a project agriculturalist and an
economist by June 30, 1988 (para. 4.17).
7.02      Conditions of Effectiveness would be that:
(a) The Third "Lettre do mission' setting out Government's
obligations towards SAED and SAED's mandate to achieve the
objectives defined in the Lettre de mission%, has been signed by
SAED and the Government (para. 3.10);
(b) SAED has prepared the standard contract between SAED and the
"groupements d'inter@t economique" and village sections for the
services to be provided by SAED in return for maintenance of
infrastructure by such "groupements' and sections (para. 3.30);
(c) The Project Chief has been recruited (para. 4.17);
(d) The Subsidiary Grant Agreement between SAED and CREDO-SAHEL has
been signed (para. 4.24);
(e) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the MC, CCCE,
BADEA co-lenders' loans have been fulfilled (para. 5.03);
(f) The Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the Government and SAED has
been signed (para. 5.04);
(g) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CNCAS has
been signed (para. 5.04).
7.03      Conditions of disbursements would be thats
(a) Prior to disbursement of funds for the execution of the
reforestation and the health components, SAED and DCSR (para.
4.19) and SAED and CREDO-SAHEL (para. 4.24) have signed agreements
acceptable to IDA defining their respective responsibilities in
carrying out the two components;
(b) Prior to the disbursement of funds for the civil works in the
Boundoum perimeter, the KfW financing of these works has become
effective (para. 5.03); and
(c) Prior to the disbursement of funds for the credit component after
July 31 of each year, all credit-related measures required by the
Government and IDA following the review of the CNCAS annual
progress report, have been fully implemented (para. 4.11).



- 38 -
7.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 26.2 million (US$33.6 million). The Project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 1993.
IRRIV/JBPC4



^ 39 -
ANNEX III-1
Page 1 of 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
ORGANIZATION AND DISENGAGEMENT OF SAED FROM ITS
PRODUCTION-RELATED ACTIVITIES
1.        SAED  currently   performs   numerous   functions:   planning   and
construction of development works, training and advising of farmers, input
supply, irrigation of perimeters, production-related services such as land
preparation and maintenance of development works, maintenance of agricultural
and pumping material, buying and processing of paddy, rice sale, and a
banking role vis-&-vis the farmers. Those functions are performed by four
management departments ("directions"), five decentralized units (the rice
mills unit, the force account unit, the water management unit, the central
workshop unit, and CNAPTI) and twelve perimeters (see organizational chart,
Annex IV-I).   In order  to be  efficient in  its new  role of  planning  and
supervising agency, SAED is disengaging progressively from agricultural
production and distribution activities; The table  in para 10 shows how  SAED
would become an agency strictly devoted to planning and supervising (paras
3.10/3.12).  Public service functions would still have to be assured by SAED.
SAED would contract  for and  supervise the construction  and maintenance  of
major collective  irrigation  installations (which  should  remain  centrally
controlled), would provide technical assistar.ce and training to farmers'
groups and would engagd in a strong R / D program. As shown in para 10 t.he
consequences of the disengagement for SAED's organizational structure is that
DPA and DPD would be reinforced, DF and DA reduced, while DE would disappear
altogether. During the disengagement period a decentralized management unit
would be created and the rice mill and central workshop would be fully
decontralized.
2.        Agricultural credit functions  will now  be performed  by the  DPD.
Henceforth, SAED will ask the farmers to pay a fee for its financial services
and this situatior, will last several years, or at least until agricultural
credit is completely taken over by CNCAS. Consequently, SAED will still
distribute inputs at a progressively reduced level through its perimeters'
stores, despite the establishment of a private warehouse in Richard Toll, and
will still carry out land preparation as farmers will be unable for some time
to pay cash for the services of private contractors. During this period, the
rice mills will deduct the amount corresponding to services performed for
them by SAED's department from the price of paddy delivered by the farmers.
3.        The  structures  that  will  function  at  a  reduced  pace  before
disappearing once disengagement is complete are the following: (a) the force
account unit, which is already decentralized with responsibility for land
preparation, construction and maintenance of small perimeters; (b) the water
management unit, which SAED has decentralized as a first step towards



- 40 -
ANNEX III-1
Page 2 of 7
privatization of most of the pumping stations; ( c) the central workshop,
which has been decentralized prior to its take over by a private operator;
and (d) the perimeters, which will keep their inputs and spare parts stores
and their repair facilities for agricultural equipment, since the private
sector will only gradually be able to provide enough small mechanical
enterprises to service the equipment in use.
4.        The rice mills, which buy, process and sell farmers' paddy, will be
financially autonomous at *the end of 1986 as part of SAED's disengagement
program. The capacity of'the Richard Toll mill will be doubled with KfW
financing and the rehabilitation of the Ross Bethio mill will be financed
under the Irrigation Technical Assistance project (Cr. 1632-SE). The rice
mills will in the long run be taken over by a private owners, who will build
other units farther upstream in the valley for a better coverage of the
region, as rice mills are more efficient than hullers.
5.        Three departments  -- DPA  (Planning/Development),  and  DPD.  and
CNAPTI -- would be reinforced during the disengagement process (paras. 4.15
and 4.16), because more specialists will be needed for the development of the
valley, preparation of projects and training of farmers for functional
literacy, agriculture,  management,  mechanics  and credit.   The  two  other
departments, Finance and Administration, would be reduced along with the
number of SAED's staff.
6.        DPA would be  divided in  three divisions:  (a) Regional  Planning,
which will be responsible for the realization of the master plan, i.e.,
identification and selection of projects, discussion with potential lenders,
preparation of studies, selection of consultants and supervision of those
studies; (b) Study and Supervision, which will be responsible for studies of
small projects, supervision of large projects, from the bidding process to
the completion of the works, establishment of the multiannual program of
maintenance for water works and pedological studies; and (c) Land Management,
which will make proposals for allocation of plots, supervise topographical
studies and enforce the contracts between SAED and individual landusers.
7.        SAED's  technical   department  would   be  eliminated,   and   its
responsibilities transferred to decentralized units of water management and
the central workshop, since the central store will henceforth be supervised
by the administrative department (see para chart).
8.        At the end of the disengagement process, which is expected to  last
about three years, the planning and deve-opment department would be fully
active, whereas the training unit, the finance and administrative departments
would be smaller than they are now. The rice mills would be completely
autonomous and the central workshop would be privatized, the force account
unit would have virtually disappeared (except for emergency services) and the
water management unit would have responsibility only for pumping stations
serving large public customers such as the city of Saint Louis.
9.        Monitoring and  Evaluation.   SAED has,  an  operations  monitoring
division reporting directly to the General Manager that processes and



- 41 -
ANNEX III-1
Page 3 of 7
analyzes data collected in the field (on production, input costs, energy and
mechanization) and that carries out occasional donor-financed surveys of
production systems.   However,  there is  no  systematic monitoring  of  farm
activities (including activities  outside of the  irrigated perimeters).   In
the near future, the permanent availability of water will provoke important
changes in production systems: producers will be able to change their
cropping calendars  and practice  double cropping.   In this  context, it  is
important to know producers' reactions to new cropping methods and to take
advantage of the scope for intensification, while at the same time removing
potential obstacles to such changes. For this crucial monitoring/evaluation
task that will provide SAED's management on a steady basis with information
allowing it to adapt its policies, a unit created in April 1987 under the
direct supervision  of  the  General  Manager.   For  this  mechanism  to be
operational, qualitative survey methods based on farmers surveys will be
necessary. An agro-economist, with the help of a core team (statistician,
etc..) will set up an observation system that relies on SAED's field staff,
i.e., agricultural adviser, perimeter engineer, farmers' group officers,..
10.       Target dates for privatization  of SAED's department involved with
production-related  activities  are   indicated  in  the  following   tables
(pages 4-7).



Pera 10               SAED' s Disenagement from its production-related activities
Activities
SAED 's                                              D7senggement                           After
Departments                       Today                    Period                        Disengagement
1987-1991
Direction de la            - S61sction of consultants and                                 -  Fully fledge  as a
planitfication ot des      euperv,son of foasibility and                                  planning programing and
am8nngnmnts (PA)           dsign studies for engineering                                  supervision department:
project                                                       follow-up evaluation of
resu lt  of gnral I
studies and master plans
and coordinotion of
development projects.
- Launching of bids for new
projects and selection of          - Strengthening of
contractors                        thes  functions
- Planning and supervision of
all Irrigation works, Including
maintenance works
-  Supervision of water            - Doecentralized           -  The supply of water
management                          unit for water            within the perimeters will
management created In      be farmers' responsibility,                  nD  ,
July 198.                  while public services
(supplying water to main                         m
- Farmers would pay the   entities such as St.                              x
full operation and         Louis) will remain                           0  F
maintenince cost of        SAED's responsibility
water when double-
cropping is available.     - New responsibility
Management and
allocation of land



Ce llut de suivi                                               - Monitoring Evaluation    - Monitoring of projcet and
evaluation                                                     Unit created in April      of SAED's public service
1987 and reporting         activities.
directly to the General
Manager.
Centro National            - Training of extension workers                                - Training of
dOApplkation ot de                                                                        multipurpos advisers
Perfectionnement aux       - Functional literacy training    - Strengthening of           (agriculture,
Techniques d'Irrigation    of farmers                         these functions             lrrigation, managemnt,
(CKAPTI)                                                                                  agrieultur 1 mechanics)
- Advising farmors
- Monitoring the
mnagment of farmors
groups
Direction de la            - Reseorch and dovelopment          - Strengthning and         - Research and
Production et du           (nominal)                          helping the project         devolopment in
D6"elOPPOeent (DPD)                                           credit unit to take over  collaboration with ISRA
credit under CNCAS's
rules (no more credit
-  Credit recovering formers,      granting by SAED after    - CNCAS with SAED as a
debts                              the end of 1989)           technical'adviser
Direction des              - Maintenance of agricultural       - Disappears,              - Private sector
Equipemento (DE)           equipment and  ovable pumpr        mintenance Is
temporarily provided by
the central workshop
-U D
£0  32
-  Maintonance and repair of       - July 1986 setting-up    - Maintonance and                                  0  m
vehicles (contral workshop and    of the central workshop   repair undertakon by                                   '-
store)                             into an Independent        local garages or take                             0   -
unit, to be transferred    over of the central
to private hands by        workshop by the private
mid-1989.                  sector



- Th central store
becom. pert of the
administrative
department
-  Managooent and maintenance of   - Disappears               - Producer 's
small pumping stations (division                              *asociations
*loctro-mkanique)
Direction financl4re       - Accounting                        - Shrinking                - Reduced activity:
(DF)                       - Finance                                                      limited to public services
Direction                  - Personnol management                                         - Reduced activity:
administrative (DA)                                           -  Shrinking                limited to public services
- General administration
- Admintstretion of  quipment      -  Integration of
the control store to
the *archds et
Commandos division
In 1966
Centrl sutore taken over
by the private sector by
*id-IM
Force Account Unit         Construction and maintOnance of      - Activity reduced         - Activity reduced to
(R6gie)                    PIV                                because traditional PIV    urgent maintenance works
are disappearing           and new works of no                           c'IO
interest to the privatoe                       O   4
secor                                           4.
URIC                         -  Input Supply                  - Relay to private          - Private sector
sector by mid 1988



-  Rice procossing and marketing   -  Already                    -  Privatization of rice
at Ross Bethio and Richard          decentralized, inerese    mills in distant future
Toll's decentralized rice mills    its capacity and
workable autonomy by
mid-lIS8
Delogations:                -  Perimeters are managd            -  SAED Is disengaging      -  Managed by produe rs
(perimeters)                by SAED                             from its mnagement rolo
to take an advisory
role.
-  Land preparation and repair      -  Relay to private         - Private sector
sector by the end of
VI
1989. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ - 
_~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~o  Z
0 Zx
o    I-



- 46 -
ANNEX III-2
Page 1 of 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SAED
1.        SAED's official presentation of its accounts does not shed any light on
its  activities,  because  all  entries   are  lumped  together  without   proper
clarification and records of actual and book transactions always produce balanced
accounts but fail to evince where the problems are. Because cost accounting was
first introduced in early 1985/86 and will be operational in 1986/87, SAED's
financial department managed to break down its income statements according to the
company's main activities (table p.2) for the years 1983/84 through 1985/86.
SAED did not apply the same procedure to the budget year 1986/87 and to the three
years that will be covered by the third "lettre de mission", 1987/88 through
1989/90 (table p. 4), because financial forecasts are not part of SAED's standard
practices, since these require some sophistication that goes beyond SAED's
present accounting skill and SAED argues that forecasts can be held up against
the company as commitments to be fulfilled, which runs contrary to the spirit and
usefulness of financial forecasts. The latter, consisting of income statements
and fund flow statements were thus prepared by the mission, and reviewed by
SAED's auditors. Reinforcement of the accounting and financial department is a
sub-component of the proposed project (pira. 4.7).
2.        SAED's activities analyzed in  the income statements (p.  2 and 5)  are
now grouped in six categories: distribution of inputs, land preparation, pumping
stations, rice mills, civil works (r6gie) which are split between civil works for
co-lenders (European Development Fund, EDF), and public services. The first five
activities will be progressively taken over by the private sector over the next
four years, 1986/87 to 1989/90, and the public services mainly include General
Management, Programming and Development, Accounting and Finance, Administration,
Technical Assistance to farmers' organizations and Training.
3.        The funds flow statements (p. 4 and 7) are made of two parts: the first
one concerns SAED's activity, and particularly SAED's investments; the second one
shows how the  construction investments of  perimeters are tinanced.   This is  a
clarification brought to SAED's financial documents where investments for SAED
and for the perimeters are lumped together, though perimeter constructions are
assets used by the farmers for their production and are not directly related to
SAED's activities. In SAED's balance sheets (p. 8), the distinction between the
two types of investments is not made, so that the assets of SAED proper and of
the perimeters are added together, as property of the State, but investments of
the perimeters are not added in the forecast balance sheets (p.9).
4.        In the financial statements summarizing the accounts closed on June 30,
1986, SAED's auditors will make the distinction between the assets operated by
SAED, either equipment, land and buildings, and assets operated by producers'
associations, such as the perimeters which have been built for their use.



SEUIAL
IRRIGATION rV PROJECT
Cost Accountlzs Presentation of SAED 's
Past Income Stateeentt in CIA? Mllion
(In CPAF million)
1983/84                                1984/85                                 1985/86
1. Distribution of Inputs
Sales                                          562.3                                   805.2                                  1047.1
Consumptlon. salaries
and other charges               488.6                                   802.3                                  1021.8
Yet income                                             73.7                                     2.9                                   2S.3
2. Load preparation
Sales of ser   ces                              86.0                                   122.2                                   238.8
Consumption. salaries.
other charges                   306.6                                   276.2                                   398
Depreciation                      271.2                                  328.9                                   270
Not income                                           -491.8                                  -482.9                                 -429.2
3. Pumplng stations
Sales of water                                 215.4                                   295.4                                   306.3
Consuuption, salaries.
otber charges                   375.7                                   338.5                                   356
Depreciation                       92.2                                    94.0                                   81
Net income                                           -252.5                                  -137.1                                 -130.7
4. Rice mIlls
Sales of rice                                 1921.9                                  1956.5                                  2549
Purchsse of paddy                1411.1                                  1354.0                                 1418.6
Other consumption.
salaries, otbhr charges         693.9                                   562.2                                   901.9
Depreciation                        -                                      11.5                                    9
Net income                                           -183.1                                   +28.8                                  219.5                a.
5. Civil works (r6gie)
Self-investment                                127.1                                   423.3                                   140.2
Charges                           127.1                                  423.3                                   140.2
Depreciation                       78.0                                    69.4                                   90
Net income                                            -78.0                                   -69.4                                  -90
Works for SDP                                   10.9                                   204.5                                   439.4
Cherges                            4.3                                    81.8                                    21.4
Depreciation                        5.1                                    35.0                                  270
Not lncose                                              1.5                                    87.7                                  148
6. Public services
Miscellaneous revenues                          13.5                                    17.5                                    15.5
Consumption, slaries,
otber charges                   1411.0                                  1149.6                                  528.1
TechnicAl assistance             1224.3                                  811.0                                   433.7
Depreciation                      602.2                                   530.9                                  450
Net income                                                -3224.0                                 -2474.0                                -1396.3
Total of all activities
Revenues                                      2937.1                                  3824.6                                  4736.3
Charges                          7091.3                                 6868.6                                  6389.7
Net income                                                -4154.2                                 -3044.0                                -1653.4
7. Depreciation on perimeters
irrigation works                1179.1                                  1586.2                                  1600                                        0



- 48 -
ANNEX 111-2
Page 3 of 9
SENEGAL
IRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAED's SUMHARIZED PAST INCOME STATEMENTS
(in CFAF million)
1983/84      1984/85         1985/86
Revenues
Production-related activities        2,923.6       3,807.1       4,720.8
Public service activities                13.5         17.5          15.5
Total                              2,937.1       3,824.6       4,736.3
Charges
Salaries and consumption
of goods and services                4,818.3       4,987.9       4,786.0
Technical assistance                 1,224.3         811.0         433.7
Depreciation                          1.048.7      1.069.7       1.170.0
Total                                 7,091.3      6,868.6       6,389.7
Net Loss                                   4,154.2      3,044.0       1,653.4



- 49 -
ANNEX 111-2
Page 4 of 9
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAED's PAST FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
(in CFAF mIIlIon)
1988/9 4            1994/65                 1986/86
Not ;ncom                        4164.2                6644.8                 1685.4
Depreciation                                1048.7                 1989.6                1170
Provision *l                                 994.6                    -                      -
Gross Incom                    2121.0                1974.2                  488.4
Subsidles
Technical assistance                      1224.8                  611.0                 488.7
Equipment (government)                       9.4                    8.4                   -
EquIpment (co-londers)                    2562.6                 1432.1                 212.8
Loans
SNE                                       1765.0                  146.1                 841.4
BDf, USAID                                 270.6
Decrase of working capitol                                         1782.0                 684.0
Deforred rice mills revenuos                 278.5                    -
Construction expenditures        8518.8                2160.4                 118.0
Increase of working capital      471.2                    -
6118.5     6110.6     4124.6     4124.6      1621.4     1621.4
=Z--                                       _         _
Perimeters
BNE                                            6.8                  412.0                 248.8
Foreign co-londers                           286.8                  848.9                 668.7
Construction perimeters           241.6                 762.0                  901.7
o/ Included In the Income statement, In consumption and other charges.



lRRIGATI0N IV PROJECT
SAND's FPOMNAST WNCCI6  STATIENfT
(In CFAPF million)
1986/87                      1987/88                        1988189                    1989/90
1. Distribution of inputs
Sales                           -       1,100        -         -        800         -         -       250       -        -0
Consumption, salaries        1,050         -         -        760        -          -        230       -        -         0         -
and other charges
Det incom                 -          -         50        -         -          40        -        -        20       -          -        0
2. Land preparation
sales of services               -         250        -         -        150         -         -        50       -         -         0
Contmption, salaries,
other charges                 600         -         -        400        -          -        100       -        -        0          -        -
Depreciation
Net income                -         -        -350        -         -       -250         -        -       -50       -          -        0
3. Pumping stations
Sales of water                  -         250        -         -        300         -         -       300       -        -         300
Consumption, salaries.
other charges                 450         -         -        500        -          -        500       -        -       400         -        -
Depreciation
Net income                -          -       -200        -         -        -200         -       -      -200       -          -      -100
4. Rice mills
Sales of ritce                  -       2,800        -         -      3,000         -         -        0        -         -         0        -
Purchase of paddy
other consumption,
salaries, other charges     2,500         -         -      2,700        -          -         0        -        -        0          -        -     f
Depreciation
Not Income                -                   300        -         -         300        -        -        0        -                   0
5. Civil works (rdgie)
Self-investment                 -         180        -                   150        -         -       120       -         -         80       -
Charges                        250         -         -        180        -          -        130       -        -         80        -        -
Depreclation
Not income                -          -        -70        -         -         -30        -        -       -10       -          -        0
Works for others                 -        420        -         -        300         -         -       150       -         -         0        -
Charges                        300         -         -        210        -          -        100       -        -         0         -        -
Depreclation
Net income                -          -        120        -         -          90        -        -        50       -          -        0
6. Public servlces
Miscellaneous revenues (DPA)    -          50        -         -         100        -         -       150       -         -        200       -
Consumption, salaries,         600         -         -        S00        -          -        450       -        -       400         -        -
other charges
Technical assistance           400         -         -        350        -          -        350       -        -        300        -        -
Depreciation                   500         -         -        450        -          -        450       -        -        400        -        -
Net income                      -          -     -1,450        -         -      -1,200        -        -    -1,100        -         -      -900
Total of all activities
Revenues                        -       5,050        -         -       4,800        -         -     1.020       -         -        580       -
Charges                      6,650         -         -      6,050        -          -      2,310       -        -      1,580        -        -
Net income                      -          -     -1,600        -          -     -1,250                 -    -1,290        -         -    -1.000.
7. Depreciation on perimeters
irrigation works             1,700         -         -      2,000        -          -      2,300       -        -      2,600        -        - aL "
ft.E



- 51 -
Annex III-2
Page 6 of 9
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAED's summarized forecast income statements
(in CFAF million)
1986/87    1987/88   1988/89   1989190
Revenues
Production-related activities    5,000        4,700        870        380
Public service activities             50        100        150        200
Total                         5,050       4,800      1,020       580
Charges
Salaries and consumption
of goods and services           5,050       4,800      1,190        730
Technical assistance                 400        350        350        300
Depreciation                       1.200        900        770        550
6,650      6,050      2,310     1,580
Net loss                               1,600       1,250     1,290      1,000
.===  s=====   ==|                 . =mm



- 52 -
ANNEX III-a
Page 7 of 9
SENEAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAED's FORECAST FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(In CFAF million)
1086/97          187/88             1988/89           I989g/
Not Incom                      1,608        -      1,25W        -     1,2W0       -     1,0U0
Depreciation                      -      120          -        00        -       770       -        650
Provision
Gross lncome                   400        -        8S0        -       520       -       460
Subsidies
Technical assiotance            -        400        -       850        -       369       -       800
Recurrent operations (Oovt)    -           -        -       8oo        -        -        -
Recurrent operations            -        560        -       100        -        -        -
(no- londors)
Loans
nE                              -        Soo        -       400        -       1SO       -        O
Decrease of working capital       -        108        -       800        -       790       -        400
Constructlon expenditurs       1,l1         -      1,108       -        686       -       260       -
Increa   of working capital       -     _   -                                                      --
TOTAL                        1,650     1,559     1,450    1,460    1,15    1,150       700      700
Perimeters
Loan.:  Foreign lenders           -      1,86         -     8,000        -     4,50        -     6,000
Construction expenditures      1,85O        -      8,9W9       -      4,650       -     6,9          -



- 53 -
ANNEX III-2
Page 8 of 9
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAEDS'S PAST BALANCE SHEETS
June 30, 1984   June 30, 1985   June 30, 1986
ASSETS
Gross fixed  assets              24,200            26,244          27,382
less depreciation                9.188            11.573          12.743
Net fixed assets             15,012            14,671          14,639
Other long-term assets              974               920             920
Inventory                         1,732             1,335           1.600
Accounts receivable               1,305             1,718           1,200
Other current assets              4,973             3,664           3,000
Cash and bank                       574               198             400
Total current assets          8,584            6,915            6,200
TOTAL ASSETS                 24,570            22,506          21,759
EH -   m -
LIABILITIES
Capital                           2,500             2,500           2,500
Reserves                          1,021                47          -1,606
Subsidies                        15.321            15.389          16.035
Total equity                 18,842            17,936          16,929
Long term liabilities             2,240             1,018           1,359
Accounts payable                  2,246             2,225           2,171
Other current liabilities         1.242             1.327           1.300
Total current liabilities    3,488              3,552           3,471
TOTAL LIABILITIES            24,570            22,506          21,759
_m                   -_=



- 54 -
ANNEX III-2
Page 9 of 9
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SAED's FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
06/30/1987    06/30/1988    06/30/1989   06130/1990
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets              28,532         29,632        30,262        30,512
less depreciation               13.943        14,843         15,613        16,163
Net fixed assets           14,589        14,789         14,649       14,349
Other long-term assets             920            920           920           920
Inventory                        1,700          1,600           500           200
Accounts receivable              1,300          1,200           500           200
Other current assets             2,800          2,300         2,000         2,000
Cash and bank                      400            400           200           100
Total current assets        6,200         5,500          3,200        2,500
TOTAL ASSETS               21,709        21,209         18,769       17,769
LIABILITIES
Capital                          2,500          2,500         2,500         2,500
Reserves                        -3,206        -4,456         -5,746        -6,746
Subsidies                       16,985        17,735         18,085        18.385
Total equity               16,279        15,779         14,839       14,139
Long-term liabilities            1,859          2,259         2,359         2,359
Accounts payable                 2,271          1,971           471           271
Other current liabilities        1,300          1,200         1,000         1.000
Total current liabilities  3,571          3,171          1,571        1,271
TOTAL LIABILITIES          21,709        21,209         18,769       17,769
#SUI:al    tlmlinmm8                    :



- 55 -
ANNEX IV-1
Page I of 5
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
MODERNIZATION OF IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
I. General Design Criteria
The existing irrigation canals were originally designed for 2.0 -
2.4 1/s/ha, based on 24-hour-a-day irrigation. Modernization would consist
mainly of removing silt and brush and elevating and reshaping the canal
embankments in order to raise water levels by about 0.20 m. The capacity
of the irrigation canals and the pumping stations would be designed for 3.5
1/s/ha for the rice perimeters, and 2.5 l/s/ha for multiple cropping
systems, as farmers in practice would be able to irrigate only a maximum of
16 hours per day for rice and about 10 bours per day for other crops.
II. Boundoum Irrigation Works
Existing Situation
1.        The Boundoum  perimeter  is a  depression  in the  Delta  located
between the Senegal river and Gorom, a tributary which serves as a natural
drain. It is located 20 kms from Ross Bethio and is at 70 kms from Saint
Louis.
2.        The first irrigation  works were implemented  in 1969, after  the
construction of  a flood  protection dike.   The main  pumping station,  at
Diawar, was built with the intention to irrigate 2,773 ha net; actually
2,060 ha were developed, to which the previously build northern and
southern sections, totalling approximately  50 ha, have  to be added.   The
pumping station  was  modernized and  electrified  in 1984.   The  area  is
subdivided in irrigation units with an average size of about 50 ha, divided
into 3 to 6 sectors each. The average farm size is about 1.0 ha.
3.        Of the  total potential  area  of 3,274  ha,  only 1,144  ha  can
effectively be irrigated due to pump failure, low supply levels in the
irrigation canals, poor water distribution and inadequate land leveling.
Proposed Development Plan
4.        The project's scope  is the  modernization of 2,561  ha, and  the
construction of 713 ha of new developments in the Boundoum perimeter with
the objective to assure complete water control in a total net area of 3,274
ha. The area corresponds to the work capacity of the population presently
in the area. (Mapst Boundoum perimeter; irrigation and drainage networks,
No. IBRD 20027-19099R).
5.        A solution to switch to  gravity irrigation after the  completion
of the Diama dam was studied. The idea was abandoned because of sandy



- 56 -
ANNEX IV-1
Page 2 of 5
conditions of the sub-soil that prevents deepening of the main irrigation
canals, necessary to convey the required discharges.
Specific Proiect Works
6.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:
(a) construction of a new pumping station as well as new
secondary and tertiary canals, irrigation (20 kms) and
drainage (20 kms), including structures and roads;
(b)  reshaping of the main and secondary irrigation (41 kms)  and
drainage (35 kms) systems;
(c) modernization of the tertiary irrigation units;
(d) modernization of the existing road network;
(e) construction of hydraulic structures including drainage
pumping stations;
(f) land leveling.
III. Dagana Irrigation Works (Sector A and B)
Existing Situation
1.        The Dagana perimeter is located  in a depression situated at  130
kms from Saint Louis, and is enclosed by the Senegal river and an old river
branch between Bokhol and Dagana. Main villages in the area are Dagana,
Gae, Bokhol and Ndiareme with a total population of 20,000.
2.        The first irrigation works were  implemented in 1975.  The  whole
depression is protected from flooding by a dike. Each sector has its own
pumping station equipped with electro-pumps, the power being supplied by
generators.  The  pumping stations  have both  an irrigation  and  drainage
function.  Sectors A and B cover  about 866 ha and 2,055 ha,  respectively.
The area is divided into irrigation units and sub-units.  The average  farm
size is about 2.0 ha.
3.        A particular aspect of  the Dagana projects  is the existence  of
natural depressions which are being  utilized as reservoirs.  A problem  is
their filling time, of 3 to 4 weeks,  which causes a delay in the start  of
irrigation.
4.        Because actual supply levels are lower than designed, the highest
plots are not  gravity commandable.   Because of the  deterioration of  the
pumping stations the situation has gradually worsened.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV-1
Page 3 of 5
Proposed Development Plan
5.        The project's scope is the modernization of sectors A and B  with
the objective to attain complete water control in a net area of 2,592 ha,
divided as follows:
Sector               Rice            Upland Crops              Total
(ha)                (ha)                   (ha)
A                   711                 31                     742
B                 1.066                784                   1.850
1,777                815                   2,592
(Map;  Dagana  perimeter;  irrigation  and  drainage  networks,  No.   IBRD
20027/19099R)
6.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:
(a) modernization of the existing (2) pumping stations;
(b) reconstruction of the main and secondary irrigation (65 kms)
and drainage (68 kms) systems;
(c) replacement of one of the main irrigation canals consisting
of a large natural channel, by two separate new main canals
(10 kms);
(d) modernization of the tertiary irrigation units;
(e)  construction of appurtenant hydraulic structures.
(f) land leveling and repair of boundary dikes.
IV. Thiagar Irrigation Works
Existing Situation
1.        The perimeter is  located at 90  kms from Saint  Louis at 10  kms
downstream of Rosso, between the Senegal river to the North and several
depressions to the South, which serve as a natural drainage water
collector.
2.        The first irrigation works were implemented in 1975 over a  gross
area of 1,080 ha, or 960 ha net, of which about 872 are presently
cultivable. Meanwhile the population has settled around the original
perimeter, making use of the project's infrastructure.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV-1
Page 4 of 5
Proposed Development Plan
3.        The project scope is the modernization of the existing perimeter,
as well as the inclusion of some of the small perimeters surrounding the
initial project, for a total of 1,000 ha.
Specific Project Works
4.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:
(a)  the  construction  of  a   new  drainage  pumping   station,
increasing the capacity of the existing irrigation pumping
stations;
(b)  widering and deepening of the existing primary and secondary
irrigation (19 kms) and drainage (16 kms) canals;
(c)  the construction of access roads to the pumping stations;
(d)  modernization  of  the  irrigation  units,  including   land
(13 kms) leveling.
V.   Ndierba Irrigation Works (formally in  the project, now in a  separate
project financed by SFD)
Existin& Situation
1.        The depression of Ndierba is situated in the lower Senegal  river
valley between Dagana and Nianga. The gross area is 4,330 ha delineated by
the Senegal river to the North and West, the Ngalanka river to the East and
the dunes of Dieri to the South. The distance to Saint Louis is 160 kms.
2.        The present land use bears primarily on the cultivation of  crops
in the lower areas on the receding flood waters (500-700 ha) and the crops
grown on the lower terraces along the river. The population numbers about
8,500 and is divided over 8 villages of which the most important ones are:
Bokhol, Fanaye and Ndierba.
Proposed Development Plan
3.        The scope of the component  is the construction of an  irrigation
and drainage network in a net area of 1,755 ha, subdivided into 75 small
irrigation units managed by the farmers. Water will be partly pumped from
the river by main pumping stations and, depending on the river water level,
partly gravity supplied. It will be distributed to the irrigation units
partly gravitational and partly by small mobile pumps installed along a
common supply canal.
Specific Proiect Works
4.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:



- 59 -
ANNEX IV-1
Page 5 of 5
(a) construction of the protection dike;
(b) construction of 3 main pumping stations, including civil
works and equipment;
(c) construction of an irrigation (31 kms), drainage (92 kms)
and roads networks;
(d) on-farm development works.



- 60 -
ANNEX IV-2
Page 1 of 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
TRAINING
1.        Introduction.  Under  the  re-organization and  disengagement  of
SAED  from   specified  agricultural   activities,  the   Centre   National
d'Application et de Perfectionnement aux Techniques d'Irrigation (CNAPTI)
has been given increased responsibility and autonomy in the delivery of
training and extension services in the Delta Region. In this regard, one
of the major objectives of the project will be to strengthen CNAPTI's
ability to deliver these services, and ultimately, to ensure that farmers
and agricultural organizations are able to perform their tasks and
functions effectively.   In  addition,  CNAPTI will  also  be  required  to
prepare and assist SAED personnel with career changes and adaptations as
part of  the disengagement  process.   To achieve  this, the  project  will
finance various types of training activities, training equipment and
materials, vehicles for extension work, salaries of training personnel,
technical assistance, and operating budgets  over a five year period.   The
inter-relationships between project objectives, means, and tasks, and the
sub-components to be financed are shown in attachment 1.
2.        Organization and Delivery of Training and Extension Services. To
meet the changing needs for training and extension services in the areas
presently served by SAED, CNAPTI has been re-organized into four divisions
(see attachment 2) with inter-related responsibilities as follows:
a)   The  Instructor   Training  Division   (Division  Formation   des
Formateurs-DFF) is responsible for the training and upgrading of
agricultural extension workers and the Directeurs de Pdrimetr&s
(DP) in areas of plant and animal production, farm management and
economics, and land preparation.   The Division also assists  the
DP's with the management, supervision, and evaluation of the
extension workers in each perimeter.
b)   The Farmer  and Literacy  Training Division  (Div4'sion  Formation
Paysanne et Alphab4tisation-DFPA) is responsible for agricultural
extension training and literacy training for farmers, officials
of the perimeters, and others involved in agriculture sector
activities. The Division is also responsible for the translation
of  information  and   training  materials   into  local   native
languages, the preparation of audio-visual materials, and the
management of extension services and operations related to
farming activities.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV-2
Page 2 of 9
c)   The Mechanics  and  Farm Machinery  Training  Division  (Division
Formation en M6canique et Machinisme Agricole-DFM) is responsible
for the training of farm machinery mechanics and extension
workers in the areas of equipment operation, irrigation pump
operation, and  equipment  maintenance.   The  Division  is  also
responsible for the preparation of related training materials,
and the management of extension services and operations related
to agricultural equipment operation and maintenance.
d)   The Re-Training  and Upgrading  Division (Division  Recyclage  et
Perfectionnement-DRP)  is  responsible   for  the  planning   and
implementation of career counseling, re-training, and upgrading
of SAED personnel as required  under the disengagement plan.   In
addition,  the   Division  is   responsible  for   updating   and
maintaining job descriptions and job qualification information
related to SAED operations.
2.1       The training  of  farmers and  extension  work in  the  field  is
carried out at the delegation and perimeter levels as follows:
a)   The Delegation employs a  delegate engineer (Ing6nieur  Delegue),
an agricultural advisor (Contr6leur de la Cooperation), and two
rural home economics monitors (Monitrice d'Economie Rurale). The
delegate  engineer  is   responsible  for   all  activities   and
coordination at the delegation level, the agricultural advisor
assists  the  Perimeter   Directors  in   the  coordination   and
supervision of perimeter activities, and the monitors provide
rural and home extension extension services to womens groups.
b)   The Perimeter is supervised by  the Director with the advice  and
assistance of  the  delegation agricultural  advisor.   Extension
work is carried out by a perimeter farming advisor, a farm
machinery advisor, and a literacy training team consisting of a
supervisor and several literacy instructors.
3.        Target Population.  Training activities  within the scope of  the
project will fall into two basic categories. The first involves the
training, re-training, and upgrading of CNAPTI and SAED personnel to
improve their job competency, and to prepare some for career changes.
Additional activities in the first category involve the training and
upgrading of delegation and perimeter officials and personnel who are in
direct contact with  the farmers.   The second category,  and the  ultimate
objective of the project training component, involves the training and
upgrading of farmers and agricultural workers in the field. The breakdown
and numbers of persons to receive training is shown in the following table.



- 62 -
ANNEX IV-2
Page 3 of 9
TABLE 1
PERSONNEL TO RECEIVE TRAINING
Job Position                             Numbers
SAED:
Director, DFN                    1
Agriculture Instructors          2
Agriculture Agents               5
8       8
Delegation:
Monitors, Home Extension         2       2
Perimeter:
Directors                        7
Farming Advisors                29
Farm Kachinery Advisors         29
Literacy Supervisors             7
Literacy Instructors            52
124     124
General Farming Population:
Farm Organization Leaders    2600
Local Literacy Instructors    225
Farmers (literacy training)  4500
Farm organization personnel  1150
Farm equipment operators       460
Farm equipment mechanics       230
9165    9165
9299
It should be  noted  that  the  above  figures  for  the  general  farming
population include  some duplication,  ie; the  local literacy  instructors
(225) will be drawn from the farm organization leaders (2600), there will
be overlaps between training for farm organization personnel (1150) and the
farm organization leaders (2600), and the farm equipment operators and
mechanics will also be included  in the literacy training programs.   Thus,
the actual numbers of farmers and agricultural workers to be directly
affected by the project training component will be approximately 7,000
rather than the total of 9,165 as shown above. In addition to the
personnel proposed for training as noted above, it is estimated that
approximately 8,000 farm families will eventually receive information on
better farming techniques and practices as those who receive training pass
their skills  and knowledge  to their  fellow farmers.   This process  will
gradually increase in scope and is expected. to continue after project
completion.
4.        Training Programs.   The training  and upgrading  programs to be
implemented through the project will operate on a multiplier principle
whereby each individual will pass on the knowledge and skills he/she has
acquired to  larger  groups of persons.   The catalyst  for  all  training
activities will be CNAPTI, which will organize and implement courses,



- 63 -
ANNEX IV-2
Page 4 of 9
seminars, and training workshops for SAED, Delegation, and Perimeter
personnel who will then train farmers  in the villages and the field.   The
following courses and related training activities will be implemented
during the five year project period as shown in attachment 3:
l.a. Training of Trainers - (2 months duration, overseas) training
methodology for CNAPTI staff.
b. Ag Equipment Management and Finance - (3 months duration,
overseas) advanced training for the Director, DFM.
c. New  Technologies  -  (2  months  duration,  overseas)   locally
adaptable farming methods for Research and Development Division
staff.
d. Corn Production - (3 months duration, overseas) new methods for
increasing corn production for Research and Development Division
staff.
e. Tropical Animal Husbandry - (3 months duration, overseas) the
application of international research to local conditions for
Livestock Division staff.
f. Reforestation - (1 month duration, overseas) the study of
reforestation efforts using local manpower for Water and Forestry
Division staff.
2.a. Rural/Home Economics - (periodic workshops and seminars at
specialized institutions during the first year of the project)
training and upgrading in areas of health, nutrition, cottage
industries, and other activities related to the womans' role in
the community for the Delegation Monitrices.
3.a. Perimeter Management and Organization - (2 day seminars twice a
year) presentation of information and discussions concerning
agricultural research, management of farm organizations, and
farming innovations for Perimeter Directors.
b. Agricultural Management Study Tours - (2 to 3 weeks during the
first year of the project, outside the country) visitation and
observation of farm organizations by Perimeter Directors.
c. Agricultural Techniques and Farm Management - (7 days per year
over five years) seminars and workshops covering ag research,
dissemination   of   ag    information,   management   of    farm
organizations, training of farmers, and other relevant topics for
Farming Advisors.
d. Farm Machinery Operation and Maintenance - (2 months duration)
practical course in farm machinery operation, maintenance, basic



- 64 -
ANNEX IV-2
Page 5 of9
repairs, and specific training methods to be used in extension
work for Farm Machinery Advisors.
e. Farm Machinery Management - (5 days per year over five years)
workshops in equipment finance and management, and new operating
techniques for Farm Machinery Advisors.
f. Supervision of Literacy Programs - (10 days duration) seminar on
the management, supervision, and evaluation of literacy training
programs for Literacy Supervisors.
g. Literacy  Teaching  Methods  -  (one  month  duration)   literacy
training methodology, literacy training in local languages, and
orientation  to  rural  organizations   and  SAED  for   Literacy
Instructors.
h. Management of Rural Development Projects - (2 to 3 week study
tours during the first year of the project) visitation and
observation of rural development projects in other countries for
Perimeter Directors.
4.a. Farm Leaders Literacy Training - (10 weeks duration to be
repeated over a five year period) functional literacy instruction
for farm leaders and potential local literacy instructors.
b. Functional Literacy Methods - (5 weeks duration to be repeated
over a five year period) teaching methodology for local literacy
instructors.
c. Functional Literacy Training - (carried out on a continually
scheduled basis as local literacy instructors are qualified)
basic lessons in written communication as related to farming
operations for farmers and their families.
d. Farm Management Training - (2 months followed by one month
duration courses to be repeated four times during the project)
training in farm organization management and finance for faria
organization leaders.
e. Farm Equipment Operation - (3 months duration to be repeated four
times during the project) for farm equipment operators.
f. Farm Equipment Repair and Maintenance - (3 months duration to be
repeated four times during the project) for farm equipment
mechanics.
5.        Costs  and  Financing  of  Training  Activities.   The   detailed
breakdown of training costs and financing are shown in the general costing
tables for  the project.   Under  optimal conditions,  and based  upon  the
initial 7,000 families to be affected by the project, it will cost



- 65 -
AMNEX IV-2
Page 6 of 9
approximately $400 per family to provide the knowledge and skills necessary
to implement the new crop production methods. If the additional 8,000
families who will indirectly benefit from the new farming practices in the
Delta are to be considered, then costs per family would come to slightly
less than $200. Included in these costs would also be residual benefits
gained through the effective disengagement of SAED from direct farming
activities and improvements in the delivery of agricultural extension
services.



- 66 -
SENEGAL                       ANNEX IV-2
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT                 Page 7 of 9
TRAINING COMPONENT
TAS C              r0 FimANCs
oKECS\w£2 ris,                        -
..  -4w- i//L                                   *
WrA $:W
5ALAR.ILlb



-67-
SENEGAL                         ~
ANNEX IV-2
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT                       rage 8 of y
ORGANIZATION OF TRAINING & EXTENSION SERVICES
CNAPTI
IN EGATI                    ' N'"'ANM            . 'It
06.6LGATE.  
CO- DE LL4  O                 PA M Tt                               M oIo9S
I~~                       E           
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA1,4
|t~~~Ct9ttR !  ~~~~



SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
TRAIMINTM SCHEDULE
V   YLAC1       V   YEAR Z      V   YEAR. 3    V   YELAR4        V   Ye.^  5
I SAE) PEISO.LL
i TRAIMIJ OF TAIMS C ()    -
Oi Acw EQI"E1T
J.ls-EJJ1 4 Flsi M,X)_
c)  (Ls TCILS    (a           -
4 CoRSW PDouCTso%a      to)
*0 lftPIAL- AW1I4b~L
UUSIRY           (.)
Z  MLEGATl0t4 PLO_..CjtE._L
4 RSARALL  H40E. ECD tCSj (2)   - 
3 PER*IETR.. PrsoER.O   LL
a) PE  Mtt4R tiNIAE)LT
STUDY ibut        (.7) Aini'                                                                              ''
c) Ar.. caot.IQuiS.  F M
tADEJ*tr    (Y3)  4-                    4 *                              4 O  O4             
d) SCM V*MWMAY oMPArOt
4 H AO JA  (N)
VAR*I hAMII%NWVLR'(
tWJGW4r&I,T      (zi)             O                O               O    .           O            .
f SUFEWISIOJ OF LU FLRACY
PRcR* A S         C1)    4 
HgT fXRYOO                                                                                  t.t
LJ sM. 1EACMt.J   (52   _
EIGLPiLt,JT PR3LtcrXC------
A CEtie.RAL FARMoNG
POPA- L 4TIOt-4
-) FARM LEADLRE;  L,TI IR.AC
TRAlWIl,JaC     (.oo)                                                              - __o
I) VUWCTIOMAL- LITEr.                                                                                           NX
'TP-AmA 5       (Arw)       _                       -                __                               -
c.) FuJcgt4. LITERCY                                                            C---        ---- ~-          ~
d) FARH HAWAE.MEWT
TKAIttjlG       (i0)__
e) FAW-1 EOAIPHPMEJT
OPERATION  . (44,o)
F)tARm £0u1P-tWr mpAtp,
4 MOJTE.AANCL    X_*



- 69 -
ANNEX IV-3
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
1.        A study for the setting-up of an agricultural credit unit in  the
Delta was carried out by an IFAD-financed mission in November 1986 and this
annex is a summary of its findings. Prerequisites to credit functioning in
the valley are firstly the guaranty for the farmers that the rice mills
could buy their paddy at the official price, which would be obtained by the
timely granting of sufficient short term credit by the banking pool "credit
consortial" to the rice mills, and secondly the possibility for the rice
mills to sell all the rice which they have processed (para. 6.3)
2.        The setting-up of the credit unit would be progressive, and SAED,
that supplies inputs and credit to the same farmers' associations, would
partly continue those activities during its disengagement period, which
will be transitional between the almost complete dependence of farmers on
public services and the expansion of private enterprises in the valley.
This transition will be necessary to accustom the farmers to manage their
own business. Because farms are too small and are not organized to be
managed individually, the credit will be granted to farmers' associations,
easing the task of the credit unit and making associations responsible for
relaying the credit to their members.
3.        The credit unit financed under  the project would only deal  with
short-term credit, seasonal credit and advances on crops (about 10% of the
value of crops, for three months, representing about one third of
short-term credit).  The unit  would be part of  CNCAS's branch at  Richard
Toll, which would also make medium-term credit and collect rural savings.
In the new protocol to be signed between CNCAS and SAED, it would be
specified that SAED would help the village sections and GIEs present their
credit applications and do their accounting work. SAED would also retain a
veto power on granting short-term credit, so that, even though the
responsibility for credit management would be CNCAS's, any credit granting
decision would require both approvals.
4.        The short-term credit task of studying applications of  potential
borrowers and making decisions, after field visits and convening a
consultative credit committee, would be performed by two agroeconomists in
the CNCAS branch under the supervision of the branch manager (though a few
major decisions would be referred to  the Credit committee in Dakar).   The
advisory task would be performed by one agriculturist and one agroeconomist
in SAED. Recurrent charges would be financed by interest paid on credit
for the credit unit (salaries of two staff and related logistics), and by
the Irrigation IV project for SAED's services. CNCAS's procedures would be
applied in Richard Toll and in Natam, where CNCAS already has a branch, and



- 70 -
ANNEX IV-3
Page 2 of 3
in any other place where agricultural credit could be distributed in the
river region, as u further step towards national coverage by CNCAS.
5.        The rate of reimbursement is the  key element for success of  any
credit but more so of agricultural credit, because there is no practical
possibility of taking a guarantee. Obtention of a high rate would be
dependent on: (i) quality of information provided by SAED for the first
application of any borrower; (ii) tightness of the social structure within
the village sections and the GIEs, which is the guarantee of solidarity of
their members; (iii) constant field presence, implying thorough knowledge
of farmers' practices and actions, and sound judgement of CNCAS staff; (iv)
closing out possible recourse to an alternative credit source the year
following a default.
6.        In order for the agricultural credit to be able to operate in the
Delta, requisites are that the present limitations put on credit granting
be removed and the interest rate structure be altered to be better adapted
to risk taken in agriculture (para. 3.27). Income statements for years 1
and 4 have been drawn with the following assumptions:
seasonal  credit  of  CFAF  1.1  billion  in  year  1  and   CFAF
1.8 billion in year 4;
-    advances on  crops  of  CFAF  0.5 billion  in  year  1  and  CFAF
0.8 billion in year 4;
-    interest rate  charged to  the village  sections and  GIEs of  at
least 13.5%
-    cost of line of  credit of 0%  for the first  thres years and  1%
thereafter;
-    rate of uncollected reimbursement estimated at 10% in year 1  and
8% in year 4, would make it necessary, given the charged interest
rate,  to  create  a  guarantee   fund  to  balance  the   income
statements; as there is no source available to finance a
guarantee fund, it is imperative that the rate of reimbursement
be higher than forecast;.
*    charges against earned interest would be split between  operating
expenses of the credit unit (about 7.5%) and a risk reserve (6%);
-    available funds,  when they  are not  borrowed, are  invested  in
money market at 3%.



- 71 -
ANNEX IV-3
Page 3 of 3
7.                           Income Statements
(in CFAF million)
Year 1           Year 4
Revenues
Earned interest
Seasonal credit (6 months)              74.2               121.5
Advances on crops (3 months)            16.8                27.0
Invested funds (3 and 9 months)         27.7                45.0
Total                                  118.7               193.5
Charges
Credit unit recurrent costs             50.5                56.5
Interest on line of credit               0.0                26.0
Uncollected reimbursements             160.0               208.0
210.5              290.5
Guarantee Fund (to be eliminated               91.8                97.0
through higher rates of
reimbursement)



ANE IV-4
*~~~~~~~~~, Page 1 of 2
jEg~I iW                        I
till           II          X  
X~ ~~II                             ___C______
§s!   HI~I             ii    I II  I
F ~~~i  I 
X~~~ 1'  j
ii~ Ii'   '111111
II    i3X~
W ~~~~~~~~~



- 73 -
l  { <                   ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX IV-4
,                   ~~~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
__ 1:1
C~~~~~_ II
t I             ___ __
Ii   ~11X1i
l~   i~'j'   I*



- 74 -
ANNEX IV-5
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
REINFORCEMENT OF SAED AND ISRA
(Additional Staff financed by the Project)
IDA     CCCE    MC    GVT    Remarks
Directeur du projet Irrigation IV             1
Direction de la programmation et
des amenagements (DPA)
-  Engineers                               1                    2
- Technicians                              3
- Laboratory assistants                    2
Direction financiere
-  Internal auditor                        1
- Accountants at headquarters                                   2
- Accountants, decentralized                      2             4
- Computer programmer                      1
Direction de la gestion de l'eau
- Pydraulic engineer                                     1           Expatriate
Direction de la production et
du developpement (DPD)
- Assistant manager                               1
Monitoring/Evaluation
- General Agriculturist                                         1
-  Project Agriculturist                                        1
- Economist                                                     1
R&D Livestock:                                                       3 ISRA.
- Zootechnician                                   1
- Livestock specialists                           2             1
- Livestock technicians                                        2
R&D Agriculture:                                                    10 ISRA
- Extension specialists                           5            4
- Agricultural equipment
specialist                            I                       Expatriate
- Agricultural equipment technician                            1
- Agriculturists                                         2        Expatriates (ISRA)
- Agriculturists                                  4            3
Aid to farmers' associations:
- Sociologist                                                  1
- Agricultural credit specialist                               2
Production:
- Agriculturalist                                 1
- Technicians                                     2
Total                                 10      18      3     25    56



- 75 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 1 of 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
1.        Single-crop farming,  mainly of  rice,  prevails in  the  Senegal
river valley due to the scarcity of water; this situation will persist
until Manantali  becomes  operational  in  1988.   SAED  has  some  limited
experience with rice double cropping, and dry season rice varieties
(e.g., I.K.P) are  already grown.   Heavy  traction (i.e.,  110  horsepower
tractors) is required for land preparation under dry land conditions. SAED
has technical assistance in training, curriculum improvements, facility and
equipment improvements, and seminars and workshops conducted in-house and
within the country.
A.  Technical Improvement of Production Systems
2.        Agronomic Packages.  Double cropping  will require the  promotion
of shorter cycle, short straw, non photoperiodic varieties (para. 5).   The
project would aim at identifying varieties with shorter cycles (8-10 days
less per crop)  in order to help generalize double  cropping and cut  down
energy costs.   The  project would  set  up a  simple  seed multiplication
scheme, taking  advantage  of the  autogamous  character of  rice  and  its
multiplication  coefficient  from  seed  to harvest  (100).   Agricultural
practices that  permit  higher annual  yields,  such  as work  in mud  and
transplanting,  will  be   partially  adopted  according  to  the  cropping
calendar and labor availability.
3.        Mechanization.  CUMA's  mechanical equipment  is not  adapted  to
future agricultural systems for the following reasons: (a) it does not
give priority to cultivation practices under submerged conditions, and thus
does not solve the problem of maintaining leveling; (b) it requires the
grouping of too many producers to permit a real transfer c   responsibility
to the individual farmer and cohesion in the producers' associations; and
(c) it requires the recruitment and payment of skilled drivers and
mechanics by  producers' associations.   At it becomes possible  to  adapt
perennial irrigation on a large scale, the perimeters will be double
cropped, and new technical options should be geared to promoting cultural
practices under submerged conditions, and to developing machinery adapted
to  production  systems.    Although  mechanization  is   crucial  to   the
intensification process, technical solutions are not readily available to
SAED for lack of adaptive research. The proposed project would, therefore,
provide for the investigation of various options (two-wheeled tractors,
animal traction) (para. 6).



- 76 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 2 of 11
4.        Fertilizer, Pesticide and  Herbicide Application.   The types  of
fertilizer and  their application  rates would  remain unchanged.   Organic
manuring would be practiced during project implementation to fit diverse
ecological condition., in the light of results of the adaptive research
program (para. 6). Adequate pesticides would be supplied to control the
most  common  pests   on  rice  (borer),   maize  and  tomato.    Herbicide
applications will be continued on rice as long as direct seeding techniques
are used. The producers' associations would be provided with a seasonal
credit fund for benefit of their members, through CNCA to purchase inputs
in required quantities.
5.        Applied Research.  The applied research component to be  financed
under the project would be carried out under contract with ISRA. A program
satisfactory to the Bank would be agreed upon at negotiations, and would
cover the following aspects:
(a)  development of rice double  cropping, and multiple cropping:   an
immediate  concern  would  be  the  preparation  of  a   complete
technical package supporting the development of rice double
cropping, and multiple cropping. The following aspects would be
investigated:
(i) selection and multiplication of rice varieties for the dry
and rainy seasons;
(ii) fertilizer programs;
(iii) crop rotations on areas under multiple cropping;
(iv) various cultural practices on pre-irrigated soils or under
submerged conditions with different mechanization options.
Priority would ba given to technologies implying more
responsibility and personal involvement on the part of the
farmers. These options are basically animal traction and
two-wheeled  tractors.   Studies  of  convecstional  options,
e.g., small and medium tractors, would be continued;
(b)  ntw croP rotations:  the double rice cropping model is costly  to
operate (pumping, land preparation) and presents some risks
relative to fertility and weed control. Thus, the adaptive
research program would investigate different alternatives such as
the introduction of short cycle legumes, other crops, rice
regrowt1h, etc.   For that  purpose,  new cultural  practices  and
water management techniques have to be explored, the basic aim
being to reduce the cost of pumping and of cultural practices;
and
(c)  livestock  production:   since  rice  cultivation  produces  many
by-products (such as straw), and irrigation allows larger yields



- 77 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 3 of 11
of forage crops, the integration of sedentary livestock in the
irrigated production system would be investigated. The livestock
inputs at the farm level would be assessed: manure production,
working capacity, dairy production, incomes from sales, etc.
6.        Adaptive Research.  The main  objective of the adaptive  research
component is the efficient transmittal of research results to farmers.
Adaptive research activities would be carried out in the field at the level
of the producers' associations and in close collaboration with the services
of SAED (DMD) and ISRA. SAED and ISRA would together design the adaptive
research program, and its implementation would be the responsibility of
SAED with technical assistance and follow-up by ISRA. The activities would
be geared to five broad goals: (a) adaptation of the farming calendar to
double cropping; (b) updating of agricultural machinery; (c) diversifica-
tion on "fond6/dieri" type soils; (d) livestock development and (e) organic
fertilization.
B. Production Systems
1.    Current production systems
7.        At present, the most widespread production system on most of  the
Delta is the rainy season rice monocu.tture, especially on the heaviest
soils  (hollalde).   On  lighter   soils,  rotations  of  rice/tomato   are
practiced, but wil.th only one crop per year.
8.        The existing possibilities for double cropping are not  exploited
(ex: Ndombo Thiago, Gudd6) and the land use rate has never been above 100%.
9.        With mechanized  soil  preparation, direct  high  density  sowing
(140 kg of pregerminated seeds per hectare) and liberal use of herbicides,
average rice yields are about 4.5 T/ha. Average tomato yields are only
about 15 T/ha.
10.       In most cases, the practice of irrigation, linked to the  arrival
of the floods, does not allow for any flexibility in the cropping calendar.
Soil preparation is done under dry conditions and therefore requires
powerful mechanical means that have thus  far been furnished by SAED.   For
the past few years, production groups have been provided with mechanical
equipment that they manage themselves, but the basic technical options
remain unchanged, and soil preparation is done more or less superficially,



- 78 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 4 of 11
offset style, with 60-75 horsepower tractors.
2. Future Production Systems
11.       From 1989 onwards, the completion of the Diama and Manantali dams
will give producers access to an array of new techniques and methods that
w411 make it possible to modify profoundly current production systems so as
t. increase cropping intensity and productivity.
12.       The "NWithout  prolect"  situation'.  However, if no  action  is
undertaken to foster this intensification of production, one can expect a
decrease in production due essentially to SAED's disengagement, which will
have the following consequences:
- a lack of maintenance of the irrigation and drainage network;
- delays in cropping operations and a drop in their quality;
- disorganized input supply.
In such circumstances, rice yields per crop could drop to 3.5 T/ha and
tomato yields to 15 T/ha, with production costs remaining essentially
unchanged. Cropping intensity would increase only slowly, reaching 130% in
5 years.
13.       The  "With  project"  situation.   The  promotion  of   intensive
production methods and the orderly transfer of SAED's responsibilities to
other actors allows us to foresee an improvement in productivity in several
stages.
(a) the adoption of submerged cultivation methods which have several
advantages:
-    the fluid mud obtained after  puddling allows the farmer  to
improve regularly the levelling of the plots, which becomei
in these conditions an ordinary agricultural practice;
-    they permit a better weed control;
-    they permit transplantation.



- 79 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 5 of 11
(b) the development of double cropping.
In  the  rice  paddies,  warm  off-season  (WOS)  rice  will   be
alternated with rainy season rice 1/ which will be adopted by
producers as they become able to handle the cropping calendar
constraints it entails. This assumes not only the use of adapted
varieties (particularly short-cycle varieties for WOS), but also
the adoption of new cropping methods such as direct sowing on
unprepared soils at the beginning of the rainy season. Under
these conditions, average yields could be at least 5 T/ha per
cropping cycle, after five years of operations in the modernized
perimeters.
14.       In mixed  farming situations  (fond6,  "faux" hollald6),  a warm
off-season crop (maize, sorghum) will be alternated with a cool off-season
crop, such as tomatoes, for which a market is assured. y  The  tomato/rice
rotation   (now  dore  over  a  two-year  period)  will  be   progressively
abandoned, however, since tomatoes require certain soil preparation work
(plowing, harrowing, bunding) which is costly and incompatible with the
high-quality levelling required for rice. The cereals will produce from 2.5
T/ha (sorghum) to 3 I./ha (maize) and tomatoes 25 T/ha.
(a) the responsibility of the farmer for his own farm.
Working in water (see above) allows for the use of low-power
(7-14 hp) two-wheeled tractors; these are better suited to the
small size of farms, and farmers or mini producer groups can use
them without resorting to salaried personnel.
15.       A power reduction is also necessary in mixed farming; this  could
be pursued to the point of adopting animal traction.
16.       In the rice paddies of the Delta, another form of intensification
already practiced at Gued6 (Chinese project) and in the irrigated village
perimeters (PIV) could develop if certain economic factors (input cost in
particular) boost production costs excessively. This is:
(a) Transplanting, whether manual or mechanized.
Transplanting allows for better and cheaper control (in terms of
inputs) of adventices, water savings, and for the introduction of
I/ Cool off-season (COS) rice is not feasible given the present lack of
knwoledge on the subject.
y    Two industrial firms -- SOCAS and SNTI -- buy several thousand tons of
tomatoes annually to make concentrate.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 6 of 11
fodder  crops  in  the  cropping  calendar.   Transplanting will
increase farmers' incomes by reducing production costs more than
by increasing  production.   Transplanted rice  yields  would be
about 5 T/ha.
17.       The development of double cropping will be strongly supported  by
SAED and, by the end of the project, cropping intensities should reach 160%
on the rehabilitated perimeters, by the sixth year for Boundoum, by the
fifth year for Dagana and by the third year for Thiagar.
3.   Farms
a)   Farm size
18.       Farm size is variable and an OMVS report estimates the average to
be about 2.2 ha in the Delta. Other more conservative estimates put the
average at  1.5 ha,  with  about three  active  individuals per  farm.   We
consider this average size to be conducive to the intensive cropping that
will develop as equipment power is reduced (or even as animal traction
spreads), following SAED's disengagement.
b) Work time and use of family labor
19.       Current systems combining mechanized soil preparation and  direct
sowing lead in reality to an underemployment of existing labor, since for a
1-1.5 ha farm with 2-3 adults, work time per adult does not exceed 50 days
per year (a great work load occurs at the time of harvesting and
threshing). Farm budgets show small monetary incomes that do not include
incomes from off-perimeter activities.
20.       Future production systems will  considerably increase the  number
of work days per unit of farm area. The following results can be expected:
(i)  for a rice  farm, the introduction  of double cropping  will
increase work time from 120 days to 220 days per year.
(ii)  in mixed farming, the current two-year rice/tomato  rotation
(250  days  per  year)  will   be  replaced by  an   annual
tomato/maize double crop requiring 330 days of work per
year.
(iii)  the introduction of various mechanized systems  (two-wheeled
tractors, work in water) will increase farmer work time from
10 to 30 days per hectare and per year for double cycle rice
cropping and from 40 to 50 days per hectare per yecr in
mixed farming.
(iv) the introduction of manual off-season transplanting may
increase work time from 40 to 60 days per hectare and per



- 81 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 7 of 11
year, thus increasing annual work to 280 days per hectare in
the rice-growing zones.
21.       The average  family unit  (8 people,  of which  3 adult workers)
could thus exploit a 1.5 ha irrigated perimeter intensively (420 days of
work in rice cropping, 495 in mixed farming, or 140 work days per adult
worker in rice cropping and 165 in mixed farming), while still maintaining
some agricultural activities (vegetable gardening, "dieri" cropping) or
other activities outside the irrigated perimeters.
4.    Intensification and mechanization
22.       It was hoped that the introduction of double cropping would lower
production costs  by amortizing  agricultural equipment  more quickly.   In
reality, however, the possibilities in this area are very limited, since
double cropping involves time constraints, and operations which under
monoculture can be spread out over 2 months or more must be achieved in one
month (e.g., threshing of the warm off-season rice crop, soil preparation
for the rainy season).
23.       The amount of threshing  equipment will have  to be doubled  once
double  cropping  is  introduced.    Motorized  equipment  used  for   soil
preparation will be less available for miscellaneous transport tasks and
animal-drawn transport will have to be favored if the risk of an oversupply
of motorized equipment is to be avoided.
24.       In mixed farming,  the development of  animal traction may  allow
producers to carry out crop maintenance operations at lower cost (ridging,
weeding).
25.       In addition,  soil  preparation  and  ridging  done  with  animal
traction (oxen, or preferable donkeys and horses) will allow producers to
do without collective motorized equipment, thus reducing their production
costs noticeably.
5.    Inputs
26.       Fertilizer.   Whether  in   rice  cropping   or  mixed   farming,
fertilizer recommendations should  not vary much.   For rice production  of
4.5 T/ha, th,e following are needed:
100 kg of ammonium phosphate
150 kg of urea
50 kg of potassium chloride.



- 82 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 8 of 11
Corn requires (for 3T/ha):
100 kg of ammonium phosphate
100 kg of urea
50 kg of potassium chloride
Tomatoes require (for 25 T/ha):
300 kg of ammonium phosphate
225 kg of urea
375 kg of potassium chloride.
27.       Herbicides will remain indispensable  in rice cropping (5  liters
of propanyl T per hectare), since weeds cannot be controlled even with
direct  sowing  on  mud  and  in  good  levelling  and water   conditions.
Transplanting, if it develops, could reduce or even eliminate the need for
herbicides. On sorghum and maize, crop maintenance (weeding, ridging, etc)
by means of animal traction may also limit or eliminate the use of
herbicides.
C. Research and Development
1.    Overview
28.       The work carried out by the Senegalese Institute for Agricultural
Research (ISRA) and by its Research and Development Division (RDD) repre-
sent an important fund of knowledge. In the areas of rice cultivation and,
to a lesser extent, other irrigated cereals (e.g., sorghum and maize),
fodder crops and livestock, research is considerably ahead of development.
This assessment of the situation is the basis for the new approach proposed
by the "Direction des m6thodes de dsveloppement" (Directorate of Method-
ology Development (DMD)), of which the main goals are:
(a) an intensification of applied research in areas where existing
knowledge is insufficient; and
(b) more rapid use of the results of applied research by the
technical advisers and by producers.
2.   Research Themes
a)    Applied Research
29.       As regards applied research, additional work should focus on:
(a)  varietal aspects.   New  rice  varieties  will  be  selected  and
composite maize and sorghum varieties will be perfected with a
view to increased productivity and better adaptation of varieties
to irrigated conditions;



- 83 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 9 of 11
(b)  cropping aspects.   The  scope  for  diversifying  production  on
rice-growing land (sorghum, fodder crops, maize, etc) will be
explored, with emphasis on cropping methods (land preparation)
and irrigation methods; and
(c)  mechanization. New types of tractors  as well as power-  tillers,
and new equipment for animal traction, harvesting, threshing and
transplanting will be introduced. New methods, such as work on
flooded and drained soils and in water, will be tested, as will
methods of transplanting on unprepared soils.
30.       Applied research activities are the responsibility of ISRA in the
framework of programs developed jointly with SAED.
b)    Adaptive Research
31.       Adaptive research activities will be carried out in the field  at
the "groupement" level and in close collaboration with the services of SAED
and ISRA. These activities will be geared to five broad goals:
(a) adaptation of the farming calendar to double cropping and the
adoption of new rotations (rice/sorghum or maize, maize/tomato,
etc), thus allowing increased cropping intensity;
(b)  agricultural -achinery. Using  the results  of applied  research,
power tillers for use in rice paddies and animal traction
equipment fer use on "fonde/dieri" type soils will be field
tested;
(c) diversification on "fonde/dieri" type soils. This includes the
use of new land use patterns as well as the use of new irrigation
techniques such as sprinkling irrigation;
(d) livestock. Intensification will offer possibilities in the area
of livestock, e.g., the use of crop residues and by-products, as
well as irrigated fodder production allowing the development of
village-level fattening programs for small stock; and
(e) energy and organic fertilization. The development of livestock
will increase the production of organic fertilizer, which will b"
put to the best possible use (e.g.,vegetable gardening) and will
provide an  opportunity to  produce energy.   In particular,  the
possibilities of the "transpaille" system will be tested; this
system allows the production of biogas and compost from crop
residues and organic matter.
32.       The main  objective of  the adaptive  research component  is  the
efficient transmittal of research results to farmers. If this goal is to
be attained, there must be permanent and effective communication between



- 84 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 10 of 11
the research structure and the farmers. Adaptive research, if it is to be
meaningful, must  be carried  out at  the level  of producer  groups.   The
agricultural adviser will be the farmers' contact person and will be in
charge of seeing these adaptive research activities through to completion.
33.       Adaptive research  is  performed  jointly by  DMD  and  ISRA,  in
accordance with an agreement worked out during negotiations with the Bank;
this agreement defines the distribution of tasks.
34.       SAED and  ISRA have  developed "work  sheets" for  each  research
theme; these sheets include:
(a)  the precise definition of actions to be undertaken;
(b)  the operational set-up;
(c)  the  respective  roles  of   the  various  actors   ZDMD,   ISRA,
agricultural advisers, producer groups); and
(d) the physical and financial resources necessary.
D. Seed Production
35.       The use  of  intensive  agricultural  techniques  requires  plant
material of high quality.   However, rural seed  supply is precarious;  the
Seed  Production  and  Testing  Department  (DPCS)   V/ is  only  partially
operational, and SAED no longer handles the provision of seed (in fact lots
of determined quality selected for multiplication) to producers.
At the seed production level, current needs are follows:
(a) rice:
(i) maintenance of the genetic potential of the best varieties
now used at SAED during the rainy season and during the off
season, i.e., IKP-JAYA-KSS;
(ii) renewal of curent seed stock, which is increasingly mixed,
starting from stock seeds produced by ISRA; and
tJ In the context of measures taken as a result of the adoption of the
NPA, the DPCS of the Ministry of Rural Development has been given
responsibility for programming seed production for "miscellaneous
plants' (foodstuffs such as millet, sorghum, maize, cowpeas and rice).



- 85 -
ANNEX IV-6
Page 11 of 11
(iii) introduction and dissemination of new and more productive
varieties.
(b) maize and sorghum:
(i) ISRA must pursue its work on in, oving the more efficient
composite varieties.   As is  the case  with rice,  however,
there are problems with multiplication and dissemination,
which are not assured at present.
36.       In the context of its adaptive research programme, SAED will have
to organize the production of seed for primary multiplication through a
network of  selected  farmers.   The  DPSC will  retain  a monitoring  and
certification role. Producer groups will handle the final stages of seed
multiplication and stock seed conservation.



- 86 -
ANNEX IV-7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
HEALTH
Following the construction of the Diama and Hanantali, the
presence of water in the irrigation and drainage networks is already
bringing about important changes in the health status of the rural
population.   Health  structures  should be  prepared  to  deal  with  new
situations and the project will thus finance the following activities:
(a) monitoring of health indicators, especially of those relative to
waterborne illnesses, bilharzia and malaria, and to pesticide
intoxication symptoms;
(b) research into appropriate treatment and prevention methods;
studies of their feasibility; their impact on the design and
management of installations (scraping and drying of canals, etc),
on the environment of the perimeters (windbreaks, livestock), on
village (wells, village water purification systems, sewage, etc);
(c)  application  of   corrective  hygiene   methods  in   undesirable
situations (renovation and disinfection of wells);
(d) logistical support to the national network of "Postes et Cases de
Sante"  (dispensaries)   (consultations,   biological   analyses,
pharmacies, field visits, vaccinations, informatlon on pesticide
safety);
(e) creation and animation of village-level health committees;
(f) coordination with the health infrastructures of Saint louis
(hospital,   transfusion   center)   and   Dakar    (epidemiology
department, university, hospitals, WHO, etc); and
(g)  training,  particularly  in  safe   pesticide  handling  and   in
recognition and treatment of pesticide poisonings for villagers
and for local staff of local institutions.



- 87 -
ANNEX IV-8
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(without disbursement profile)
Project Years                       1           2         3          4         5
Calendar Years                     88          89        90         91        92
Irrigation Networks
Cumulative area (ha)               870       2,615      4,360     6,105      6,980
Boundoum (3,280 ha)                410         820        820        820       410
Dagana A & B (2,580 ha)            320         645        645        645       325
Thiagar (1120 ha)                  140         280        280        280       140
In cumulative current CFAF (million)
Civil works                        870       3,190      5,765     8,290      9,881
Credit                             450      2,150       2,600     3,000      3,300
Research, reforestation,
health                             300         755      1,035      1,360     1,745
Training                           180         440        570        715       891
Studies                            150         545        660       660        660
Reinforcement of SAED and
monitoring/evaluation               60         155        245        300       463
Assistance to SAED
(financial and technical)          200        710       1,150     1,510      1,760
Total                            2,210                 12,025    1          18,700



SENEGAL IRRIGAUON IV PROJECT
Construcflon Schedule
wws 1987        1988      1989      1990   1991        1992
Q_ARs   1 21314 1 2 314  12 314 1 21 31 4 1 21 3  1  2 3 4
PREPAPATORY PK9IS
1.NPrerendor                     v   VV
2. Secten d Conru*uf                   A - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
.CONRACMD VY0',
3. RshaebxIUon of  l _ b___ c_
- mhagm wW*mw                     A 
- DagoaflAUIBpsIneW               tL                  _              I 
-Soundoum pOeImtf                TA
~~~~~~~~~~.       -                        mopdet      __tu -  _ _nn _            _____     
T = ten           An Award           I -     h
WAPAC
AgWd BaIk-3086.2
* Z
* Im
I
-' 
N 1



SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUM
87/88                    88189                     89190                     901t1                     91192                    TOTAL
For     Loc      lot     For      Loc      Tot     for      Loc     'it      For     Lac      Tot      For     Loc      Tot     For      Loc     Tot
A. Civil urks
ounda perister                  664.5   349.4  1013.9   664.5   349.4  1013.9   664.5   349.4  1013.9   664.5   349.4  1013.9            0.0      0.0     0.0  2658.0  1397.6  4055.6
Dqana perieter                  453.5   229.0   b82.5   453.5   229.0   682.5   453.5   229.0   682.5   453.5   229.D   682.5            0.0      0.u     0.0  1814.0   916.1  2730.1
Thiaga perieter                 199.4    86.2   2M5.6   199.4    86.2   285.6   199.4    86.2   285.6   19.4    86.2   285.6             0.0      0.0     0.0   797.7   344.7  1142.4
Total bas costs              1317.4   b64.6  1982.0  1317.4   664.6  1982.0  1317.4   664.6  192.0  1317.4   664.6  1992.0             0.0      0.0     0.0  5269.8  2658.4  7928.2
Psical contuigenczes          144.9    73.1   218.0   144.9    73.1   218.0   144.9    73.1   219.0   144.9    73.1   218.0            0.0      0.0     0.0   579.7    2.4   872.1
Prce cootngetcn es             84.2    88.3   172.4    99.6   135.3   235.0   115.3   180.7   296.0   15W.8   226.7   377.4            0.0      0.0     0.0   449.8   631.0  1080.8
Total costs                 1546.5   826.0  2372.5  1562.0   873.0  2435.0  1577.6   918.4  2496.1  1613.1   9b4.4  2577.5            0.0      0.0     0.0  6299.2  3581.8  9881.0
8. iptive ad aplitd rearch
bible cropping                   32.7    42.6    75.3    22.1    32.5    54.7    22.1    32.5    54.7    32.2    32.5    64.8    22.1    32.5    54.7   131.4   172.B   304.2
DIeri                            70.9    22.7    93.b    65.8    22.7    88.5    56.8    14.7    73.5    31.1    16.7    47.8    26.8    16.7    43.5   251.3    95.4   346.7
Nitchaitation                   125.2    10.2   135.5    28.9       9.2    38.2    28.9       8.2    37.2    37.2       7.7    45.0    28.9       7.7    36.7   249.3    43.2   m.5
Livstock                         13.9    21.2    35.1       1.9    13.2    15.1       1.9    13.2    15.1      7.9    13.2    21.1       1.9    13.2    15.1    27.5    74.1   101.6
Ergyiorgarnc  atorl               5.0      0.0     5.0    25.0      5.0    3u.0       2.5     2.5      5.0     2.5      2.5     5.0      2.5      2.5     5.0    37.5    12.5    50.0
Su  production                   67.3    17.9    85.2       1.4     5.4      6.8      1.4    24.2    25.6      7.3      t.9    17.2      1.4    10.4    11.8    78.6    67.9   146.5
Ni scl Iaeous                     0.0      2.2     2.2      0.0      2.2     2.2      0.0     2.2      2.2     0.0      2.2      2.2     0.0      2.2     2.2      0.0    l1.0    lI.u
Total ban costs               315.0   116.8   431.9   145.1    90.3   235.4   113.6    99.b   213.2   118.2    84.8   203.0    83.6    85.3   :68.9   775.7   476.8  1252.5
Physical contin iensas         31.5    11.7    43.2    14.5        9.0    23.5    11.4    10.0    21.3    11.8        8.5    20.3      8.4      8.5    16.9    77.6    47.7   125.2
Price cootiLgIMctes            19.9    15.4    35.3    10.9    18.2    29.1         9.9    26.8    36.7    13.4    28.7    42.1    13.0    35.0    48.0    67.1   124.0   191.2
Total costs                 3U6.5   143.9   510.4   170.5   117.5   288.1   134.8   136.4   271.2   143.5   121.9   265.4   105.0   129.8   233.8   920.3   648.5  1568.9
C. Re4orestation
Total bai costs                 5.4      9.5    14.9      1.1    12.4    13.5       1.1    14.9    16.0       1.9    17.4    19.3      1.1    1ft9    21.0      1S.5    74.1    84.6
Physical contingeucies          0.5      1.0     I.5      0.1      1.2     1.3      0.1     1.5      1.6      0.2     1.7      1.9     0.1      2.0     2.1      1.1      7.4     8.5
Price contingencies             0.3      1.3     1.6      0.1      2.5     2.6      0.1     4.0      4.1     0.2      5.9      6.1     0.2      8.2     8.3      0.9    21.8    22.7
Total costs                    6.3    11.7    18.0       1.3    16.1    17.4       1.3    20.4-   21.7      2.3    25.0    27.3       1.4    30.0    31.4    12.4   103.3   I15.7
O. Health
Total base costs               17.0      6.0    23.0      0.0     6.0      6.0      0.0     6.0      6.0     0.0      6.0      6.0     0.0      6.t     6.0    17.0    30.0    47.0
Physical contingencies          1.7      0.6     2.3      0.0      0.6     0.6      0.0     0.6      0.6     0.0      0.6      0.6     0.0      0.6     0.6      1.7      3.0     4.7
Price contingencies             1.1      0.8     1.9      0.0      1.2     1.2      0.0     1.6      1.6     0.0      2.0      2.0     0.0      2.5     2.5      1.1     8.1      9.2            no
Total costs                   19.8      7.4    27.2      0.0     7.9      7.9      0.0     8.2      8.2     0.0      8.b      B.6     0.0      9.1     9.1    19.8    41.1    60.9
E. Nonztering/uvaluation                                                                                                                                                                                 _
Total bait costs                5.4      8.1    13.5      1.1     8.1      S.2      1.1     8.1      9.2     4.6      8.1    12.7      1.1      8.1     9.2    13.2    40.6    53.8
Physical contingencin           0.5      0.9     1.4      0.1      0.8     O.9      0.1     0.8      0.9      0.5     0.8      1.3     0.1      0.9     0.9      1.3      4.1     5.4
Prico contingmncies             0.3      1.1     1.4      0.1     1.6      1.7      0.1     2.2      2.3     0.5      2.7      3.3     0.2      3.3     3.5      1.2    11.0    12.2
Total costs                    6.3    10.0    16.3       1.3    10.6    11.8       1.3    11.1    12.4      5.6    11.7    17.2       1.4    1;.3    13.6    15.7    55.6    71.4



PROJECT COST SllltY   continued                                                          SENJEGL
I1RIGATION IV PROJECT
F. Strmthaieg of SIIB
Total ban cots               25.0    35.3    60.3    25.0    35.3    60.3    25.0    35.3    60.3    25.0    35.3    60.3    25.0    35.3    40.3   125.0   176.5   301.5
bitcal cotitmie               2.5     3.5     6.0      2.5     3.5     4.0     2.5     3.5     6.0     2.5     3.5     6.0     2.5     3.5     6.0    12.5    17.7   30.2
Price costiopoct,s            1.6     4.6     6.2      LI      7.1    s.e      2.2     9.5    11.7     2.8    11.    14.8    SL       14.5   tM4    12.4   41.7    60.0
tal csts                    29.1    43.5    72.6   29.4    4.0    75.3    29.7    48.3    73.0    30.3    50.9    91.1    31.4    53.3    94.7   14.9   241.9   391.7
L Aid to SI
FiKttAl eAi                     0.0   5s0.0   550.0    0.0   440.0   440.0      0.0   440.0   440.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   430.0  1430.0
lKbucal uid                    66.0     0.0    66.0    66.0     0.0    66.0    66.0      0.0    66.     66       0.0      .0    60       0.0    6.    330.0      9.0   330.0
tItl boe csts                6.0   550.0 Il6.0        6.0  440.0   50.0    6o   440.0  O560    66.o            0.0    ".0    60        0.0    66.0   330.   1430.0  1760.0
Total costs                   .0   550.0   616.0    6A.0   440.0   504.0    6.0   440.0   506.0    6.         0.0      .     66.0      .0    6.0  530.0  1430.0  1760.0
11. Trartug
Total ae cts                1.    122.2   321.7    36.9    59.9    9.7    49.9    57.3   1OLO    90.5    36.0   126.4    32.0    31.0    62           409.5   306.3   71I
Pbical cmtiagau             20.0   12.2    32.2      3.9      4.0     .       4.9     5.7    10.6     .0      3.5    12.6     3.2     3.1     6.3    40.9    30.6    71.6
Price catingencius           12.3   16.1    28.7      2.9    12.1    15.0    4.2    35.4    19.7    10.3   12.2    22.4        5.0    12.7    17.7    35.0    6.4   1M.
Total cots                 232.1   350.5   382.6    45.5    73.0   123.5    57.9    73.4   333   10.9    51.7   141.5    40.1    46.6    6.9           .4   405.4   690.6
t. gricaltwat e oti 
Totl b    costs               0.0  1700.0  1700.0     0.0   50.0   50.0        0.0   400.0   400.0.   0.0   400.0   400.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  3000.0  3050.0
Pfysical costitqcis           0.0   170.0   170.0      0.0    50.0    50.0     0.0    40.0    40.0    0.0    40.0   40.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0   300.0   300.0
Price cstilpciu               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total costs                  0.0  1970.0  1970.0    0.0   550.0   550.0       0.0   440.0   40.0      0.0   440.0   440.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  3O0.0  33.o
J. Stadia
lotal bw  Cots              500.0     0.0   500.0   100.0      0.0   100.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     o.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    00.0      0.0   600.0
Pbysical contiauczas         50.0     0.0    50.0    10.0      0.0    10.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    60.0      0.0    60.0
Price cttinpcihs              0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.4  . 0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total cots                  550.0    0.0   550.0   110.0      0.0   110.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   660.0     0.0   66.0
Total lprolact
Total bs  costs            2450.9  3212.5   65.3  169.5  1616.6  3511.1  1573.0  1725.8  3298.9  1623.6  1252.2  215.8   206.7   195.6   394.3  7550.6  6192.7 157432
Pical coatispncaes          251.7   272.9   524.6   176.0   144.3   320.3   363.9   135.2   29. 1   168.9   131.9   300.8    14.3    18.6    32.8   774.    702.  1477.6
Price costiulocios           120.1   127.5   247.5   115.5   17.1   m.6   131.7   240.3   372.0   178.0   290.0   46.0    22.2    76.1    96.3   567.5   L2.0  1479.5              0
Ttl costs                  2922.5  3612.t  44L4  199.0  213t.0  4125.0  18B.5  2101.3  3%9.9  1970.5  1674.1  3U4.6   245.3   280.2   525.4   992.8  907.5  13700.3               ' -



- 91 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENTS
(US $ million)
Total  Govt and Benef          IDA        MC    CCCE      K+"N      ADEA
1. Civil  aorks
-  Boundoum                17.8        -                7.8         -        -    1P.0           -
-  Daoana  A t               .9        -                7.2         -        -        -        4.7
-  Ihiagar                  5.0
34.7                       15.0                5,0    10.0         4.7
2. Research health
-   and reforestationl      6.          -               1.0       0.5      4.3
3. Strengthenino
SAED/Monitoring          1.6       0.3               0.8       0.5        -
evaluation
4. Trainino                 3.1          -              1.8         -      1.3
5. Short term
-  Credit                  11.b        1.6             10.0         -        -        -          -
6. Studies                  2.3         -               2.3         -        -        -          -
7. Aid to SAED              6.2       3.5               2.7         -        -        -          -
Total                      65.6       5.4              33.6       1.3    10.6    10.0          4.7
- =         - =            --==Z      ZanZ      -cZ      =           =
(100)     (8.2)           (51.2)    (2.0)  116.2)  (15.2)         (7.2)



- 92 -
AMNNEX V-3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT !J
Procurement Method
Items to be procured           ICB             LCB           Other          NA       Total
Earth works, pumping           29.7             -4.7
stations, structures       (16.0)            -           5.6 0          -        (15.0)
Buildings and forestry           -            0.2             -            -          0.2
plantations
Vehiclos                         _              -           0.7            _          0.7
Agricultural equipment           -              -           1.1            -          1.1
Local staff, training,
Operating costs, misc.           -            8.1             -           10.1       13.2
Equipment                        -           (3.1)           -            (2.7)       (6.8)
Expatriate staff,
consultants, audit              -              -           4.1            -          4.1
and studies                     -              -           (2.8)          -         (2.8)
Lines of credit                                                           11.8       11.8
(10.0)     (10.0)
29.7          38.           10.9          21.7       85.6
(16.0)        (3.1)          (2.8)        (12.7)     (83.8)
pj   The figures between bracket. show the respectve amounts to be financed by IDA.
ki Parallel financing by CCCE and French Ministry of Cooperation and procurement through
procedures acceptable to them.



- 93 -
ANNEX V-4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS OF IDA CREDIT
Categories                           Amount              % total
(US$ milli-n)       estimated cost
to be disbursed by
IDA Credit
1. Civil works
a. Rehabilitation of Boundoum             7.0                   44
b. Rehabilitation of Dagana A & B          6.0                   60
2. Equipment and Spare parts
(technical aid to SAED)                  0.9                  100
3. Operating Costs of SAED
(salaries of incremental                 4.6                   45
staff on contract (other than
in category (4)), training,
suppliers' arrears, office
equipment)
4. Services of consultants, experts           1.8                  100
and specialists, and studies
5. Line of credit                            9.5                   85
6. Unallocated                                3.8
33.6



SENEGAL                                                           %
IRRIZATION IV
Project's Incremental Agricultural Production
Production                        With Project St                                   Producti on         Differenco
Without Project                     Full Development                     Incrementol  without proJect      betwen
Existing Situation a/                 (Year 20) bl                          Production    in Yar 26          with-end
(tons)        (ton')        without-ro]ject
Crop Production        Area        Yt-ld      Production       Ares             Yield      Production
Cropped      (W/h)        (tons)       Cropped            (t/ho)       (tons)
(h,)                                   (h.)
(16OO cropping
intensity)
-   A   -                                       -      -                    B -             -C-                 B - c
Paddy               2,810         4.5           12,045         9,882             5.0        49,180          36,515         12,945             86,215
Tomato                520        16              I'o             668            26          16,7M0          8,95e           5,02£            11,07
maize                                                            668             8           2,806          2,805             se              1,706
a/   Single cropping
b/   Double cropping



- 95 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page 1 of 25
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV
ECONOHIC JUSTIFICATION AND FARM BUDGETS
1.        Economic prices have  been computed for  all outputs and  inputs:
paddy,  maize,   sorghum,  tomato;   urea,  potash,   potassium   chloride.
Significant differences between economic and financial prices are obtained
for rice and tomato: CFAF 51/kg compared to 85/kg for rice and CFAF 41.3/kg
compared to 29/kg for tomato. (see annexed tables).
2.        The economic  cost of  farm  labor is  computed as  the  weighted
average of costs for family and non-family labor at different times of the
year. Hired labor during the harvest period (60 days) is paid at the going
rate of CFAF 1000/day, when demand is at its peak, and family labor is
valued at the same rate. During the rest of the year, farm labor is valued
at CFAF 100/day,  when family  labor can provide  most of  the needs.   The
resulting economic cost is CFAF 350/day.
3.        Standard conversion factors have  been applied to  transportation
and to the equivalent non tradeable part (local costs) of investments,
either construction or other components of the project 1/ .
4.        Cost of water and  mechanical farming equipment includes  renewal
of equipment, with annual renewal cost for pumping eetlipment and periodic
new investments for mechanical farming equipment.
S.        Farming operations in the  rehabilitated perimeters, without  the
project, have been assumed to have diminishing yields for the first five
years of the project as the perimeters axe presently poorly maintained.
The cropping area after rehabilitation would be about twice the area before
rehabilitation, which also accounts for the marked increase of production
resulting from the project.
6.        Farmers' budgets  are computed  with  financial prices  and  full
costs of operation and maintenance, including depreciation. The ratio of
gross income to revenue for double cropping is, for R3 rice-rice 63%, for
R4 rice-rice 65%,  for R2  rice-sorghum 62%, for  maize-tomato 65%.   Those
ratios, based on prices decided by the Government, correspond to what is
expected from farming operations in Senegal (See annexed tables).
1/ The use of a shadow exchange rate would have only slightly increased
the rate of return, because the foreign component of the investment
cost is its major part by far.



- 96 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page 2 of 25
SHugal  Irrigation IV Proiet
Ecanic Price of Nico
1966     19      l8       199      199,    195
fO2 Bgkok 5 brokl               165       I6       206      224      23       214
A coast a)
AdJuste  to 196 b)              209      214       233      253      263      242
Quality disclcmt 242 ci         159       162      17       192      200      to
Freight   insmrace di            J0        70       70       70       it       70
CIF Dakar 1001 broke            229      232       247      262      270      254
CIF hakar tFN,Ikg W              82       8          9       9        97       91
port hanlin  i transort           B         6        6        8        I        I
to Dakar warebus  f)
wholeale price Dir               90        91       97      102      105        9
prieay wketiang                  -l        -I       -I       -1       -1       -I
transpot  atar-titce sills       4        -b        4        -6       - 4      -
at St. Loiis k)
ritce   -factory                 63        64       90       95       93       92
paddy  qiuvalent at 65           54        55       5        62       64       60
procesinq costs g)               -7       -7        -7       -7       -7       -7
trnsport to sills 1              -2        '2       -2       -2       -2       -2
collection costs )
paddy faragate                   45       46        49       53       54       51
a)EPCS. Auqust 12. 1916. USINT.
bO  Nw  1985s100,19891130EPDCS. August 12,1966
c) Quality discount of 242 for 1001 broken rice.
d) fros FAOICP preparatiom report
@) CFAF360/US0
fIWAOICP oreparation report, applying SCF of 0.72 to oort handling and road transport CF of 0.58 to transport
g)FAOtIC  prWration rWort, applying SCf of 0.72.
Oi FAO/CP preparation r prt, applying rod transoort CF of 0.6.
i PACOCP preparstion report, applying SCF of 0.72 to collection costs  ind 3 oad *tranupo?) CF of 0.58 to transport



-97-
..                                                      A       :ANEX VZ-2.
*~~~~~~~~~g 3e~                              of 2
EC0IICIIC Pt111  wt ISIZ
,   196*  tmV     ln0       IM       lbo       1
FOB 65 cast a)                    B        100      104       103      100   '   95
Adjusted to 1986 bI               90       113      fig       116      113      1l7
Frei;ht I insurance c)            60        60       10        60       60       60
CItF Dker                        156       173      110        J       173       167
CIF DOWr CFWI/k  4)               57        62       64        64       62       60
port handlinq I transport          I         8        9         6        9        I
to Dakt  warehouse e)
tranpwt to St Louis .)             I         7        7         7        7         7
colletin&fara-StLoxis           -3        -3       -3        -3       -3.       -3
transport costs q)
uize fre gate                     69        74       75        75       74        72
aJEPOCSj August 12, 1966. U$/NY.
bi MN 1985'100,1986613,.P0CS, Auust 12,1984
c.  f ro  FAO/CP preparation reort
dl CFAfM01USS
eWFAO/CP prfparation report, applying  CF of 0.72 to port baindU,g und  road trinsprt CF of 0.55 to traswt
fI FAQ/C? propartion report, applying road tran"ort Ct of 0,.5,
g) FAQ)CP preparation report, applying SCf of 0.72 to collection costs
ECONONIC PRICE OF SORGHUM
1986     l98y     1986      1999     1990      1995
FOB UI    const a)                63        9        99        9         5        90
Adjusted to 1986 b)               94       10t      112       III      107       102
Freiqbt & insurance c)            40        60       60        60       60        60
CIf Dakar                        154       167      172 -   171        167       162
CIf Oatar CFAF/kg d)              i5        60       62        61       60        59
part handling t transport          8         8        9         8        a        a
to Dakar  arehous  e)
transport to  St  tLas  f)         7         7        J        7         7        7
Cotllction&arnJf  tLo             -3        -3        3                  3  $     '
transot cots g)
aize  fu VA   ot                  67        12       73        73       72        70
a)EPDCS, August 12, 1996. US$9T?.
b1 MN 09658100 9,l6cI1EPDCS, August 12,1996
c) froa FAOICP preparation report
d) CFAF360/USS
#1fAO/CP preparation report, applying SCF of 0,12 to port handling and road transport CF of 0.56 to trantport
f) FAC/C? preparitioe r"ort, applying road transport CF of 9.6.
gt FAO/CP preparation rWort, pplying SCf of 0.72 to collection costs



-98-                 p1
..  ANUEX  VI- 2
/ s                             P~~~~~ag* 4 of 25
ECOUiC  RICE aF TlMID   soup;, fAO/CP  prparat¶n   rport)
leprtd *mte au trted CIF DAKA  in 66 const FCFA /1kg                    300.0
Tra"n t ad 1dia  a)                                                       7.,
13.002 I argie 0)                                                        2 81
Transport factorry-M       c i'
El factory price                                                        329.5.- 
Cut 0)                                                                   30.1
Convwrso to pure concstratu 0.9                                         332.7
Tomto equivalent 13.00                                                   5l9,9
Processing cost bi                                                      -17.3
Collertion and transport to factory cost C)                              -1.3
Producer equivalent price                                               41.3
a) Applying SCF of 0.72 to port handling and road transport CF of 0.53 to transport
b3 applying ef of 0.72.
c) Applying road transport CF of 0.58
d) assuling 502 of tranded goods and 501 of non-tranded and applying scf of 0.72 to  _o-trad.
el Applying SCF of 0.72 to colletion cost and road transport CF of 0.56 to transport
ECONORIC PRICE OF UREA
1986     1987      198       1989      1990      1995
FOB 85 const a)                    102       116       136      159       182       167
Adjusted to 1986 b)                Its       131       134      t80       206       189
Freight & insurance c)              75        75        75       75        75        75
CIF Dakar                          190       206       229      255       291       264
CIF Dakar CFAF/kq di                68        74       92        92       101        95
port handling & transport            I         7         7         7        7         7
to Dakar warthouse ci
transport to St Louis f)             6         6         6        6         6         6
ur  f are gte                       St        lb        95      104       113       107
a)EPICS,   t    12.. 191. UMMIt.
bi IWY 196u1010,1     113,EOCS, August 12,1986
c) lank    atit   based am information froo Ivory Coast and Burkinal
di C:AF301US1
IFA4O/Cf preparation report, applying SCF of 0.72 to port handling and road transport CF of 0.56 to transport
f) FAOlCP prepration report, applying road transport CF of v.58.



99                 - r              Qf
ANNEX VI- 2
ECOWONIC 'RICE OF DP                                       17                              Page  5  of  25
1934     1907      193      19W       19`9      199
FOs a  c t a)                    a1s3      13W      11       184      200       20
ASati  to 19   0                  173      180       19S      201       224      234
Ftdr t   iasvase c                 75       75        75       75        75        75
Ctt hwr                           243      255       248      293       301       3I1
CIF h rw IF>n&   di               89        92        97      102       108       112
part hanlin & traw'sort             7        7         I         I      '7          7
to Olakr varehouse el
tranpowt to St Louis fl             4        4         4          .  &          
P fuwe gate                       102      104       109       14       121       124
aIEFIIC, Aipust 12, 1906. MM5/II.
01 WN  19656100,1980113,EPCS. August 12,1906
cl lank "tisated based on inforsation fVo  Ivory Coast and Burkina
4I CFAF160/USS
el41CP oresaration ricort, asulving SCf of 0.'? to ort hatdlifq' and  road trasowot CF of 0.50 to trnsgoOrt
fl FAO/CP prepaation rsot. apply3ng road transport CF of 0.5.
ECIOIIIC PRICE OF POTASIUN CNLORIDt
1994     1987      1988     19W       1990      1995
.  ...__........... ........_ .......... ................. ._................... ............... 
FOS f3  consta)                    45       64        $7        71       78        84
Adjusted to 1904 b)                73       72        76       90        9g        95
Freight & insurance ci             t5       75        75        75       75        ?5
CIF Dakar                         140       147      151       155      143       170
CIf Dakar CFAFIkg di               53       53        54       56        59        61
port handling I transport           7         7        7         7        7         7
to Dakar warehouse ci
transoo t to St Louis f             6        6         6         6        6         6
potasslium chloride fre gat        6        645       47        68       71        73
aiEPOCS. August 12. 1994. USMMiT.
b1 RWU 1985'300.1988113.EPOCS. August 12,199S
ct  Oank esti test  based on inforation frog Ivorv Coast and Burkina
d) CF4fA60IUS$
FADIO/P oreparation reoort, aoolving SCF of 0.7: to oort handling and road transport CF of 0.59 to transponrt
f) FAO/CP preparaton report, aoplying road transport CF of 0)59.
fJRADAN  PROPANYL t
kg       it
94 intarnationml orice                  7160.0    500.0
87 international price a)                874.0   4025.0
88 international price b)                571.0   4480.0
8  interwntional price c)                946.0   4445.0
90 international price di                950.0   4375.0
a) EPICS, August 12,1994 15.0 1 increat  base on petrol 06
0) EM, August 12,1994 28.0 I increat   bua  on petrol 06
ci EPICS. Augutt 12,199  27.0 t increau  base o  petrol  4
di EPQCS, August 12,1994 25.0 2 increase bua  on petrol 06



- 100 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page 6 of 25
FARH BUDGETS
Farm budgets have been computed for six different production
systems.
A.   On the  "hollald6",  these  systems  mainly  produce  rice  (and  some
soi.ghum).
1.   Rl is the present situation with one crop per year (rainy  season
rice) and a yields of 4.5 T/ha. Land preparation is done under
dry conditions with an offset and planting is done by direct
manual seeding.
2.  R2 is  a  possible  intensification of Rl under  current  Delta
conditions. When rice is planted early enough, i.e., in June,
sorghum can be cultivated afterwards (in October). For this last
crop, no land preparation or direct planting is required, and the
level of inputs is low.
3.  R3 is the first model of rice double cropping.  Land  preparation
is performed only once a year. The two crops are planted
directly and by hand. The use of herbicides is obligatory.
4.  R4 is also a rice double cropping system.  Here, land preparation
is performed in the water (with a rotary cultivator) once a year.
One of the crops is sown directly and the other transplanted (off
season, probably). The use of herbicides is reduced.



- 101 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page 7 of 25
The global return per farm of 1.5 ha at full double cropping
grows steadily from Rl to R4, as do the number of work days required and
the return per work day.
Rl           R2       R3              R4
Gross income/farm            330,270      583,130      923,400      939,800
Number of work days a/            180         270          360          420
Return/day of work              1,835       2,160        2,565        2,238
a/   of a male adult
B.    On other  soils ("faux hollalde" and  "fonda"), two  syscems can be
identified:
5.   T/R is a tomato/rice rotation  now being practiced in some  areas
(e.g., Dagana). Cropping intensity is low, and the system is
quite demanding in terms of mechanization, since land preparation
and ridging (or ridge erasing) are required for each crop.
6.   N + T is  an intensified system that will develop once water  is
available on a year-round basis. It is actually an illustrative
model, since many other solutions will develop in those areas.
Tomatoes (cold off-season) or vegetables and a cereal (rainy
season) will be grown each year. Costs could be reduced through
the development of animal traction, which is entirely feasible on
these soils.



- 102 -
SENEGAL
ANNEX VI-2
IRRIGATION  IV PROJECT                                               Page  8 of 25
IRRI1ATION IV - BUD6ETS D'EXPLOITATION                   Deteab'r 1996                                                  ASI
COUTS UNITAIRES PRODUITS
PADDY                  85.0
SOR6HO                 70.0
MAIS                   70.0
TOHATE                 29.0
PAILLE                  10.0
COUTS UNITAIRES INTRANTS
PHOSPHATE AN            100.0
UREE                     75.0
CHLORURE K               93.0
SENENCES RIZ            100.0
SENENCES HAIS           120.0
SfEENCES SOR6H0         120.0
SEKENCES TOIATE       10000.0
FURADAN                 760.0
PROPANYL T             3500.0
COOTS UNITAIRES NECANISATION
EQUIPENENT        COUT/UNITE      ANORTIS.    ANORTIS.    FONCTION.  ENTRETIEN    ENTRETIEN  COUT NORAIRE FRAIS FIN. COUT NORAIRE AVEC fF
:000 F       NEURES       F/N           flH         1(31          fIH         f/H         f/N             fIH
tracteur 60 CV       6000.0        5000.0      1200.0       2000.0         50.0        600.0       3800.0       720.0             4520.0
batteuse 0,8t/h      3600.0        3000.0      1200.0        1500.0        80.0        960.0       3660.0       720.0            4380.0
offset               1000.0        2500.0       400.0                     100.0        400.0        800.0       240.0             1040.0
reaorque             1000.0       5000.0        200.0                      50.0        100.0        300.0       120.0              420.0
billonneuse           8000.        2500.0       320.0                     100.0        320.0        640.0       1M2.0              832.0
fraise + RC          1500.0       2500.0        600.0                     150.0        900.0       1500.0       360.0             1860.0
chaine eotoc.       2D50.0
chaine tract. bo      400.0
COUT DES OPERATIONS CULTURALES
'OUT NORAIRE  COUT NOR.*    TEMPS       COUT TOTAL EOUT TOTAL (AVEC FFI#
F/H          F/N      HEURES/HA        F/HA        F/HA
a  offset              4600.0        5560.0         4.0       18400.0     22240.0
b billonnage           4440.0        5352.0         2.0       8;80.0      10704.0
c  fraisaqe            5300.0        6390.0         5.0      26500.0      31900.0
d  battage             3660.0        4380.0         6.0      21960.0      26280.0
transport           4100.0        4940.0                   4100.0          0.0
*: FF  frais financiers suw credit equapeunt
-_-  _-- - - - - -- - - - - -- - -  - -  -  - - - - --_-        . - - - - - --.-   - - -- - - - - -- -  - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- -  -  - -



- 103 -
ANNEX  VI-2
0        1 {SENEGA1.                                                                          Page 9 of 25
04T                                            IRRICATION IV PROJECT
EXPLOITATION IYPE RtIRll HIv                                                                     hS     
HIVERNAGE              CSC                        TOTALJAN
INTRANtS
COUT/UhiTi  sQUANTITE/HA   0IE!PL. :QRll    tITE:HA QJEIPL.   :  OlEIPt.          COUT
PHOSPHATE AN             IOO.P I      100.0        150.0 t         0.0         0.0 I       150.0     15u00.Q:
UREE                      70 o        150.0        225.0:          0.0         0.0 :       225.0     16875.v:
CHLORURE I                §7.0 s       5O.;         75.0:          0.0         0.0:         15.o      b9'5.0
SEIIENCES Rll    I       lOo.o        140.0        210.u          0.0          0.0 I       .I0.0    .21:00.0
SEIENtES HAIS            12m.Q:                      0.0                       0 0.Q:        0.0         0.0 X
SEIENCES SOReHa          l' O.v                      0.0 :                     0.0:          0.0         O.u
SENEIES IOnATE          vooo00 0                     0.0                       O.vt:         0.0         0.0
FURADAN                  t69.ij t       5.1)        2..5:          0.0         0.0 t        22.5     17100.0
PRDPAtIL t              3500.0:         S.e          7.5          0.0          0.0:          7.5     26250.0
total couts intrants      :                                                                    1032(o.v'
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                 2 
couts fiYes  FiAIAN       I    F:HA      F'EIPL,         F/HA       F/E(PL.
entretien eoopes     30000.0
entretien reseau     27000.0
pest:on tau            3000.0 :
total                b0000.0:                   9t300.0 1                         :
couts energ:e             t    20000.0      30000.') :       O.o          0.0
total couts eau           :                         :                                          120Q00.0
.ECANISATION                :                         :                                                   t
FiHA        :               F /EPL,   :               FIEXPL.
a  offset             22240.0:                   33360.o                       0.0                           :
b  billonnage          10704.0                           :
c  Ora:s:ea            3190.i:
d  battage              tr62800:                39420.0 :                     0.0 I
total coUt  canusation:                     72190.v :                     v.o0:                  2780.1)
total Ctout Produttion    .                         :                         :                295980.0 :
PPODuCTIDu                  .
COUT'UNITE  :QUANTITEuiA   O:EIPL.   :QUANIITE,RA  tJEXPL.   : diEIPL.            COUT
PADDY                   85.0:      4500.        675.'.:         0.9 i  .0    t.:        oT,to.o    573150.0P
50R6H0                  70.0:                          :                         :         O           0 .0 
HAIS                    10.0                                                               Q ;  :  0.0  0.t t
TOKATE                  29.0 :                         .                                   I 0.0       0.0
PAILLE                  10.0 I     3500-.       5250.u o        0.0          0,0 :     525t.0      525Pst.0
Total Valeur Production                             1                                          62b25(I.0
PEVENOU  RUT/EIPL.             :                         :                                          330270.0 -
TEMPS DE TRAYAUX               :JCURS/HA    J      EURSlEPL. tJOURSINA    JOLRS/EIPL. :JODURStEPL.AIN        I
PADDY             i2e.10 v    IO.( I          0.0         0.v :       IBo.0
S5R6O0    :                     0.0o                       0.0:        0.0
PAIS      t                     0.0:                      0.0:          0.0
tONATE                          0.0°                      0.0:          0.0
REVENO PUTtJoUR.                                         : t                                          1834.8



- 104 -
ANNEX VI-2
SENEGAL                                      Page  10 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
EXPLOITATION TYPE R25RII NIV   $SORSlN  .                                                    AS3          t
HIVEM*6E        O       SC                      TOTAL:MA
INTRAITS
COUTIUNITE  :GEMITITEIHA   0IEIPL.  iGUANTITE/HA   0'EIPL.   I dIEIPL.         COOT
PFHOSPATE AN            100.0 2      100.0       150.0 t      100.0       150.0 t      300.0     30000.0
AREE                     75.0        150.0       225.0 t       75.0       112.5 :      337.5     25312.5:
CHLORURE K               93.0 a       50.0        75.0 a       50.0        75,0 I      150.0      13950.0
a                         a                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.Oia 
t                                         t                    O                            t                        |0.0
I          SEIENCE£ Rll             100.0 t      140.0       210.0 t        0.0         0.0 t      210.0    21000.0
t          SEIEIICES IAIS           120.0 t                    0.0 :        0.0         0.0 I        0.0         0.0
SE£ENCES 50610G         120.0 I                    0.0 I       20,0        30.0 t       30.0       3600.0
SEIEICES TOOATE       10000.0 t                    0.0 I        0,0         0.0 :        0.0         0.0
FURADAJ                 760.0 t       15.0        22.5 t        0.0         0.0 t       22.5      17100.0
£          PROPNYL T               3500.0 t        5.0         7.5 t        2.5         3.8 t       11.3    39375.0
total couts intrants     :                        t                        t               150337.5 a
ttt
I               touts Mits  FIHA/AN       t   E/HA       F/EIPL.   t   FIHA       F/EIPL.
entretben poapas     30000,0 S
-ntreten rsnNu       27000.0 a                        :
I           qstion au              30000                                                                             t
total                60000.0 1                90000.0a                     0.0 -
couts mnrgie             a    20000.0    30000.0 a    10000,0      1000.0
total couts eau          t                                                 a               135000.0
nECAHISATION               t                        a                        *
F/HA        a              F/EIPL.                  FiEIPL.   a
a o44s,t              22240.0 %                33300.0                      0,0
a bitlonnaig          10704.0                                                   s
c  fraisage           31900.0 a
d battage             26290.0 a                39420.0                      0.0
t                                                                 ts                                
total cout ucanisation                    72790.0 :                    0.0 a                72780.0
Total Cout Production    t                        I                        t               358WI75:
:             PRODUCTION                  t                        t                        t
a                             COUTIUNITE  zOUIANTIFE/NA   QIEIPL.   WAMTITE/HA  ilEUPL.   I 0/EIPL.          C0lT    a
PADDY                  85.0       4500.0      6750.0 t        0.0         0.0 s    6750.0   573750.0
SIIRHO6                70.0 t                        :    2500.0       3750.0 :    3750.0   262500.0
IAIS                   70,0                          a        0.0         0,0 t        0.0         0,0 :
TOIATE                 29.0 a                        a        0,0         0,0 a        0.0         0.0
PAILLE                 10.0 :    3500.0       5250.0:      3500.'      5250.0 t    10500.0    105000.0
Total Valour Production a                                                                  941250.0
t                             ~~~~~~~~~a                *                         I                        a
REVENU BRUt/EIPl. E                                                             :                53132.5:
TEIPS DE TRAVAUI              JOIRMS/HA    JOURV/EPL. JOURSM/A    JOURS/EIPL. JWOURS/EIP.LIAN
t                              PADDY      I      120.0       190.0 I        0.0         0.0 a
tSOSO    t                     0,0:        & 0.0       90.0 a
Ni        a                    0.0:                     0.0 t
TOHTE                          0.0: 0l0t
REVENU SRUh/JDUR.                                      t                        a      270.0      2159.0
a                                         a_                       a.... *. _                                _       a  _-... __-.....



- 105 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page  11  of  25
SENEGAL : Projet Irrigation IV
:EXPLOITATION TYPE R3:RIZ HIV.SS/PP t RIZ CSC. i.c   0.6                                           AS4
HIVERUA6E               CSC                        TOTAL/AN
INTRANTS
COUT/UNITE  :QUANTITE/HA   Q/EXPL.   :OUANT TE/HA   O/EXPL.   : O/EXPL.             COUT    :
:PHOSPHATE AN             100.0 :       100.0        150.0 :      100.0         90.0 :       240.0     24000.0 :
:UREE                      75.0 :       150.0        225.0 :      150.0        135.0 :       360.0     27000.0 :
;CHLORURE K                93.0 :        50.0         75.0 :       50.0         45.0 :       120.0     11160.0 :
:SEHENCES RIZ             100.0 :       140.0        210.0 :      140.0        126.0 :       336.0     33600.0 :
:FURADAN                  760.0 :        15.0         22.5 :        15.0        13.5 :        36.0     21360.0 :
:PROPANYL T              3500.0 :         5.0          7.5 :        5.0          4.5 :        12.0     42000.0 :
Total    :                                                                     165120.0
EAU
couts fixes    f/ha/an   :    f/ha        f/expl.   :    f/ha        f/expl.   :              f/expl./an
: entretien pospes      30000.0 :                          :
: entretien reseau      27000.0 :                          :
: gestion eau            3000.0 :                          :
: total                 60000.0 :                 90000.0
couts energie             :    20000.0      30000.0       20000.0      18000.0
total couts eau                                                                                 130Q00.0
; ECANISATION
FIHA        :               F/EXPL.                    F/EXPL.
:a  offset              22240.0 :                 33360.0
:b  billonnage          10704.0 :
:c  fraisage            31900.0 :                          :
:d  battage             26280.0 :                 39420.0 :                  23652.0
total cout oecanisation  :                  72780.0 :                  23652.0                   96432.0
Total Cout Production                                                                           399552.0
PRODUCTION
COUT/UNITE  :OUANTITE/HA   O/EXPL.   :QUANTITE/HA   O/EXPL.   :  O/EXPL.           COUT
: PADDY                    95.0 :      5000.0      7500.0 :      5000.0       4500.0 :    12000.0   1020000.0
:PAILLE                    10.0 :      3900.0      5850.0 :      3900.0       3510.0 :     9360.0      93600.0
Total Valeur Production  :                                                                     1113600.0
:REVENU BRUT/EXPL.              :                          :                                          714048.0
:TEMPS DE TRAVAUX               :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPL. :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPL. :JOURS/EXPL./AN
PADDY     :       120.0       180.0 :       120.0        108.0         288.0
;REVENU ORUT/JOUR.                                                                                      2479.3
:                                                                                                                .----



- 106 -                                   AdMX VI-2
Page 12 of 25
SENE6AL : Projet Irrigation IY
:EXPLOITATION TYPE R4:RIZ HIV.SS/PP + RIZ CSC REP.  i.c.- 0.6                                         AS5
HIVERNA8E                CSC                        TOTAL/AN
INTRANTS
COUTIUNITE  :GUANTITE/HA   Q/EXPl.   :OUANTITE/HA   G/EXPL.   :  Q/EXPL.              COUT
:PHOSPHATE AN              100.0 :       100.0        15.0           100.0         90.0 :       240.0      24000.0
:UREE                       75.0 :       150.0        225.0 :        150.0        135.0 :       360.0      27000.0
:CHLORURE k                 93.0 :        50.0         75.0 :         50.0         45.0 :       120.0      11160.0
;SEMENCES Rll              100.0 :       140.0        210.0 :         40.0         36.0 :       246.0      24600.0
:FURADAN                   160.0 :        15.0         22.5 :         15.0         13.5 :        36.0      27360.0
:PROPANYL T               3500.0 :         5.0          7.5 :          0.0          0.0:          7.5      26250.0
Total    :                           :                           :                140370.0
EAU
couts fixes    f/ha/an           f/ha       f/expl.         f/ha       f/expl.   :               f/expl./an
entretien pospes       30000.0 :                           :                          :
entretien reseau       27000.0 :
qestion eau             3000.0
total                 60000.0 :                   90000.0
couts energie              :    20000.0       30000.0 :    20000.0       18000.0
total couts eau            :                                                                       138000.0
NECANISATION                 :
F/HA         :               FIEXPL.   :                 F/E/PL.   :
la  offset              22240.0 :
:b  billonnage          10704.0 :
:c  fraisage            31900.0 :                   47850.0 :
:d  battage             26280.0 :                   39420.0 :                  23652.0
total cout secanisation  :                   87270.0 :                   23652.0 :                 110922.0
Total Cout Production      :                          :                           :                389292.0
PRODUCTION
COUT/UNITE  :QUANTITE/HA   O/EXPL.   ;OUANTITE/HA   O/EXPL.   : O/EXPL.               COUT
PADDY                    85.0 :      5000.0       7500.0 :      5000.0       4500.0 :    12000.0   1020000.0
PAILLE                   10.0 :      3900.0       5850.0 :      3900.0       3510.0 :       936(.0      93600.0
: :tal Valetr Production  :                            :                                          1113600.0
:REVENU BRUT/EXPL.                                                                                        724308.0
:TEMPS DE TRAVAUX                :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPL. :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPL. :JOURS:EXPL./AN
PADDY      :      120.0        180.0 :        160.0        144.0 :       324.0
:REVENU BRUTIJOUR.               :                           :                          ;                   2235.5
:                                :                           :                          :--
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 



- 107 -
'SENEGAL                                     AINTEX VI-2
IRRIGATION IV  PROJECT                                    Page 13 of 25
EPOITA1ION TYPE R)l: Rll HIV.501 / TOHATE CSF 50                                            AS6
HIVERNAGE              CSF                       TOTAL/AN
INTRANTS
COUT/UNITE  :OUANTITEtHA   QIEtPL.   :GUANTITE,HA   Q/EXPL.   t Q/EXPL.         CDIUT
PHOSPHATE Al            100.0 :       100.0        75.0 t      30.0        225.0:        300.0     30000.0
UREE                     75.0 :      150.0        112.5:       225.0       168.8 :      281.3      21093.8
CHLORURE r               93.0 P       50.0         31.5 :      375.0       281.3 2       318.8     29643.8
SEHENCES RIl            100.0:        140.0       105.0          0.0         0.0         105.0     10500.0
SElEICES HlAtS          120.0 t                     0.0                      0.0 :         0.0         0.0:
SEIENCES SORfHO         120.0                       0.0 2                    0.0 2        0.0          0.0
SEIENCES TONATE       10000.0                       0.0 :        0.2         0.2 2        0.2       1500.0
FURADAN                 760.0:         15.0        11.3         30.0        22.5 :        33.8     25650.0 t
PROPANYL T             3500.02         5.0          3.82         0.0         0.0           3.8     13125.0:
total couts intrants     :                         I                        :                131512.5:
EAU              .            .                                               t
t                        t
touts 41%es  FHAI:AN          FIHA      FIEXPL.  t   F/HIA        FIEIPL.  :                          t
entretien poepes     30000.0 2                         :                        t
entretien reseau     27000.0                           :                                                  t
gestion eau           3000.0                           :                        :
total                60000.0:                  45000.t t                        2                         t
couts enerqie            :   20000.0       15000.0:    18000.0      13500.0                           :
total couts eau          :                         :                        :                 13500.0 
3ECANISATION
2~~~~~~~~ 2
F,HA                       FIEIPL.   2               FIEXPL.   2
a  offset             22240.0:                  16680.0 t                16680.0                           :
b  billonnage         10704.0                                             8028.0 2                         2
c  fraisage           31900.0 2                         2
d  battage            26280.0:                  19710.0                          :
total cout letanisation:                   36390.0                  24708.0 t                 61098.0 :
Total Cout P,oduction    :                         2                        t               266110.5 2
PRODUCTION
COUTIUNITE  igUANTITEiHA   Q/EIPL.   :OUANTITE/HA   QIEXPL.   2 Q/EXPL.         COUI  t
PADOD                  85.0 t     4500.0       3375.0 2        0.0         0.0 t     3375.0   286875.0:
SOR6H0                 70.0 t                                                  2        0.0         0.0:
MAl$                   70.0:                          2                        :        0.0         0.0 :
fOlATE                 29.0 2                        :    25000.0      18750.0 t    19150.0   543750.0 t
PAILLE                 10.0 :     3500.0       2625.0                          t     2625.0      26250.0
Total Valeur Production                            :                        t               856875.0 2
REVEHU 8RUV/EXPL.             t                         :                                        590764.5 2
TEMPS DE IRAVAUI              :JOURSIIIA    JOURS/EIPL. :JOURSIHA    J0URSIE1PL. EJOURS:EIPL.aN:
PADD9     :      120.0        90.0:         0.0          0.0:        90.u             2
SOO8     2                        2                     0.0t         0.0
HAS       2                                              0.0          0.0
TOMATE    2                        2      180.0        135.0 2      135.0
REVENU BRUT/JOUR.             2                         2                        2      225.0       2625.6 t
t- - - -- -- - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - 2
…2*.                          



- 108 -
ANNEX VI-2
SENEGAL                                  Page  14 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
:---                                                               ------------------
EIPLOITATION TYPE N+T i HAIS HIY. / rONATE CSF                                                  AS7
2                                                  HIVERNA8E               CSF                       TOTALIAN           2
INIRANIS
COUIT/UNITE  :QUANTITEMA   u/EXPI.   :OUANTITE/HA   QIEXPL.   :  QIEXPL.         CDUI:
2                                          :                         :                         : 
PHOSPHATE M              100.0        100.0        150.0 1      300.0       450.0         600.0     60000.0 I
2            JUREE                    75.0 2      150.')       225.0 2      225.0        337.5:       562.5     42187.5 1
:           CHLORURE K                93.0:        50.0         75.0:       375.0       562.5         637.5     59287.5 t
:           SEHENCES R1              100.0:         0.          0.0:          0.0          0.0:         0.0         0.0 
:           SEHENCES HAIS            120.(         30.0         45,0 i                     0.0 :       45.0      5400.0
:           SEHENCES SORSHO          120.0                       0.0 2                     0Q0 0.0                  0.0:
2           SEHEKCES TONATE        10000.0                       0.0          o 0,2       0,3           0.3      3000.0 a
FURADAN                 760.0 t        15.0        22.5 t        300         45.0          67.5     51300.0
:           PROPANYL I              3500.0          2.5          3.8          0.0         0.0           3.8     13125.0
:                total cwots intrants      2                         :                         2               234300.0 2
EAU
:                                          :                         :                         :                        2
:                couts fixes  F/HA/AN      I    F/0H      FMEMPL.   :    F/HA       F/EXPL.   t                         2
entretien poipes     30000.0 2                                                                             2
entretien reseau     27000.0:                          :
:              sgntion eau          t000.0 I                         2
total                60000.0 t                 90000.0                           : 2
:cots energie             :    12000.0     18000.0       18000.0     27000.0                           2
total cwots eau          :                                                                    135000.v:
:              MECANISATION
:                             FiHa         :              f/EFPL.                   F/EXPL.   :                         2
:           a  offset              22240.0                   333e0.0                  33360.0                           2
:           b  billonnage          10704.0                  16056.0:                  1605b.0
c  traisage           319000                                                      2
2           d  battage             20280.0                           :                         2                        :
total tout ecanisation  2                  49416.0 z                 49416.0                   98832.0
Total Coot Produttion    2                                                                    468132.0:
PRODUCTION                  2                                                  22
COUT/UNITE  :OUANtITE/HA   0/EPL.   :QUANIITEIHa   DIEXPL.  :  0/EjPL.           COWT 
PADDY                  85.0:                                                             0.0          0.0:
SOR6hO                 70.0 t                                               0.0          0.0          0.0
2             HAIS                    70.02      3000.0      450v.0           0.0         0.02       4500.0    315000.0:
:             TOHATE                  29.0                           :    25000.0     37500.0       37500.0   1087500.0 2
PAILLE                 10.0                                     0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
2                Totai Valeur Production  2                          2                                        1402500.0 
REVENU BRUItEIPL.              :                         2                                         934368.0:
TEHPS DE TRAVAU                :JWDPSHA    JOURS'EXPL. tJOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPL. WJOURSIEIPL./AN             2
S                               PADDI      :        V.0          0.0 2        0,0         0.0 2         0.              2
:  50RBhO    :                  u.V:                     O.v t          .0
HAIS      2      12u. !       IBO.l                      0.0 2       1I0.0             :
2                                IDHATE    :                    0.0         180.0       270.0:        270.0             2
2           PEVEHU BPuTJOU.                2                         :                         2      450.0      2076.4
2:---                                                                                                                    2.:



-109 -
SENEGAL                                 ANNEX VI-2
Page  15 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
EXPLOITATION TYPE RItRI! Hiv. OS PROJET                                                    ASt
HIVERNASE             CSC                      TOTAL/AN
INTRANTS
COUT/UNITE  :GUANTITEIHA   QtEIPL.   3QUANTITE/HA   OiEXPL.  t Q/EIPL.       COUT    2
PHOSPHATE AN           100.0 t      100.0       150.0         0.0          0.0 t     150.0    15000.0 t
UREE                    75.0:       150.0       225.0 2        0.0         0.0 t     225.0    16875.0 2
CHLORURE K              93.0:        50.0        75.0 t        0.0         0.0 I      75.0      6975.0 2
SENENCES RIl           100.0        140.0       210.0 2       0.0          0.0 2     210.0    21000.0
SEHENCES HAIS          120.0;                     0.0 I                   0.0          0.0         0.0
SEHENCES SORSHO        120.0 :                    0.0 I                   0.0          0.0         0.0 2
SE/ENCES TONATE      10000.0 :                    0.0                     0.0          0 0.0       0.0
FURADAN                160.0 t       15.0        .2.5        0.0          0.0        22.5    17100.0:
PROPANIL T            3500.0:         5.0         7.5 :        0.0         0.0 t       7.5    26250.0
total couts intrants    :                        2                        2              103200.0 2
EAU                                                2
..... .......~2                                                      *                        2   
couts fixes F/HA/AN          F/HA      FIEtPL.   :   F/HA       F/EIPL.  2                        :
entretien pospes    30000.0                                                  : 2
entretten reseau    27000.0: 2                                                t 
gestton eau          3000.0 2                        I                       :                        2
total               60000.0:                 90000.0                          2
couts energte           2   20000.0    30000.0           0.0          0.0                         :
total couts au             :                                                             120000.0:
NECANISATION              2
F/HA                      F'EIPt.   I              F/EIPL.   2
a offset             22240,0 2                33&!.O                       0.0 2                       2
b billonnage         10704.0 2                        2
c fra2sage           319000 :
a battage            26280.0 :                39420.0                     0.0 2
total Cout  rcaiiseot2ton                72780.0 2                   0.0 :                72780.0
Total Cout Production                            2                       t               295980.0 
PPODUCTION                                                                 2
COUTIUNITE  :QUANTITEHA   Q/EXPL.   QllANTINEAHA   Q/EXPL.  2 Q/EIPL.        COUT 
:~~~~~~ :                                                          2 
PADDV                 65.0 :    3500.0       5250.0         0.0         0.0:      5250.0   446250.0:
SOR6H0                10.0                          2 :                              0.0         0.0t
NAIS                  70.02                         :                       2        0.0         0.02
TONATE                29.02                                                          ('.0        0.0 :
PAILLE                10.0 2    3000.0       4500.0 t       0.0         0.0       4500.0    45000.02
Total Valeur Production                          t                       :               491250.0
REVEND BRUT/EXPL.            2                        2                                       195270.02
TEIPS DE TRWVAUX              JOUSHA   JOURS/EIPL. iJUSIHA    JOUS/EXPL. WJOUR9EIPL./AN                2
PADDY    :      120.0       180.0          0.0         0.0 2      180.0
SOgmH    2                    0.0                      0.020       0.0             2
NAIS     2                    0.02                     0,0I        0.0             2
TOIUTE    t                   0.0 I                    0.0 I       0.0             2
REVENI1 ERUT/JOUR.           :                        2                       t      180.0      1084.8 2
…… ……_ _ .._    . _          _     - _         - _   - - __,           - ._    _   - ---------…… - …



- 110 -
SENEGAL                                      ANNEX VI-2
Page 16 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    --  - - - - - - - - - - - -    -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -   .. --.
aEXPLOITATION TYPE R3R    HIV.SS/PP * RI1 CSC SS PROJET                                         Ass
HIVERNA9E               CSC                      TOTAL/AN
:     INTRANTS                                                                                               s
COOT/UNITE  aOUtANTITE/HA   Q/EXPL.  asUANTITE/HA   I/EXPL.   i QUEIPL,          COUT    a
aPHOSPHATE AN            100,0 I       100,0       150.0 s       100.0       150.0 i      300.0      30000.0:
:UREE                     75.0         150.0       225.0 i       150.0       225.0        450.0      33750.0 3
:CHLORURE K               93.0 a        50.0        75.0 a       50.0         75.0        150.0      13950.0:
:SEIENCES RIZ            100.0 a       140.0       210.0         140.0       210.0        420.0      42000.0 s
aSENENCES HAIS           120.0 a                     0.0 I                     0,0 I        0.0          0.0 :
sSEIENCES SORSHO         120.0:                      0.0 I                     0.0 I         0.0         0.0 s
:SENENCES TOIATE       10000.0 I                     0.0 :                     0.0 a         (.0         0.0 I
:FURADAN                 760.0 a        15.0        22.5:         15.0        22.5         45.0      34200.0 i
aPROPANYL T             3500.0:          5.0         7.5           5.0         7.5 :        15.0     52500.0:
total couts intrants     :                         :                                          206400.0
:   EAU
I     couts fixes  FIHA/AN      I    FMA       FIEXPL.   :    F/HA       FIEXPL.   :                         5
entretien poapes     30000.0                           :                         :                         a
entretien reseau     27000.0 a
gestion eau           3000.0 a                                                                             s
total                60000.0                   9000.0                        0.0
I     couts energie            :    20000.0      30000.0 a    20000.0      30000.0                           :
total couts eau          a                         :                         :                150000.0 t
a  NECANISATION                a
FIHA                       F flEIPL.                 F f/EIPL.   a
:a  o4fset             22240.0                       0.0 a                 33360.0 a
.b  billonndge         10704.0 a                                                   :                         a
:c  fraisage           31900.0:
:d  battage            26280.0 a                 39420.0                   39420.0                           a
total cout secanisation                    39420.0                   72780.0                  112200.0:
total Cout Production    a                         :                         a                468600.0a
PRODUCTION                  a                        a
a                  CWOITIUNITE :QUANTITEMHA   Q/EXPL.   agUANTITE/HA Q/EIPl.   a  Q/EXPL.            COUT    a
a  PADDY                  05.0 a      3500.0      5250.0        3500.0      5250.0      10500.0  8S2500.0
a SOREHO                  70.0 a                         :                                  00           0.0O
a NAIS                    70.0                           a                         a        0.0          0.0:
a  TONATE                 29.0                                                              0.0          0.:
a  PAILLE                 10.0 a      3000.0      4500,0 a     3000.0       4500.0a      9000.0      90000.0 a
:     Total valeur Production  a                         :                                          982500.0a
;REVENU  0RJt.cL.               a                                                  a :              513900.0 a
:TEIPS DE IRAVPUJI              JOURSM/A    JOURS/EXPL. aJOURS/11A    JWURS/EIPL. WJOURSIEIPL/AN             a
a                              a                                                   a
a                    PADDY     :       120.0       190.0 a       120.0       180.0 a      360,0
t                    SORSHO    a                     0.0:                      0.0:         0,0              a
NAIS      a                     0.0                      0.0 a         0.0              a
t                    TONATE    a                     0.0                       0.0 :        0.0              I
S                               a                        a                         a                         a
aREVENU BRUT/JOUR.              :                         a                        a                  1427.5 a
a …            ……-…                         ……-…                      …- t                                   t



- III -
SENEGAL                                   ANNEX  VI-~.
Page  11  of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
.-----------    -----            . .  X*.. . . ._... ....... .............. .  .............
EXPLOITATION TYPE R/t: RUl HIV.50t / TOMATE CSF 50t SS PROJEI                                   ASIO
HIVERNA6E              CSF                       TOTAL/AN
INtRANTS
COUT/UNITE  IOUANTITE/HA  QIEIPL.   iQUANTITE/HA Q/EXPL.   : GIEXPL.             COUT
I       HIVERNA6E        I    CSC                        tOTAL/AN            t
PHOSPHATE AN             100.0 I      100.0        75.0 i       200.0       150.0 2       225.0     22500.0:
UREE                     75.0 t       150.0       112.5 i       150.0       112.5         225.0     16075.0:
CHLORURE N               93.0:         50.0        37.5 t       250.0       187.5         225.0     20925.0 i
2                         :                        :                         I
SEIENCES Rll            100.0:        140.0       105.0           0.0         0.0         105.0     10500.0 t
SEIENCES MIS             120.0:                     0.0                       0.0 2         0.0         0.0 I
SEIENCES SOR6H0         120.0                        0.0 2                    0.0 2         0.0         0.0 I
SEIENCES TONATE       10000.0                       0.0 :         0.2         0.2 :         0.2      1500.02
FURADAN                 760.0 t        15.0        11.3          30.0        22.5          33.8     25650.0:
PROPANHL T             3500.0:          5.0         3.82          0.0         0.02          3.8     13125.0,
total couts intrants     : I                                                 :                111075.0
EAU                         :
2:                                           2
couts fixes  FiHAIAN          F/HA       F/EXPl.        F/HA       F/EXPL.   2
entretien poepes      0000.0:                          :                         2                         2
entretien reseau     27000.0:                           :
gest2on eau           3000.0                                                     2                         2
total                60000.0 s                 45000.0                           Z
couts energie             :   20000.0      15000.0       18000.0     13500.0                           :
total coots eau                       :                                      :                 73500,0
HECANISATION                :                         2                        2
F/HA                        F/EXPL.   :              FEXPL.   :                           :
a  offset             22240.0 :                 16680.0 :                 16680.0 t                         :
b  billonnage         10704.0 2                          :                 8029.0 2
c  4raisage           31900.0:
d  battage            26280.0 :                 19710.0 2
total cout aecanisation  2                 36390.02                  24708.0 2                 61098.0:
Total Cout Production    :                         :                                          245673.0
PRODUCTION                  :                         :                        :
COUTPUNITE  tQUIANTITE/HA   91EIPL.   :QUANTITE/HA   SIEXPL.  2  Q/EIPL.         COUT
PADDY                  85.0        3500.e      2625.0:                          :     2t25.0    223125.0:
SOR6H0                 70.0                            :                                 0.0 0.0
MIS                    70.0:                                        :                     0,0         0.0:
TONATE                 29.0 :                         :    15000.0      11250.0:    11750.0    326250.0:
PAILLE                 10.0        3000.0      4500.0 :                     0.0 2     4500.0      45000.0:
Tota) Valeur Production:                           :                                          594375.0 
REVENU BRUT/EIPL.              :                         :                                         348702.0
TEIIS DE TRAVAUX               :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EXPl, :JOURS/HA    JOURS/EIPL. 2JOURS/EIPL./AN
PADDY            1 t20.0       0.02          0.0          0.0 I       90.0
SOR6HO    2                         2                    0.0:          0,0
MIS                                 2                     0.0:         0.0
TONATE    :                                160.0       120.0 a       120.0             2
REVEKJ BRUT/JOUR.              2                         2                        2       210.0      1660.5
…--...--            .__-              .     -…                       --------------             -    --



- 112 -
ENEGAL                                 ANNEX VI-2
ItRGATION  IV PROJECT                               Pagel$ of 25
EXPLOITATION TYPE NlT I RAIS / TONATE CSF 89 MOJET                                           SII         t
I                                                                                                                   2
HIVERNAIE              CSF                      TOTAL/MI
INTRAlTS
COTIUNITE  tGUANTITE/HA   O/ElPL.  iSUANTITE/HA   OtEIPL.  t   /EIPL.         COUT
s                                                 I t   VERilAOE        CSC                I    TOIAL/iAN
PHOSPHATE An            100.0 2      100.0       150.0 a      200.0       300.0 1     450.0    45000.0
UREE                     75,0        150.0       225.0 t      150.0       225.0       450.0     33750.0 t
t          CHLORURE K               93.0 t       50.0        75.0 :      250.0       375.0 2      450.0    41850.0
t          SENEICES RIl            100.0 t        0.0         0.0 I        0.0         0.0 a        0.0         0.0 t
a          SEIIEICES NAlS          120.0 t       30.0        45.0 t                    0.0 t       45.0      5400.0
SENECES SORSHO          120.0                      0.0 2                    0.0 t        0.0         0.0
t          SEIEKCES TONATE       10000.0 t                    0.0 t        0.2         0.3 t        0.3      3000.0 t
t          fURADAN                 760.0 t       15.0        22.5 t       30.0        45.0 2       67.5    51300.0 t
t          PROPANYL T             3500.0          2.5         3.8 t        0.0         0.0 t        3.8     13125.0t
2                TOTAL COUTS                                      2 t                                      193425.0 t
2             EAU                        2                        2                        2                        2
... ... ...                                                                          tt
COUTS FIIES       F/HAIAN     2   F/HA       FIEIPL,   t   F/HA      FIEJPL.                            2
2           entretien poepes     30000.0                          I                        I                        2
s           entretien resetu     27000.0 2                        t                                                 2
I           gqtion eau            3000.0:                         2                        2                        2
t           total                60000.0 t                90000.0                                                   t
2          CWtOI ENERSIE                      12000.0     18000.0 t    18000.0    27000.0 t                         2
TOTAL COUTS EAU               2                        2                       S                35000.0 2
2             RECANISATION               2                        2
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                             1     
t          COUTS             FtHA                       F f/ElPL.                F f/EXPL.  t
2          a offset              22240.0                  33360.0 2                33360.0 2
2tb bDllonnale                   10104.0 *605!.0 t                                 i54.;
2          c traisage            31900.0                          I 2                      2
2t         d  battage            26200.0 t                        2                        t                        2
t                                        2                49416.0 t                49416.0 2                98832.0 t
TOTAL CO2UTS 0  PRODUCTION    2                       2                        2               427257.: t
t                            COUT/UIlTE  taANTITEI/HA   O/EIPL.   iQUANTITE/HA    /EXPL.  s GIEIPL.         CoUT 
2            PADDY                  85.0 2                                 0.0         0.0 I        0.0         0.0 2
*             5055110               70.0t                         t                    0.0t         0.0         0.0:
s            IAMIS                  95.0       2000.0      3000.0 t        0.0         0.0 I    3000.0   285000.0:
I            TONATE                 26.0 s                             15000.0    22500.0 s   22500.0   585000.0 2
t            PAILLE                 10.0                                   0.0         0.0 I        0.0         0.0 I
2          TOTAL VALEUR PRODUCTION       2                        *                        2               870000.0 a
t          REVEIDIRUTt/EXPL.             t                        2                        2442743.0 a
s          IEIPS Of TRAVAUX              sJOURSII    OURS/EXPL. iJOURSIHA    JOURS/EIPL. JOURS/EIPL./AN 
2                              PADDY     2        0.0         0.0 2        0.0         0.0 t        002
2:805810    I                                                 0..  I                   0.0 I        0.0
2PIS      t      120.0      1I0.0I                      0.0 2     180.0
s                              tOIAt!    s                    0.0 2      160.0       240.0 2      240.0             2
2          REVEIIU ERUT/JWR.             2                        2                        s      420.0      1054.2 2
-…-.. ........2 _ - . - ._ _ . _ _ . s



- 113 -
ANNEX VI-2
SENEGAL                                       Page  19 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
RS12s
REVENUS BRUt8 avec projet                                                                                 s
RI          R2           R3          R4          R/T         T4N      £
par expIoitation                330270.0    583132.5    703900.0    810660.0       590764.5   934368.0
par jour de travail                 1834.8      2159.8        2177.5      1930.1       2625.6      2076.4
REVENUS BRUTS sans projet
par exploitation                195270.0                 513900.0                  348702.0   442743.0
par jour de travail               1084.9                    1427.5                   1660.5      104.2
- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -.-  -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -



- 114 -
SENEGAL                                   ANNEX VI-2
Page 20 of 25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SURFACES CULTIVEESYSTEME DE CULTUREIAN (hectares)                                                  AS13        a
Al          A2          A3         A4          AS          A6         A7        A-A20   s
BOUNDOOUN
RI            1140.0        976.0     1312.0      1476.0     1640.0      1312.0      1312.0     1312.0
R2               0.0        164.0      328.0       492.0      328.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
R3               0.0                               246.0      656.0      1312.0      1312.0     J312.0 1
R4               0.0                               246.0      656.0       656.0       656.0      656.0 1
THIA6AR
RI             600.0        620.0      336.0       449.0      448.0       448.0       448.0      448.0
R2               0.0         t.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
R3               0.0         0.0       252.0       336.0      336.0       336.0       336.0      336.0 t
R4               0.0          0.0      252.0       336.0      336.0       336.0       336.0      336.0
DA6ANA
RI             970.0        882.0      794.0       792.0      880.0      1032.0      1032.0     1032.0
R2               0.0         88.0      176.0       264.0      176.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
R3               0.0         0.0         0.0       132.0      352.0       352.0       352.0      352.0
g4               0.0         0.0         0.0       132.0      352.0       528.0       528.0      520.0
R+T             520.0       490.0       356.0       246.0      164.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
T+N               0.0        40.0       164.0       369.0      656.0       668.0      668.0       669.0
TOTAL RI           2710.0      2479.0      2442.0     2716.0      2968.0      2792.0     2792.0      2792.0
TOTAL R2              0.0       252.0       504.0       756.0      504.0         0.0        0.0         0.0:
TOTAL R3              0.0         0.0       252.0      714.0      1344.0      2000.0     2000.0      2000.0 s
TOTAL R4              0.0         0.0       252.0       714.0     1344.0      1520.0     1520.0      1520.0
TOTAL R+T           520.0       480.0       356.0      246.0       164.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL T+M             0.0        40.0       164.0       369.0      656.0       668.0      668.0       668.0
AS14
RENDERENTS/SYSTENE DE CULTURE/AN (kgtha)
Al          A2          A3          4          A5          Ab    A     7        48-A20 :
RIZ                                                                                                         a
RI            4500.0       4500.0     4500.t)     4500.0     4500.0      4500.0      4500.0     4500.0
R2            4500.0       4500.0     4500.0      4500.0     4500.0      4500.0      4500.0     4500c0 
1R3           9000.0      9000.0      9000.0      9000.0     9000.0      9000.0      9000.0     9000.0
R4            9000.0       9000.0     9000.0      9000.0     9000.0      9000.0      9000.0     9000.0
R+T            2250.0       2250.0     2250.0      2250.0     2250.0      2250.0      2250.0     2250.0
SQR8HO
R2            2500.0       2500.0     2500,0      2500.0     2500.0      2500.0      2500.0     2500.0
TONATE                                                                                                      a
R+T           12500.0      12500.0    12500.0    12500.0    12500.0    12500.0    12500.0    12500.0:
l+H           25000.0     25000.0    25000.0    25000.0    25000.0    25000.0    25000.0    25000.0
IIAIS 
T+H            3000.0      3000.0      3000.0      3000.0     3000.0      3000.0      3000.0     3000.0:
PAILLE
RI            3500.0       3500.0     3500.0      3500.0     3500.0      3500.0      3500.0     3500.0 a
R2            3500.0       3500.0     3500.0      3500.0     3500.0      3500.0      3500.0     3500.0:
R3            7000.0       7000.0     7000.0      7000.0     7000.0      7000.0      7000.0     7000.0s
R4            7000.0       7000.0     7000.0      7000.0     7000.0      7000.0      7000.0     7000.0
R41            1750.0       1750.0     1750.0      1750.U      1750.0     1750.0      1750.0     1750.0 s
…------I---------------------------------------- I----------------------------------------------------------------



-  115 -
ANNEX VI-2
SENEGAL                                   Page  21 of  25
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
PRODUCTION I AN (tonnes)                                                                                 AS15 
Al           A2          A3           A4          AS          A6           A7        A8-A20
RIl
RI            12195.0       11151.0     10989.0     12222.0      13356.0     12564.0     12564.0      12564.0
R2                0.0       1134.0       2269.0      3402.0       2268.0         0.0         0.0         0.0 s
R3                0.0           0.0      2268.0      6426.0      12096.0     18000.0     18000.0     18000.0 s
R4                0.0          0.0       2268.0      6426,0      12096.0     13680.0     13680.0      13680.0 s
R+T             1170.0        1080.0       801,0       553.5        369.0         0.0         0.0         0.0 s
total riz         13365.0       13365.0     18594.0     29029.5      40185.0     44244.0     44244.0    44244.0 s
5084HO                                                                                                             I
R2                0.0        1134.0      2268.0      3402.0       2268.0         0.0         0.0          0.0 a
TONATE                                                                                                             s
RtT             6500.0        6000.0      4450.0      3075.0       2050.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Ttl                0.0        1000.0      4100.0      9225.0      16400.0     16700.0     16700.0      16700.0
total touate        6500.0        7000.0      8550.0     12300.0      18450.0     16700.0     16700.0      16700.0 s
NAIS                                                                                                               a
TsN                0.0         120.0       492.0      1107.0       1968.0      2004.0      2004.0      2004.0:
PAILLE                                                                                                             s
RI             9485.0       8673.0       8547.0      9506.0      10388.0      9772.0      9772.0      9772.0 a
R2                0.0        982.0       1764.0      2646.0       1764.0         0.0         0.0          0.0 s
R3                0.0          0.0       1764.0      4998.0      9408.0      14000.0     14000.0      14000.0
R4                0.0          0.0       1764.0      4998.0      9408.0      10640.0     10640.0     10640.0 s
total paille        9495.0        9555.0     13839.0     22148.0      30968.0     34412.0     34412.0      34412.0 s
…---------------   -…-  -  -------------------------- ------  -  -- ---  -  --------  -   -  --------------  -   - -------… ----…-----…-… -



- 116 -
ANNEX VI-2
Page 22 of 25
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
SURFACES CULTIVEES/SYSTENE DE CULTURE/AN (hectares) -sanu  projet-                                          AS16
Al           A2           A            A4          AS           A6           A7        A8-A20
BOUNDOUN
RI             1140.0        1140.0       1026.0       912.0        798.0        798.0       798.0        798.0
R3                 0.0          0.0        114.0       228.0        342.0        342.0       342.0        342.0
THIAGAR
RI              600.0         600.0        540.0       480.0        420.0        420.0       420.0        420.0 t
R3                 0.0          0.0         60.0       120.0        190.0        180.0       180.0        180.0 .
DA8ANA
RI              970.0         P'0.0        873.0       776.0        679.0        679.0       679.0        679.0 i
R3                 0.0          0.0         97.0        194.0       291.0        291.0       291.0        291.0
R+T              520.0         520.0        470.0       420.0        370.0        370.0       370.0        370.0 t
TMn                 0.0          0.0         50.0        100.0       150.0        150.0       150.0        150.0 :
TOTAL RI            2710.0        2710.0       2439.0      2168.0       1897.0       1897.0       1897.0      1897.0
TOTAL R3                0.0          0.0        271.0        542.0       813.0        813.0       813.0        813.0
TOTAL R.T             520.0        520.0        470.0        420.0       370.0        370.0        370.0       370.0
TOTAL T+H               0.0          0.0         50.0        100.0       150.0        150.0        150.0       150.0
RENDENTSISYSTERE DE CULTURE/AN (kglhi) -sans projet-                                                        ASH
Al           A2           A3           A4          A5           A6           A7        A8-A20
Rlt
RI             4000.0        3900.0       3600.0      3600.0       3500.0       3500.0      3500.0       3500.0
R3             8000.0        7800.0       7200.0      7200.0       7000.0       7000.0      7000.0       7000.0
R+T             2000.0        1950.0       1800.0       1800.0      1800.0       1800.0       1800.0      2250.0
TOHATE
R+T             10000.0       9400.0       8750.0      8150.0       7500.0       7500.0      7500.0       7500.0
t+u            20000.0       18800.0      17500.0     16300.0      15000.0      15000.0     15000.0      15000.0
NAIS
T+l             2000.0        2000.0       2000.0      2000.0       2000.0       2000.0      2000.0       2000.0 s
PAILLE
RI             3000.0        2900.0       2800.0      2600.0       2500.0       2500.0      2500.0       2500.0
R3             6000.0        5800.0       5600.0      5200.0       5000.0       5000.0      5000.0       5000.0
R+T              1500.0       1450.0       1400.0       1300.0      1250.0       1250.0       1250.0      1250.0 :
---.----------  -  ----------  -   -:--------------  -  --------------------------------------------------  -  -----------------



- 117 -
ANNEX VI-2
SENEGAL                               Page       of 25
'IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
PRODUCTION t AN (tonnes) -sans projet-                                                             ASI8
Al          A2          A3         A4          A5         A6          A7       4-A20
RIZ 
RI           10840.0      10569.0     0780.4      7804.8     6639.5      6639.5     6639.5      6639.5
R3               0.0         0.0      1951.2      3902.4     5691.0      5691.0     5691.0      5691.0 s
R+T            1040.0       1014.0      846.0       756.0      666.0       666.0      666.0       666.0
total riz        11880.0      11583.0    11577.6    12463.2    I299..5    1296.5    1296.5    12996.5 t
TONATE
R+T            5200.0      4888.0      4112.5      3423.0     2775.0      2775.0     2m.0        2775.0
TtH               0.0         0.0       875.0      1630.0     2250.0      2250.0     2250.0      2250.0 t
total touate       5200.0      4888.0      4987.5     5053.0      5025.0      5025.0     5025.0      5025.0
HAIS
TtH               0.0         0.0       100.0       200.0      300.0       300.0      300.0       300.0
PAILLE
RI            8130.0      7859.0      6829.2      5636.8     4742.5      4142.5     4742.5      4742.5 :
R3               0.0         0.0      1517.6      2818.4     4065.0      4065.0     4065.0      4065.0
RhT             780.0       754.0       658.0       546.0      462.5       462.5      462.5       462.5
total paille       8910.0      8613.0      9004.8     9001.2      9270.0      9270.0     9270.0      9270.0
… ---- --…-   ----------    -    -----------------…- -- - -   --------- -- - --…-- -I



- 118 -
SENEGAL                                     ANNEX VI-2
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT                                  Page 24 of 25
IRRIGATION IV - Equipesent et credit *oyen term -                                                                                    AS19
s
s
MATERIEL ABRICOLE
unite type             Ut     ............................................................ t      ractear resorque offset batteuse
U2  .......................... tracteur resorque offsetbilloneuse
U3     ......................... .......... tracteur reeorque fraise roues cages batteuse
U4  .............. ..........  otoculteur fraise roues palettes
8ESOINS EN CHAINES NECANISEES                                               U5      ........... . chaine traction bovine
COUT/UNITE       Al           A2          h3           A4           A5          A6
IOOvr
TYPE Ul                  11600           0           32          25            2           20           0
U2                     8800           0            3           3            3            3           0
U3                    12100           0            0            3           4            4           0
U4                     2750           0            0          24           36           48           9 
U5                      400           0            0            0         300          500           0
Ub                     3600           0            0           10          20           24          16
COUT IOOOF                                  0      397600      454700       621000       725200       57600
AVANCE IOX            0        39760        45470       62100        72520        5760
ler REND.                         0       89460       102308       139725      163170
2eae RENB.                                     0       69460       102308      139725
3eHe REND.                                                 0        89460      102308
4ene REND.                                                              0       89460
BESD1NS EN CREDIT I AN                      0      357840       319770      367133       321188     -442823
BESOINS EN CREDIT / CUIUL                   0      357840      677610      1044743      1365930      923108
-- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -



- 119 -
.ANNEX VI-2
Page 25 of 25
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
FONDS DE ROULENENT I AN -1000 frs-                                                                            AS20
Al           A2           A3           A4           As           A6           A7        A8-A20
TOTAL Rl           S34737.2      488959.0    481955.4    535921.1   595645.8    550917.4    550917.4    550917.4
TOTAL R2                0.0      60163.7    120327.5    180491.2    120327.5             0.0         0O0           0.0
TOTAL R3                0.0           0.0      78724.8    223053.6    419865.6    624800.0    624800.0    624800.0
TOTAL R4                0.0           0.0     74229.1    210315.8    395888.6    447731.2    447731.2    447731.2
TOTAL R+T           92251.6       85155.4     63156.9      43642.1      29094.7          0.0          0.0          0.0
TOtAL T+f               0.0       12483.5     51182.4    115160.5    204729.7    208474.8    208474.8    208474.8
626998.8     646761.6    869476.2   1308584.4   1755552.0   1831923.4   1831923.4   1831923.4



SENEGAL
IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
PROJET IRRIGATION IV
BOUNDOUM - THIAGAR - DAGANA
MAIN CANALS                             0    EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS
CANAUX PRINCIPAUX                            STATION DE POMPAGE EXISTANTE
SECONDARY CANALS                        0    PLANNED PUMPING STATIONS
CANAUX SECONDAIRES                           STATION DE POMPAGE EN PROJET
------ MAIN DRAINS                  a                RIVERS
COLLECTEURS                                  FLEUVES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
It.- ,s.z  '. , a   .J .. Ls... ' ,    Itrt  s frafS,en'JC't,& >v  Wo,lR-,q.anJIn.hIe--f,aIs7y
S    -.   .-.a' .   Iwr-a.-ta,'flt...l.II'n.1 n atlJr.rn31SSJOw     fr  fl,ap Pa fla
I',.:: Ipeslo' he fl'41 lW asj Pr 'r"d'.Qfln Fnoaac',vsr,al'n *1;anyfuflenf
I," Az-gea: 5s31,;. .1Jrp h-Ite .ar      a , teSS'l --"v-S 1' ar.. erŽIasA ' finC t.cl I,flt*nt
|6~3O'                                16000                                  15.30'
Atlul7sic                ~~M   A    U   R   I  T  A  N     > I A    
16030         MAUR    ITA NIA                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16 30'
Atlantic                                                          RDGN
Ocen  (BOUNDOUM   a:                       . THIAGAR
Oceann      .-          J
16P30'          l/e/1                                                        15030'
THIAGAR PERIMETER - MAIN INFRASTRUCTURE                                                         F
PERIMETRE DE THIAGAR - SCHEMA HYDRAULIQUE
/ \   XrX  /            ,       <)X/ CC223   C2-
/  <      t9cM  tV        (           /    ~~~~~~~~~~~Station P
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
A-
1 7- -ri m} \*\l 5 4//



IBRD 20027
-                                           I
r~~~~ ,,- --1                              -
-I                         ,,  ,,I  -  I                     A\
Statia'    --   2  -                  '_ _----       DAGANA PERIMETER
s! <tion A                   .}  __D __ MAIN INFRASTRUCTURE
/vo -,\X V.- .-, ,,. Th rl1;J.IoIu'y 5.L,,-T  /PERIMETRE DE DAGANA
SCHEMA HYDRAULIQUE
0   °           2
KILOMETERS
BOUNDOUM PERIMETER - MAIN INFRASTRUCTURE                                   ,
'ERIMETRE DE BOUNDOUM - SCHEMA HYDRAULIQUE                         Diawar Station>...
°,     I      2                                   <     7
KILOMETERS
Cl-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/'  Boundoum Barrage
SEPTEMBER 1986



|ASERIA                 To Nouokchott    161
*.eAIJte.l* AA
THE GAMqB14>.                                                                           .4,  NIox,S e9
INSSAU                                                     J                   *d Toll                          Thile          Guede         Hoer 0'
IIER9^!r  4 6 M 2 IGER A      so      ;D"h                                      Boubacor
COlE(                                                   riii        foo
LF0N :,          :.,AN\-                      D1amai
.  ampsor  eh                    '
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S160t   Louis                                                                                   S /
17-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-/'
- )50 X
DAKARe                 <      ~               
- 14°
BANJUL
.',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                            ?.
Ow  ftI"r                                   BAn* ,d VW  TH           GA       B A         .                      *                   -      '
V0914"W R.- C-P-"                                                                           I        N
4WA,4v-.."   04-.5
m4nt.         b -                                                                                                                   >,/  
,,,,, T                                                            G  rAMB nI A j 
d.N..Mv    _ S..Pw- -t            17°                                          16°                                        15°



IBRO 19099F
13'                                 I
S E N E G A L
MAURITANIA                                         IRRIGATION IV PROJECT
BOUNDOUM,THIAGAR,AND DAGANA SCHEMES
os
I iq9   LOCATION OF PROJECT SCHEMES
(Jt  j i(CVAllION 01 MA!N IRRIGATION D'1VILOPMINIS
ARI A', COMPRISING VILtAGE PI RIMETI RS
IRRIGAIlION DIVISION BOUN()ARIlt                     l60
SAED L  HLADQUARIfRS
NATIONAL CAPITAIS
® . ,i  DIVISION iiLADQUARTFRS
!,\mala)                                 ° 0    MAIN VILLAGES
!    >  ?s<s                           X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RICE MttlLS
A    7<.                   __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atl 
ROADS
RI VI RS
INIERNADIONAt 8OUNDWIES
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Thrt,
MALI
14°
0     20    40   6.0   8go   100
KILOMETERS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 
_312S                                                             MBER 1986
-  -                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTE,MBER 1986



