Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16548
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEOAL
FOU RTH-l IRRIGA'TION PROJIICT-
(Credit 1855-SF)
May 7, 1997
Technlical Agriculture Cluster 3
Country Department 14
Africa Regioll
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURIRENCY E Ql,I VALENTS
Curreincy Ulnit     ('1A I [ianc (Cl-Al)
1!S$ 1 .0         3 14-C (TAI (at appraisal. October 21 . 1 87)
l S$100 -((       43 ('l Al (al closinl, D)ecembec 3 1. 1995)
WEIGHTS ANI) MEASURES
Mctric
FISCAL. YEAIR OF BORltR(OWER
Januar\ I to l)eceiher 31
ABBRIIEVIA'FIONS ANI) ACRONYMS
BADEA          Ban que A rabe poulr le De½ielolppement .co0n1Mu ique en Alfrique (Arabic Bank for
Economlic Development in Africa)
CCCE           Caisse (centr(ale e (oope&ation economiqlo
CFD            Caisse centrtale cle cooperation ecoOnomliqlU
CNAPTI         Centre national d 'application et de peij-cctionnement auxr techniques de l'irrigation
(SAEl)'s irrigation training center)
CNCAS          Caisse nationa!e do credlit agricole du .sneal (National Agricultural Credit Bank of
Seneyal)
DPA            Direction doe la pl/nification et des imiena, enment.s ( Department of Planniilig and
Development Works of SAED)
DPD            Direction de la production et d1it dci elo/pe'nent (Departimienit of Agricultural
Developmienit of SAED)
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Coopciative Program
FIP           Irrigatioin IV Project
GOS            Governmenit of Senegal
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Developnment Association
ICR            Iniplemenitation Completion Report
IFAD           International Fund foI Agricultural Development
ISRA           Institurt s¾i('igalais de recherclies agr-icole.s (Agricultural Research Institute of Senegal)
KfW            Kreditanstaltfilr Wiederauhf7au (Federal Republic of Gerimianiy aid agency)
MC             Ministeie de li coovpration (French Ministiy of' Cooperation)
SAED           Societe d'amenagemnent de d'eyploitation des terres dii delta dufleuve seneg(il et des
va/ses diu fleuve senegal et de la filedtn  (Oi ganizatioi tfor the Development of the
Senegal River Delta and Senegal andl Fallenm  River Valleys)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
TA             Technlical Assistance
WUJA           Water IJ ser Association
Vice President      Jean-Louis Sarhid, AFR
Country Director       Malibmood A. Ayub, AFC14
Tecihilcal Manager       Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTA3
Task Team Leader        Aldelkrimil Oka, AFTA3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1855-SE)
Table of Contents
Preface ................
Evaluation Summary                                   ..................i
PART 1:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Project Identity .
B. Background .
C.  Project Objectives and Components .1
D.  Achievenment of Project Objectives.                                                 2
E.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                6
F.     Assessment of Outcome and Project Sustainability.                                7
G. Bank Performance.                                                                    9
H. Borrower Performance.                                                                9
1. Future Operations.                                                                   9
J. Key Lessons Leared.                                                                 10
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .11
Table 1   Summary of Assessment .11
Table 2        Related Bank Credits in Senegal .12
Table 3   Project Timetable .12
Table 4        Credit and Grant Disbursements .13
Table 5        Key Indicators in Project Implementation .13
Table 6        Key Indicators in Project Operation .13
Table 7    Studies Included in Project .14
Table 8A  Project Costs .14
Table 8B  Project Financing .14
Table 9        Economic Costs and Benefits (Assumptions) .15
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants .16
Table 11       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .17
Table 12   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs .17
Table 13   Bank Resources - Missions .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
IFC authorization.



APPENDICES:
Annex A        Mission Xide-M6moire ............................ 19
Annex B        Borrower's Contribution  ...............................................................24
Map IBRD No. 19099R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1855-SE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Irrigation Project in
Senegal, for which credit 1855-SE in the amount of SDR 26.2 million (US$33.6 million equivalent),
was approved on May 5, 1988 and made effective on November 30. 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, one- and a-half years after the original
closing date of June 30, 1994. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on March 12,
1996. Parallel financing of the Project was provided by the Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau, Ban que
arabe pour le developpement ecorlomique en afrique, Caisse centrale de cooperation economique (now
called CaissefranCaise de developpement) and the French Ministere de la cooperation.
The ICR was prepared by a mission' of the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO)/World Bank Cooperative Program to Senegal during July 11-22, 1995. It was reviewed by
Messrs. Abdel Bichara (MN1NE), Karim Oka (AFTA3), Randolph Harris, former Division Chief,
AF5AE. Jean-Paul Chausse, Technical Manager, AFTA3 and Mahmood Ayub, Country Director,
CD14. It is based on material in the Project files, field investigations, discussions with Bank and
Government of Senegal (GOS) staff associated with the Project, and the Borrower's own internal
evaluation report. The Borrower contributed to the preraration of the ICR by arranging field visits and
meetings and providing detailed data and information and comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire
(Annex A), and preparing its own evaluation of the Project's implementation (Annex B).
I   Mission members were Messrs. H. Trupke (FAO, Mission Leader) and A. Soumaiia (IrrigationSpecialist/Consultant).






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT)
(Cr. 1855-SE)
Evaluation Summnary
Introduction
1.    Before 1988, the World Bank supported three projects for irrigated agriculture among a total of
66 operations in Senegal. The three projects were: the Senegal River Polders Project (Cr. 350-SE),
the Debi-Lampsar Project (Cr. 775-SE), and the Irrigation Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1632-SE).
The last of these projects included financing of studies, the recommendations of which furnished the
basis for the design of the Fourth Irrigation Project (FIP).
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of FIP were to pave the way for sustainable irrigation development in the
Senegal Valley and, in particular, to modernize the irrigated areas and increase cropping intensities.
FIP was to be implemented over five years and included the following components: (a) modernization
of three perimeters (7,000 ha); (b) training of staff of the Soci&e d'Amenagement de d'Exploitation des
Terres du Delta du Fleuve Senegal et des Valles du Fleuve SeMnegal et de la Faleme (SAED) and
farmers; (c) development of a credit network for farmers; (d) financing for part of SAED's operating
expenses; (d) maintenance equipment and spare parts for SAED; (f) studies on diversifying irrigation
development in the Senegal Valley; (g) strengthening SAED's planning and development, accounting,
and training departments; and (h) support for research, reforestation, and health. Project objectives
were clear, realistic, and relevant to the country and the sector and the planned physical targets were
considered to be achievable
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Project implementation produced mixed results. The project achieved 88 percent of its physical
targets; of the 7,000 ha in the three main perimeters, 5,512 ha were modernized and another 622 ha of
minor perimeters were fully rehabilitated. The covenants in the Development Credit Agreement were
generally complied with, except for those on financial reporting and auditing, which were defaulted on
in 1992. This led to a threat of suspension of disbursements by IDA and subsequently corrective action
was taken by the Borrower
4.     The strengthening and restructuring of SAED was achieved satisfactorily, but its financial
management and monitoring and evaluation remained weak. SAED divested itself of the input and
produce marketing, as well as processing. Except for a small team required for urgent repairs, SAED
has no involvement in the repair and maintenance of irrigation networks and pumping stations; these
activities were assumed by the Water Users Associations (WUAs), established with SAED's support.
The members of WUAs are required to pay water fees calculated to cover the cost of repair,
maintenance, and depreciation of pumping stations. But the funds collected are insufficient and are



- iii -
often diverted for use as seasonal credit with low recovery rates. As a result, the financial situation of
the WUAs is not very good and schemes rehabilitated in FIP's earlier years are starting to show signs
of deterioration.
5.     The National Agricultural Credit Bank of Se.iegal (Caisse nationale de credit agricole du
senegal, CNCAS) was the principal implementing agency for the agricultural credit component. Poor
repayment resulted in huge deficits that could not be covered by allocations from donors. In its present
form, the credit system is unsustainable and new approaches need to be adopted.
6.     FIP's other components -- applied and adaptive research, reforestation, and public health --
were not executed satisfactorily.  Contrary to expectations, research did not identify any major
improvements in rice cultivation or crop diversification. Farmers' training and extension were carried
out as planned, but the overall impact on production was rather limited. Reforestation was adversely
affected by cattle foraging, and funds allocated for health were insufficient to have any lasting impact.
The marketing study for crops other than rice was not carried out and no new sales outlets for other
crops were identified. Farmers, therefore, did not have sufficient incentives to increase or diversify
their production activities. Moreover, after the 50 percent devaluation of the CFA Franc in January
1994, the price of local rice remained high compared with imported rice.  Farmers therefore
concentrated on winter crop production for subsistence and pursued other economic activities for the
rest of the year, thus defeating the aim of increased cropping intensities through double cropping.
7.     At appraisal, it was anticipated that modernized irrigation infrastructure would result in sizable
new areas brought under double cropping for rice and complementary cropping of maize, sorghum,
and tomatoes. This was expected to achieve an average cropping intensity of 160 percent and an
economic rate of return (ERR) of about 10 percent. Field investigations, however, indicate that actual
rice cropping intensity is presently in the range of 100 to 110 percent, and only limited areas are under
other crops (vegetables and maize). Based on current performance, the ERR is estimated at between
1.5 and 5 percent.
8      FIP started up slowly but caught up in the third year of project implementation. Due to delays
in getting the credit effective, FIP's closing date was postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1995.
9.     Project costs increased from an estimated US$65.6 million to US$75.3 million, mainly because
of the substantial cost overrun for civil works. In addition, the Government's decision in early 1994 to
impose a 5 percent import tax on all items further increased costs. Project implementation was
negatively affected by a number of factors. Numerous delays were caused by: (i) the multiplicity of
donors with different funding and procurement procedures; (ii) deferred payment by the Banque Arabe
pour le Deve1oppement Economique en Afrique (BADEA); (iii) a dispute with Kreditanstalt fiir
Wiederaufbau (KfW) over funding of parts of the Boundoum perimeter causing delays; and (iv) the
Government's failure to establish guidelines on duty and tax exemptions for goods and services
procured for FIP made suppliers reluctant to offer bids.
10.    The performance of the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory during project implementation,
however, more attention should have been paid by the Bank during supervision to the production
aspects. Corrective measures should have been taken to promote a more effective credit intervention
once it became clear that the credit component's lack of viability risked becoming a major impediment
to implementation. The Borrower showed strong commitment to the project by providing additional
counterpart funding. Its non-compliance with financial covenants, however, forced the Bank to issue a
"suspension of disbursement" warning in December 1992



- iv -
11.    The overall achievement of the project's objectives has to be rated unsatisfactory even though
most of the physical objectives were achieved because the agricultural development objectives,
especially the expected increases in cropping intensities and diversification, were not achieved and the
project's sustainability is not assured given the poor performance of WUAs to date in maintaining the
irrigation infrastructure.  The situation may improve however, if some schemes, presently being
studied, can increase their crop yields and intensity and can be connected to a higher level irrigation
outlet of the Diama barrage. This would allow the conversion of substantial areas presently under
pump irrigation to low-cost gravity irrigation. The introduction of short-gestation "Sahel" rice varieties
appears promising for double cropping, which would improve farm level incomes and create incentives
for farmers to put greater efforts in maintaining irrigation facilities
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
12.    The most important finding is that under the prevailing circumstances, the project has not
permitted the establishment of economically sound and operationally sustainable production systems.
The heavy investment in irrigation infrastructure and the hefty operating costs require high land-use
intensities, complemented by diversification into high-value crops, in order to be viable.  These
requirements were not met, partly due to shortfalls in support services, credit supply, and market
organization.  There are, however, recorded cases of high rice yields as well as successful crop
diversification indicating promising future avenues.
13.    The main lessons learned from implementation of FIP are:
(a)    Large-scale irrigation schemes based on heavy investments in infrastructure and
pumped water equipment are very expensive to operate and maintain. Their feasibility
depends on optimal land and water use, on higher yields and crop intensity, and on
crop diversification. It is therefore paramount to identify constraints (credit, extension,
existing production technologies and markets) and effective ways to resolve these prior
to project implementation. The experience of this project and others, clearly shows
that these issues cannot be addressed in a timely manner during project implementation.
(b)    The transfer of operation and maintenance responsibilities to community groups
(WUAs) has to be accompanied, at a very early stage by comprehensive training,
including technical and managerial training and technical assistance. Effective financial
control by the supervising authority is essential.   Moreover, when production
constraints exist, negatively affecting farm income, WUAs cannot become viable
partners because farmers will not have the proper incentives to maintain the system.
(c)    It would have been better to disengage SAED gradually, rather than abruptly from its
production activities, and thus ensure a smooth transition and prevent any possible
disruption in production.
(d)    Bank supervision missions should be adequately staffed with a range of skills to address
all important aspects of project implementation.
14.    No action plan for the operation of the project's investments was developed. In the future,
SAED will continue with its public service functions, i.e., contracting and supervising the construction
and maintenance of major irrigation/drainage networks and provision of technical assistance and
training to farmers. SAED should continue to address issues related to extension, performance of



WUAs, and monitoring and evaluation to improve results but its operating costs must continue to
decrease. An action plan with performance indicators should be developed to consolidate FIP's results
and ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the irrigation networks.
15.    The future production performance of FIP may be positively influenced by the introduction of
short-gestation "Sahel" rice varieties facilitating double cropping; its financial performance could be
improved by the possible connection to a higher level irrigation outlet at the Diama barrage, converting
areas presently under pump irrigation to gravity irrigation, thus reducing irrigation costs.  The
environmental impact of such a scenario must, however, be carefully assessed. The rural credit system
will need to be overhauled to achieve institutional and financial viability.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1855-SE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity
Credit Number          Cr. 1855-SE
Credit Amount          SDR 26.2 million (US$33.6 million equivalent)
Beneficiary            Organization for the Development of the Senegal River Delta and Senegal and
Faleme River Valleys (Societe d'amenagement de d'exploitation des terres du
delta dii fleuve senegal et des vails du fleuve senegal et de la faleme)
Region:                Africa
Sector:                Agriculture
Sub-sector:           Irrigation
B. Background
1.    Before 1988, the World Bank supported three projects for irrigated agriculture among a total of 66
operations in Senegal. The three projects were: the Senegal River Polders Project (Cr. 350-SE), .he
Debi-Lampsar Project (Cr. 775-SE), and the Irrigation Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1632-SE). The
last of these projects included financing of studies, the recommendations of which furnished the basis for
the design of the Fourth Irrigation Project (FIP).
C. Project Objectives and Components
2.    The broad objective of the Fourth Irrigation Project (FIP) was to pave the way for sustainable
irrigation development in the Senegal Valley.  The specific objectives were to: (i) improve the
performance and maintenance of the existing perimeters designed for smallholder farming; (ii) reduce the
scope of the activities undertaken by the key implementing agency, the Agency for the Development of the
Senegal River Delta and the Senegal and Fal6me River Valleys (Societe d'amenagement et d'exploitation
des terres du delta du fleuve senegal et des vallees du fleuve senegal et de la faleme, SAED), partly to
reduce its costs, but even more importantly to enable potential private suppliers of such activities to entcr
the market; (iii) explore the scope for diversifying cropping patterns and forms of irrigated farming; and
(iv) strengthen SAED's planning and managerial capacities. In support of these objectives, the project
included the following components: (i) modernization and expansion of three perimeters (7,000 ha); (ii)
training of SAED's trainers, personnel and farmers to enable them to deal with the new environment
created by SAED's disengagement; (iii) development within the National Agricultural Credit Bank of
Senegal (Caisse national de credit agricole du senegal, CNCAS) of a credit structure to serve farmers and
to enable them to deal with the new environment created by SAED's disengagement from credit provision;
(iv) financing, on a decreasing basis, of SAED's operating expenses linked to its production-related
activities; (v) provision of maintenance equipment and spare parts; (vi) studies dealing mainly with the



-2 -
diversification of cropping patterns, the marketing of new crops, and the conditions under which new
forms of irrigation farming can be attracted into the Senegal Valley; (vii) technical assistance to SAED to
reinforce its planning/programming department, extension services to farmers and its monitoring and
evaluation; (viii) applied and adaptive research, in coordination with the Senegalese Institute for
Agricultural Research (Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles, ISRA), to improve agricultural
production systems; (ix) reforestation; and (x) health.
3.     The Project was designed in line with the policy decisions set out in the "Nouvelle Politique
Agricole" (NPA) of 1984. It built on the experiences gained from the Irrigation Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1632-SE) by implementing the recommendations of its studies. Project objectives were clear,
realistic and relevant to the country and the sector and the planned physical targets were attainable.
4.     Project costs were estimated at appraisal at US$65.6 million, with a foreign exchange component
of about 45 percent. Besides a Government contribution of US$5.4 million (mostly for incremental staff
salaries for SAED and for financing SAED's public services), parallel financing was provided by the
Kreditanstaltfiir Weideraujbau (KfW) for US$10.0 million equivalent to finance parts of the Boundoum
perimeter, the French Ministre de la cooperation (MC) for US$1.2 million equivalent, mainly to finance
technical assistance (TA), and the Banque arabe pour le developpement economique en afrique (BADEA)
for US$4.7 million to finance parts of the Dagana perimeter.  The Caisse centrale de cooperation
economique (CCCE) 2I was to provide US$10.6 million equivalent for rehabilitation of the Thiagar
perimeter and for the research, health, reforestation, and training subcomponents. IDA was to finance the
rest -- US$33.6 million equivalent (SDR 26.2 million)
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
Achievement of Physical Objectives
5.     The project's physical objectives were mostly achieved. The project envisaged the modernization
of 6,980 ha, which would more than double the irrigated area. About 3,600 ha covered areas that could
previously not be irrigated because of insufficient capacity of the existing system. At Credit closing,
6,037 ha (87 percent of the appraisal estimate) had been modernized or rehabilitated, albeit it at a higher
than estimated cost per ha.
6.     The Boundoum  perimeter works were to be executed in two stages.  The first stage, to be
executed in three phases, was to cover 1,600 ha and its development costs were to be shared by IDA and
KfW. A review of the initial designs and geological tests revealed that it was impractical to build a
pumping station at the Boundoum barrage; therefore, two other pumping stations and the main canals
underwent a major redesign, that led to delays and considerable cost increases. The first two phases,
covering 1,030 ha, were implemented without major problems and irrigated areas were cultivated during
the winter season of 1991. Some disputes arose over the third phase with the contractor; KfW did not
want to finance this phase, as it considered the works on the 570 ha area to be part of the second stage.
KfW imposed conditions on its financing of the second stage: an environmental impact assessment and
proof of proper management of the first stage perimeters, conditions that could not be met in a timely
manner. The third phase was finally implemented without KfW financing and cultivation of the irrigated
areas did not take place until 1994. No modernization works were undertaken for the second stage
covering 1,680 ha, but funds were made available by KfW for modernization activities starting in
1996/97.
2   now called Caissefranvaise de developpement (CFD - French Developmeni Bank).



-3 -
7.     The Thiagar perimeter works were expanded to include the "Long Demiss" area, with an
additional 150 ha, for a total of 1,269 ha. Financing was provided by CCCE (CFD) including an
additional 5.6 km access road and development of a 32 ha village irrigated scheme. First cultivation
occurred during the 1991 winter season. Some difficulties were encountered which led to extra costs.
8.     The Dagana A and B perimeters with 769 ha and 1,874 ha, respectively, exceeded by 63 ha the
SAR target of 2,580 ha. Some modifications of the original designs were made to adjust the pumping
capacities to accord with the wishes of the farmers who felt that the estimated cropping intensities were too
high and that water requirements, especially for crops other than rice, were overestimated. Farmers were
also concerned with excessive water charges. Furthermore, some manual control structures were replaced
by automatic control systems and the canal network was redesigned. The development of this scheme was
financed by IDA and BADEA. The latter, however, delayed the advance payment to the contractor, so
that works on the scheme came to a standstill. Nevertheless, first full cultivation took place during the
1992 winter season. Dagana was the only scheme where cultivation of crops other than rice had been
foreseen. Initially, it was planned that nearly 40 percent (946 ha) would be planted with other crops, such
as tomatoes and maize. This target was later reduced to 540 ha after consultation with the beneficiaries.
Even this, however, proved overoptimistic as only about 180 ha (1994) were cultivated with tomatoes (for
processing) and hardly any diversification into other crops took place. The primary reason for this was
lack of market outlets. The scheme suffered from considerable cost overruns as the cost estimate was
based on studies carried out three years before the beginning of the rehabilitation works. During this time
the perimeter had further deteriorated and required substantial, unforeseen additional works.
9.     Major Maintenance Works. In order to partially compensate for the shortfall in rehabilitated
areas (Boundoum perimeter), it was decided to carry out major maintenance works on three smaller
perimeters -- Thilene (105 ha), Pont-Gendarme (170 ha), and Kassak-sud (250 ha). 'these works, which
were not appraised or included in the Staff Appraisal Report, covered land leveling, cleaning and repair of
irrigation canals, drains and structures, installation of PVC pipes for irrigation/drainage of individual
plots, and the replacement of some pumps. These works were necessary before management of the
schemes was turned over to the Water Users' Associations (WUAs).
10.    Other minor comiponents financed under the IDA Credit and CFD Loan included reforestation,
research and health. It had been estimated that about 140-350 ha of the irrigated perimeters were not
suitable for food crop production and would be planted mostly with forest trees (eucalyptus). Because of
the limited implementation capacity of the NGO entrusted with the execution, lack of farmers' interest,
and extensive damage to the seedlings by cattle, only about 30 ha were planted with trees. Contrary to
expectations, research did not identify any major improvements in rice cultivation or crop diversification
during the project.  A better adapted rice variety became only available after the project and the
development of this was not a result of any project intervention. Farmers' training and extension were
carried out as planned, but the overall impact on production was rather limited The health component was
initially started by an NGO in 1988 but, due to substantial delays, was handed over to another NGO in
1990, which managed to achieve some of the physical targets by 1994, including construction of seven
health posts, purchase of vehicles and equipment. and limited group formation. The impact of these
measures on health standards in the areas is, however, small because of their limited scope and coverage.



-4 -
Institutional Objectives
11.    The main institution responsible for overall project implementation was SAED, with the exception
of the credit component, which was executed by CNCAS. The project's design accorded great importance
to institutional support. Five components were almost entirely geared to restructuring and strengthening
SAED's implementation capacity, i.e., training, financial support to SAED, maintenance equipment and
spare parts, studies, and restructuring, at a cost of US$13.2 million. Of these, US$3.8 million was to be
provided by the Government, mainly for staff salaries, US$7.6 million by IDA, and US$1.8 million by
CFD and MC, mainly for TA.  Strengthening of the credit system in the valley was considered a
prerequisite for the project's success. Therefore, US$10.0 million was provided under the IDA Credit to
allow CNCAS to develop an agricultural credit system in the region and another US$1.6 million from the
Government in counterpart funding mainly for operational expenses. The project's institutional objectives
were only partially achieved.
12.   At the time of appraisal, SAED carried out numerous functions: planning and construction of
development works, training and advising farmers, input supply, operation and maintenance of irrigated
schemes, production-related services such as land preparation and maintenance of development works, and
agricultural and pumping equipment, buying and processing of paddy, rice sales, and farm credit. A
major project objective was to disengage SAED from its production-related activities and provision of
credit, and change its focus to planning and supervision, including the supervision of construction and
maintenance of major collective irrigation installations, provision of TA and training to farmers, research
and development, and monitoring and evaluation.   A  substantial staff reduction, decentralized
administration, and improved financial status were to be accomplished.
13.   Throughout implementation of the project, SAED performed satisfactory overall. The envisaged
disengagement process was implemented as planned, with the privatization of rice mills, input supply, seed
production, and pump maintenance. Starting in 1989, SAED gradually disengaged itself also from the
provision of agricultural credit, and since 1992-93, it has ceased to be involved in credit recovery. At
appraisal, SAED's employees numbered 981; they were to be reduced to 770 by 1989-90, followed by
further staff reductions over the next three years. This objective was substantively achieved, and by 1995
staff numbered 327. Salary and operating cost increases following the devaluation of the Franc CFA in
January 1994, however, eroded most of the savings. The expected impact on SAED's balance sheet did
not materialize, mostly because the Government did not repay SAED's debts. The current ratio has
therefore deteriorated from a forecast 197% in 1990 to less than 121 % in actual 1993 terms.
14.   The training of SAED's staff as well as of farmers was to be implemented by SAED's training
center (Centre national d'application et de perfectionnement aux techniques de l'irrigation, CNAPTI) and
SAED's Department of Agricultural Development (Direction de la productio7; -t du developpement, DPD);
the training was carried out as planned along with the recruitment of specialized staff. In spite of this
training, monitoring and evaluation lagged until recently and key marketing studies were not done.
15.   SAED was given, together with the rural councils, responsibility for land development and
allocation in the Senegal river valley. The farmers were given user rights to the land allocated to them.
Because of the small size of their plots they were grouped together in WUAs for the collective
management of irrigation and agricultural equipment, input purchase, and land preparation. These WUAs
have a legal status and can enter into contracts with suppliers of services, equipment and credit. WUAs
entered into a standard contract with SAED for services in return for maintenance of infrastructure by
them. There are over 160 WUAs currently operating uncler the umbrella of nine Water Unions.



-5 -
16.    The WUAs were established in a top-down manner; highly centralized, and bureaucratic, catering
mainly to the needs of the more influential farmers. Partly as a result of poor training and initially
inadequate support provided by SAED, the capability of WUA staff was noL up to the standard required
for their large range of responsibilities. A 1994 study identified the major constraints. As a result, SAED
considerably improved its technical and organizational support to the WUAs. The WUAs themselves
initiated a process of internal restructuring, including the appointment of more committed and capable
staff. Nevertheless, the status and especially the financial position of most WUAs is far from satisfactory.
The development of WUAs is, however, a long-term process with prospects for improvement over the
next few years, especially if rice production becomes financially more attractive following adoption of
improved production technologies and varieties and market outlets are developed for other higher value-
added crops.
17.    CNCAS. A sum of US$10.0 million was provided by IDA for short-term agricultural credit to be
disbursed in the valley through CNCAS's existing branch network and a new branch in Dagana. To ease
the tight credit situation in the Senegal valley, about 40 percent of the line of credit was earmarked in the
project's early stages to areas slated for rehabilitation, but outside the project area. Farmers with land
within the project area were granted production credit to allow them to start or continue agricultural
activities in areas not covered by the project.
18.    At appraisal it was correctly assessed that the rate of repayment would be the key element for
success of the credit scheme and that proper assessment of farmers' repayment capacity and close
supervision would be required as there was no practical possibility of guarantees or collateral.  A
minimum repayment rate of 90 percent was needed to guarantee sustainability of CNCAS's activities. A
system was put in place whereby SAED had to certify the creditworthiness of the borrowing farmers
before loan approval. But this was a cumbersome procedure that resulted in long delays, affecting the
farmers' ability to buy inputs for the second-season crops, and affected cropping intensities negatively. In
spite of intensive screening of applicants only for the first year of the project, 1989-90, did repayments
exceed 90 percent. Thereafter, they deteriorated rapidly to slightly above 50 percent by the 1993 summer
season, partly attributable to the lack of sanctions against defaulters, partly to the delegation of credit to
the Societe d'utilisation de materiel agricole, which did not have the legal authority to recover payments
from its members, and also to seasonal marketing difficulties.
19.    Because of this poor performance, CNCAS had to apply much stricter lending criteria and reduce
the lending ceiling. Lending for the 1993 winter season was reduced by 8.5 percent to CFAF 1,712
million and by a further 36 percent to CFAF 523 million for the 1994 summer season. As a result,
repayment improved to 62 percent and 75 percent, respectively, for these seasons, but it fell again to 63
percent in the 1994 winter season. This drop can be attributed mainly to the poor repayment performance
of the rice mills which had obtained marketing credit to purchase paddy from farmers but which have
failed to repay so far. Had they fulfilled their obligations, the repayment rate would have remained at 75
percent. As a result of the continuing poor loan recovery, over US$10.0 million was written off as bad
debts. Although CNCAS has made considerable progress in loan administration and now operates a well-
functioning branch network in the valley, its continuing large losses make the present credit system
unsustainable. New mechanisms and procedures need to be developed to achieve sustainability.
Production Objectives
20.    The project's production objectives were only partly achieved. As a result of the rehabilitation
measures it was expected that the areas under production would double to about 7,000 ha, as areas that



-6 -
could previously not be irrigated because of insufficient capacity would be irrigated. Rice yields were
expected to increase by 11 percent from 4.5 tons/ha to 5.0 tons/ha, and cropping intensity would reach
160 percent from 130 percent under the without project scenario. This implied an incremental production
of 41,000 tons. As the return on a cropping pattern based on cereals was expected to be minimal,
provision was also made to introduce a more diversified cropping pattern (10 percent of the project area).
The actual area under production increased to 6,135 ha, as a result of the shortfall in the modernization
works on the Boudoum perimeter. Yields increased more than estimated to an average of 5.9 tons/ha.
The cropping intensity was, however, slightly less than expected (150 percent). Based on data obtained by
the ICR mission, actual incremental production of rice is expected to reach 38,000 tons, only 3,000 tons
less than estimated. No increase in production was achieved for the other crops.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
21.    The project was appraised on the basis of preparatory work conducted on behalf of IDA by the
Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) covering mainly the irrigation
component, by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), which was to finance the
credit component that was subsequently taken over by IDA. and complementary appraisal work by KfW,
MC, CCCE, and BADEA. The multiplicity of donors slowed the processing of the Credit, contributing to
the hiatus of one- and a-half years between negotiations in April 1987 and Credit effectiveness in
November 1988. Throughout implementation, the lack of donor coordination slowed implementation and
led to cost increases, e.g., penalties for delayed payment. Project implementation was further hampered
by the lack of standard procurement procedures which required the borrower to follow different
procedures for each source of financing. The late payments by BADEA and the difficulties which arose
with KfW over the financing of the Boundoum perimeter also contributed to delays and cost overruns.
22.    Due to the delays in getting the Credit effective and subsequent implementation delays, mainly in
civil works, the Credit closing date was extended twice, the first time by a year to June 30, 1995 and the
second time for six months, to December 31, 1995. Project costs increased from an estimated US$65.6
million to US$75.3 million because of substantial cost overruns for civil works, from US$34.7 million to
US$40.0 million, the result of implementation delays and inflation. As donor contributions were limited to
the amounts negotiated, the GOS increased its share of financing from US$5.4 millions to US$11.7
million, indicating its strong commitment to the project.
Factors Subject to Government Control
23.    Project start-up and subsequent execution of physical works suffered considerable delays as
suppliers and contractors refused to submit bids without Government's assurance of import duty and tax-
exemption. After interventions by SAED and various donors, the Government instituted a number of
short-term measures which proved unsatisfactory. Only in April 1993 was a blanket tax waiver granted.
In early 1994, however, a flat tax of 5 percent on all imports was introduced, irrespective of whether the
goods were exempted from import duties or not, thus contributing to higher costs of imported equipment.
24.   In January 1994, Senegal and the other CFA-zone countries, devalued the CFA Franc by 50
percent; Senegal then adopted a comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program, including
immediate implementation of a far-reaching reform of trade, tariff, and transit policies. Costs of imports,
including farm inputs and machinery, almost doubled. At the same time, import restrictions on a number



-7 -
of items, including rice, were abolished. As a result, locally produced rice had to compete with foreign
imports; given the prevailing price for imported rice, on the one hand, and local production costs on the
other, financial returns to farmers were thus reduced. Import duties on rice (45 percent) were, however,
retained, giving farmers some relief.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
25.   Day-to-day project management by SAED was generally satisfactory and because of its pro-active
stance when cost over-runs were encountered, it succeeded in obtaining additional GOS funding for the
completion of infrastructure works and for operational expenses. Accounting as well as monitoring and
evaluation, especially in the early years, suffered from  various shortcoming.   SAED's rapid
disengagement from rice marketing through the privatization of rice mills led to a loss of control over
produce marketing that was linked to credit recovery.  As a result, credit default rates increased
substantially.
26.    SAED's disengagement from the management of irrigation perimeters was abrupt.  Although
SAED had provided the necessary training and established the WUAs, more guidance and control,
especially over their financial performance, were necessary.
27.    The performance of contractors, suppliers, and consultants engaged by SAED was generally
satisfactory. However, at the Boundoum site, changes in work specifications led to a dispute with one
contractor and new bidding for the completion of the works became necessary. Some problems also arose
over the works supervision at Dagana, which were later resolved Performance of the contractor in charge
of electrical and electromechanical works at Thiagar was not fully satisfactory. On the other hand, two
contractors went so far as to pre-finance substantial parts of the contract works at no extra charge.
28.   CNCAS, as principal executing agency of the agricultural credit component, made substantial
efforts to build and improve the efficiency of the network. However, the poor credit-recovery results
mitigate any institutional progress. Once it became clear that repayment had reached unacceptably low
levels, disbursement should have been halted and new approaches and procedures been developed to
prevent the total deterioration of the credit system. The experience gained under the credit component,
however, could be used as a building block, especially since CNCAS capacities and capabilities have been
substantially upgraded by the Project.
F. Assessment of Outcome and Project Sustainability
29.   Out of a planned net irrigated area of about 7,000 ha the Project has provided modernized
infrastructure for about 6,134 ha, and may therefore be considered satisfactory with respect to physical
achievements. As for institutional objectives, performance was mixed. The restructuring of SAED and
the establishment of WUAs was achieved in principle. The Project did not succeed, however, in
establishing a viable credit system.
30.   Because of the shortfall in developing the Boundoum perimeter, the total area rehabilitated fell
about 12 percent short of the SAR estimate of 6,980 ha.  Incomplete data on rice yields indicate a
weighted average of 4.9 tons/ha for the winter season and 6.3 tons/ha for the summer season, with an
average for both seasons of 5.9 tons/ha, or 0.9 tons/ha above the SAR estimate. These were used to
calculate the Economic Rate of Return (see Table 9), but there is a risk that yields may be lower in the
future because of a decline in soil fertility, increasing salinity, and inadequate input use.



-8 -
31.    The anticipated increase in cropping intensity was not realized. Although data are incomplete,
indications are that so far, intensities fluctuate between 100 and 110 percent, mainly due to the long
growing period of the present rice varieties, difficulties in obtaining credit for inputs, unavailability of
combines and adequate labor for harvesting and field preparation, and low financial returns on rice
production. The latter induces farmers to concentrate on a single crop for subsistence and to pursue other
economic activities for the rest of the year. With new rice varieties coming on stream and a possible
reduction in irrigation cost/charges due to gravity irrigation, this picture may change in the future.
32.    Diversification into other crops was another objective which was not achieved. Originally it was
intended that about 10 percent of the rehabilitated irrigation areas would be under cultivation with other
crops, such as tomatoes, maize, and sorghum. Funds were made available to support ISRA to carry out
specific diversified crop production/research and for marketing studies. The research results, however,
were not sufficiently convincing to induce farmers into larger scale diversification, and the marketing
study that should have identified new selling outlets for tomatoes and other vegetables was never carried
out. As a consequence of the continuing marketing difficulties and other problems, such as pest and
disease attacks and labor constraints, farmers did not diversify as expected; only about 386 ha including 56
ha in Pont Gendarme or about 9 percent of the project area, were planted with tomatoes.
33.    With the disengagement of SAED, operation and maintenance of the irrigation perimeters became
the full responsibility of the nine Water Unions, representing some 7,500 farmers. It has been estimated
that the seasonal irrigation cost per ha ranges from CFAF110,000-130,000 including maintenance and
depreciation. The WUAs, however, charge their members only about CFAF 100,000, and only about 70
percent of members pay their dues regularly, creating a cumulative revenue shortfall of 46 percent.
Furthermore, WUAs are using the funds collected to make seasonal loans to members, arguing that
CNCAS credit is often insufficient for farmers' needs. Repayment of these loans is poor, further depleting
reserves. For instance, the Union of Dagana A, which covers 769 ha, holds in its account only CFAF
950,000. The financial situation of other unions is not as bad, but everywhere funds are insufficient for
adequate operation and maintenance or for future replacement costs.
34.    The Project objective to assist in the establishment of a sustainable agricultural credit system in the
valley was not achieved. The huge amount of bad debts and continuing poor recovery rates are testimony
to the fact that new approaches are needed.
35.    The SAR took incremental crop production as the major quantifiable benefit and as the basis for
economic justification of the Project. The ex-ante Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Project as a
whole was estimated at 10 percent, with a likely range of 5.5 to 12.9 percent. Based on data available at
the time of the implementation completion mission and, assuming an increase in cropping intensity from
the current 100-110 percent to 150 percent by 1999, and assuming constant weighted average rice yields
of 5.9 tons per ha, the ERR has been re  imated at 1.5-5.2 percent, depending on the likelihood of the
assumptions occurring. Contributing factors to the lower thani expected ERR were the delayed onset of the
economic benefits and a cost increase of over 13 percent. Based on the economic analysis the project's
overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
36.    Under the present conditions (low yields, low cropping intensity, no diversification), the project's
outcome is not sustainable. The situation may improve however, if some schemes, presently being
studied, can increase their crop yields and intensity and can be connected to a higher level irrigation outlet
of the Diama barrage.  This would allow the conversion of substantial areas presently under pump
irrigation to low-cost gravity irrigation. The introduction of short-gestation "Saahel" rice varieties appears



-9 -
promising for double cropping, which would improve farm level incomes and create incentives for farmers
to put greater efforts in maintaining irrigation facilities.
G. Bank Performance
37.    At appraisal, the project was mainly focused onl the phiysical infrastructure and iiistitutional
components and less on poverty reduction and genider- issues, which was in liie with project design
philosophy at the time. During implementation, the Bank fielded ten full super-visionl IllissioIns, conisistinig
mainly of irrigation specialists, and three thematic ImlissioInS specitically to cover ftinanicial manlagemilent and
accounting. While the number and frequency of supervision missions were adequate for a project of this
nature, including a wider range of staff expertise would have enhianice(d support provided to the Borrower.
The Bank focused mostly on the physical implemenitation of the constructioni programil and the institutional
components while neglecting the agricultural production aspects.  The Bank was swift, however, in
adjusting to changes in the financing plan and agreed to the necessary project extensionis without delay.
tIowever, when, it became apparent that the failure of the credit comiiponienit was becoming an impedimilenit
to the achievement of project objectives, the Bank was slow ini icacting (thie comilponienit shioild have been
either stopped or a more viable inistitutional arrangennelt soluti) I adopted).
H.    Borrower Performance
38.    The Borrower's performance was geneially satisfactory.  Some initial weaknesses in project
managemilent led to delays in start-up, and a lack of decisionl on import duties and tax exemptions for
project equipment and works hiampered iimiplemilenitation. The Borrower made a major effort to provide
additional funding to cover the financial gap in the construction progranm. The Borrower's non-compliance
with the financial covenanlts forced the Bank to issue a "suspension of disbursemenit" warning in December
1992. Since then the project's financial managcment has iilproved substantially, which was reflected in
subsequent audits.
1.     Future Operatiotns
39.    Neither the Borrower nor SAED prepared an action plan for the future operation of the project's
investments.
40.    For the post-project phase, SAEI) should continue to address issues related to extension, WUA
performiance, and monitoring and evaluation in order to improve the project's outcome. An action plan,
includinig perlormance indicators, needs to be developed and followed--up by SAED to consolidate mesults
and ensure adequate operationi and miainteniance of the rehabilitatedl perimeters. Links to future lending
operations, such as the proposed unified national agriculture services program, should therefore be closely
investigated.
41.    Given the heavy losses, the future of CNCAS as the main channel for production credit is
uncertain. Micro-financing mechanisms and institutions have proven more viable interventions elsewhere
and should be promoted.



-10 -
J.     Key Lessons Learned
42.    The four main lessons learned from the Project are:
(a)   ILarge-scale irrigation schemes based on heavy investments in infrastructure and pumped
vater equipment are very expensive to operate and maintain. Their feasibility depends on
optimal land and water use, on higher yields and crop intensity, and on crop
diversification. It is therefore paramount to identify constraints (credit, extension, exijiLaig
production technologies and markets) and effective ways to resolve these prior to project
implementation. The experience of this project and others, clearly shows that these issues
cannot be addressed in a timely manner during project implementation.
(b)    The transfer of operation and maintenance responsibilities to community groups (WUAs)
has to be accompanied, at a very early stage by comprehensive training, including
technical and managerial training and technical assistance. Effective financial control by
the supervising authority is essential.  Moreover, when production constraints exist,
negatively affecting farm income, WUAs cannot become viable partners because farmers
will not have the proper incentives to maintain the system.
(c)    It would have been better to disengage SAED gradually, rather than abruptly from its
production activities, and thus ensure a smooth transition and prevent any possible
disruption in production.
(d)    Bank supervision missions should be adequately staffed with a range of skills to address all
important aspects of project implementation.



-11 -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1855-SE)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A.  Achievement of objectives          Substantial         Partial     Negligible  Applicable
(9')            (l/)          (v')          (9')
Macro policies                          _
Sector policies                                                                      9
Financial objectives                                     _=
Institutional development                                9
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                        _=
Gender issues
Other social objectives                                                              v
Environmental objectives             |=
Public sector management             |'
Private sector development           | 
Other (specify)
B.  Project sustainability              Likely             Unlikely        Uncertain
(9')               (9')            (9')
Highly
C.  Bank performance                  satisfactory        Satisfactory    Deficient
(9')               (9')            (V')
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                              _]
Supervision
Highly
D.  Borrower performance              satisfactory        Satisfactory      Deficient
(9')               (9')            (9')
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                        Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome        satisfac   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
tory         (9)              (9)              (
(9')
LI          C:               [               I I1



-12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits in Senegal
Fiscal
Loan/Credit No.                                Purpose                            Year of      Status
l _________________________   ____________________________________________         _   A p p ro v al l
Preceding operatiors
1. Senegal River Plodders     I)eve]opment of 3,000 ha of irrigated land                 1972      Completed
Project (SRPP; Cr.-350 SE)
2. Debi-Lainpsar Project      Development of 3,340 ha of irrigated land                   1978     Completed
(Dl1P: Cr-775 SE)
3. Irrigation Technical       Reform of SAED and emergency rehabilitation works          1985      Completed
Assistance Project
(Cr.-1632 SE)                                                                                   _
Completed
Following operations
1. Agricultural Research      To support Ira's in generating low-risk technology         1990        (1995)
Project 11 (Cr.-2107 SE)
2. Agricultural Services      To improve exmension, extension research linkages, and      1990       (1995)
Project (Cr.-2108 SE)         strengthen producer organizations
Figures in brackets indicate the expected closing date.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Item                      Date Planned          I        Revised Date                   Actual Date
Preparation Period
Identification
Preparation                                _                               _                      November 1985
Appraisal Mission                    February 1986                                                   June 1986
Staff Appraisal Report                                                     -                     October 21, 1987
Credit Negotiations                     July 1986                                                April 20-29, 1987
Board Approval                        October 1986                                               December 1, 1987
Credit Signature                     February 1987          __May 5, 1988
Credit Effectiveness                   June 1987            __Novemnber 30, 1988
Implementation Period
Project Completion                  December 31, 1993                                               June 30, 1995
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1994                                              December31, 1995
No of Closing Extensions: 2



-13 -
Table 4: Credit and Grant Disbursements
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
US$ Millions
1988       1989       1990        1991        1992       1993        1994         1995        1996
Appraisal Estinate               1.7        7.4       14.2        20.5        25.9        29.9        31.6        33.0         33.6
Actual                            -         4.3        7.2        21.9        27.8        31.8        32.8        34.5         35.8
Actual as a                      0          58         51          107         107        106         104         105          107
of Esnmate
Date of Final Disbursement: March 12, 1996
emarks:  The  total Credit amount of SDR 26.2 million is fully disbursed. The disbursement period was extended by four months to
allow  for the completion of works partially contracted out before the Credit closing date. The higher US$ figures are due to
depreciatiom of the US$ vis-a-vis the SDR.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                                  Estimated                   Actual
I. Key implementationi indicators in SAR/MOP
1. Rehabilitationi of irrigation perimeters (ha)
a. Boundoum                                                     3,280                     1,600
b. Thiagar                                                      1,120                     1,269
c. Dagana A& B                                                 2.580                      2,643
2. Increase in rice yields (%)                                       11                        11
3. Increase in cropping intensity (%)                               160)                       100
4. Area under diversified crops (ha)                                541)                       150
5. Area under fodder trees (ha)                                     245                        30
II. Modified indicators
1. Major Maintenance Works (ha)                                                                   525
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                    Actual
1. Key operating indicators in               NA                          NA
SAR/MOP



-14 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                      Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined         Status        Impact of Study
Marketing and             To determine marketing prospects for           Not
Diversification            diversified crops and possibilities of        implemented I/
exporting the Valley's unbroken rice
Private Sector            To assess and promote private sector           Not
Involvement                involvement in the irrigated sector          implemented I/l
L/ It was decided carly (in February 1984) to exclude these two studies from the project and include them in the Master Plan for
the Left Bank of the Seneual River.
Table 8A: Project Costs
(IUS$ Million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
(US$Million)                    (US$Million)
Item                 Local    Foreigni    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
I.  Civil Works                           11.63     23.04      34.67      14.23      25.34      39.57
2.  Agricultural Credit                   11.57        -        11.57     12.00       0.00       12.00
3.  Financial support to SAED             5.02         -        5.02      10.54       0.00       10.54
4.  Equipment and material                  -         1.16       1.16     0.0(0       1.25       1.25
5.  Studies                                 -        2.32       2.32      0.00        2.94       2.94
6.  Restructuring of SAED                 0.84       0.53       1.37      0.39        0.23       0.62
7.  Applied and adaptive Researclh        2.09       3.42       5.51      0.21        0.31       0.53
8.  Reforestation                         0.36       (.05       0.41      0.01        0.00       0.01
9.  Health                                0.13       0.08       0.21      0.08        0.05       0.13
10. Operating Cost of SAED I/             1.43       1.94       3.37      5.84        1.85       7.69
Total Project Cost                  33.07      32.54      65.61     43.31       31.96      75.27
Includes trainine which is shown separately in the SAR but for w hich no) detailed actual figures are available.
2  Perecentage oft oreign exchange co(ill(ponelit assuinied1 to he thie samiet as ai appraisal.
Table 8B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimate
Source                 Local    Foreign         Totld           Local    Foreign       Total
IDA                              22.48        11.12       33.60)          23.37        12.45     35.82
Governmrtent of Scnegal            5.40           -        5.4 )           11.67           -      11.67
KtW                                3.35        6.65       10.0u             3.07        6.10      9.17
BADEA                                 -        4.70        4.7)                -        4.71      4.71
FAC                                0.21        1.09        1.3(            0.41         2.14      2.55
CCCE/CFD                           4.48        6.13       10 6 i            4.79        6.56      11.35
TI'OTAL                         35.92       29.69       65.61            43.31       31.96      75.27



-15 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits (Assumptions)
All cost and benefits were adjusted to 1995 constant prices.
The combined economic price of rice and its main byproduct straw (used as cattle feed, etc.), was
estimated at CFAF 116.
With project assumptions:
*  production based on 6,134 ha of irrigable area
*  cropping intensities are assumed to gradually increase from  100 percent in 1995 to 150
percent in 1999, with the gradual introduction of better adapted rice varieties
*  yields are expected to increase from 5.0 tons per ha in 1995 (low estimate) to an average yield
of 5.9 tons per ha in 1999
*  production costs are estimated at FCFA 500,000-600,000 per ha (depending on the level of
mechanization); the ICR mission could not do a detailed analysis of these costs and came up
with a low level estimate of FCFA 270,000 per ha, this estimate was not used because it
compares too low with other countries.
*  ERR was calculated with and without the cost of the failed credit component, because it would
otherwise not give a fair picture of the productivity of the
Without project assumptions:
*  production is based on SAR assumption of 3,335 ha of irrigable land, but linearly declining by
25 percent by the year 1995/96, because of inadequate maintenance
*  cropping intensities would remain at 100 percent (the SAR assumed an increase, but this has
turned out be wrong)
*  yields are expected to remain flat at 4.5 tons per ha
Based on these assumptions, the ERR was estimated at between 2.5 and 5.2 percent.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement         Section       Covenant   Present    Original           Revised
Type       Status-/  fulfillment   fulfillment                                Covenant Description                                    Comments
date          date
DCA3      Sch. I Para 3/1         5           C             -                      Signature of Agreement with SAED defining respective responsibilities in carrying
out Part H (Reforestation)
Sch. I Para 3/2        5           C             -             -        Signature of Agreenment between SAED and CREDO-SAHEL defining
responsibilities in carry out Part I (Health)
Sch. I Para 3/3        5           C             -                      Effectiveness of KtW Financing Agreement for Category l.a Rehabilitation of
Boundoum
DCA       Sec. 2.02 b/l           4           C                                    Opening of a Special Account in SAED's name (CFAF a billion)
Sec. 2.02 b/2          4           C             -                      Opening of a special account in CNCAS' name (CFAF 350 million)
DCA       Sec. 3.01 a             5           C            -              -        GOS provides SAED with the necessary proceeds required for its public service
activities on the basis of the Lettre de Mission
Sec. 3.01 b            3           C             -             -        GOS provides SAED with the funds allocated to Cat. 1 - 4 under the GOS-SAED
Grant Agreement
Sec. 3.01 d            3           C             -             -        GOS relends proceeds of Cat. 5 to CNCAS under a GOS-CNCAS Subsidiary Loan
Agreement
DCA       Sec. 3.04               5           C            -              -        GOS implements the action plan for SAED's disengagement as defined in the Lettre
de Mission
DCA       Sec. 3.05 a             5           C                    -               GOS furnishes report on progress of SAED's disengagement
Sec. 3.05 b            9           C         Aug. 89           -        GOS furnishes report on progress of project implementation
DCA       Sec. 4.01a              I           C         Dec. 91        Dec. 92     SAED submits financial audit report before December 31,1991
Sec. 4.01 b            I           C         March 91          -        CNCAS submits financial audit report before March 31. 1992                     Annual audit reports
often subniitted withi
delays.
1/ C = Completed
3    Development Credit Agreement



-17 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Overall, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
(as of 1/31/96)
Stage of project cycle         Planned                   Revised                   Actual
Weeks      US$'000       Weeks       US$'000       Weeks       US$'000
Through appraisal          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.            76.5        161.3
Appraisal-Board            n. a.        n. a.        n. a.       n. a.           92.7        207.0
Board-effectiveness        n. a.        n. a.       n. a.        n. a.            n. a.        n. a.
Supervision                n.a.         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.           100.0        297.1
Completion                 n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.            11.8         44.0
TOTAL                      n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.           281.0        709.4
1/ Staff weeks include Banrl-financed consultanits. such as FAO, but the dollar amount exclude FA0 costs.



-18 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance rating4'
Stage of             Month"l        Number          Days in       Specialized2/ 31   Implementation     Development          Types of
project cycle           year             of             field         staff skills        status           objectives         problems5'
persons                       represented
Preparation FAO           May 1985
re-appraisal              Feb/March 86           4               25      A, IE, EF, S              -
Appraisal                 June 86                5               18      A, IE, EF, TE, S
Supervision I             Oct. 88                1               6        E
2               March 89               2              14        E                                            1                 M
3               Nov. 89                2              14       IE                        2                   1                 M
4                une 90                2              13        E                        3                   3                  F
5               Feb. 91                1               6       IE                        2                   2                  F
6               Oct. 91                2               6       IE                        2                  2                   F
7               April 92               1              13       IE                        2                  2                   F
8               Oct. 92                1              20        E                        3                  2                  F
9               July 93                1              14        E,EF                     2                  2                 F/T
10              Ipril94                               11                                 2                                     F
1/ Mission End Date.
2/ A = Agriculturist, IE = Irrigation Engineer, EF = Economist/Financial Analyst, TE = Technical Educators, S = Sociologist.
3/ All Bank missions were jointly undertaken with CFD and some with KfW and MCAC.
4/ 1 = Problem free or minor problem, 2 = Moderate problem, 3 = Major problem.
5/ F = Financial, M = Managerial, T = Technical.



-19 -
Annex A
A IDE-MEMO!RE
SENEGAL - Projet Irrigation IV
FAO/CP - Mission de prepiration du Rapport d'achevement (le la mise en oeuvre
Introduction
1.          Le present Aide - Memoire est etabli par une mission de la FAO/CP I' qui a visite le Senegal du
11 au 22 juillet 1995 dans le cadre de la preparation du Rapport d'achevement de la mise en oeuvre du Projet
Irrigation IV. Les conclusions de la mission sont basees sur une revue de la documentation relative au projet,
incluant le Rapport du president, I'accord de credit de developpement, I'accord de projet, les rapports de
supervision du projet, les echanges de correspondances entre l'IDA et l'Emprunteur, les notes intermes de l'IDA,
les rapports des Agences de co-financements du projet, les rapport d'evaluation interne du projet elabore par la
SAED, l'interview des responsables de l'IDA et du Gouvemement impliques dans la mise en oeuvre du projet
ainsi que des beneficiaires. La principale contre-partie institutionnelle de la mission a ete la SAED. Des
visites de terrain ont et entreprises sur lensemble des perimetres devant etre rehabilites dans le cadre du projet
et des discussions ont et menees avec les agriculteurs, les responsables des organisations paysannes, les
organismes de recherche, de vulgarisation et de credit ayant intervenu dans la mise en oeuvre du projet. La
mission adresse ses vifs remerciements a toutes les personnes qui lui ont apporte leur appui, en particulier le
President Directeur G6n6ral et le personnel de la SAED.
Historique et objectifs du projet
2.          Le projet a ete pr&evalue par la Banque mondiale au debut de l'annee 1982. L'evaluation
proprement dite n'a toutefois pu suivre du fait de problemes en suspens tels que (a) le d6ficit des couts de
fonctionneinent de la SAED, (b) l'insuffisance du transfert des couts de production aux agriculteurs par le
maintien de la subvention aux intrants agricoles, et (c) le sureffectif de la SAED. Dans le cadre de la Nouvelle
Politique Agricole adoptee par le Gouvernement en avril 1984 des propositions de mesures ont permis de
circonscrire ces points de blocage, amenant ainsi la Banque mondiale a reprendre la pr6paration du projet. Le
rapport d'evaluation finale a ete elabore en juin 1986. Les negociations ont eu lieu en avril 1987; le projet a ete
presente au Conseil d'Administration de l'IDA en decembre 1987 et entra en vigueur en novembre 1988.
3.          Le cout total du projet etait estime a US$ 65,6 millions r6parti entre l'IDA (US$ 33,6 millions), la
KfW (US$ 10,0 millions), la BADEA (US$ 4,7 millions), la CCCE (lJS$ 10,6 millions) et le Ministere frangais
de la Cooperation (US$ 1,3 million); la contrepartie du Gouvernement etait estimee a US$ 5,4 millions.
4.          L'objectif general du projet est d'ouvrir la voie au developpement soutenu de l'irrigation dans la
vallee du fleuve Senegal, en particulier par la modernisation des perimetres irrigues et lintensification de la
production. Le projet etait concu pour une periode de mise en oeuvre de 5 ans et comprenait les composantes
suivantes: (a) modernisation de trois perimetres totalisant 7 000 ha, (b) formation du personnel de la SAED et
des agriculteurs, (c) developpement d'un reseau de credit pour les agriculteurs, (d) financement d'une partie des
couts de fonctionnement de la SAED, (e) financement d'equipements de maintenance et de pi&ces detachees
pour la SAED, (f) etudes sur la diversification des cultures irriguees, (g) appui aux services de la SAFD
4   La mission etau composee de MM. H. Trupke, chef de mission, et de A. Soumaila, mngcnleur d'irrigation. consultant.



-20 -
charges de la planification et du developpement rural, de la cornptabilite et de la formation, et (h) des volets
d'accompagnement dans les domnaines de la recherche/d6veloppement, la reforestation et la sante.
Mise en oeuvre, experience et resultats
5.           La mise en oeuvre du projet est caracterisee par tine grande variabilite au niveau des resultats
attenduis, allant de la pleine satisfaction a la non satisfaction.  En, termes d'infrastructures physiques, les
objectifs quantitatifs du projet ont ete atteints de fa,on satisfaisante (la realisation de 1 600 ha constituant la
seconde tranche de Boundoulil a ete differee dans le cadre du financemilent KfW  en attendant la construction
prochiaine de l'Emissaire du Delta).  Ainsi, les superficies suivantes ont ete int6gralement modernisees:
Boundour-n (I 600 ha), Dagana A et B (2 500 ha), Thiagar et petits perimetres satellites (I 270 ha), soit au total
5 450 lha (78% de l'objectif initial); a cela s'est ajoutee l'ex6cution d'un programme de gros entretien sur trois
perin-itres moyens sur decision prise en cours de projet, Thil&ne ( 105 ha), Pont-Gendarme (I 70 ha) et Kassack
Sud (250 hia), soit unl additif de 525 hia.
6.           L'estimnation inadequate des coits lors de l'evaluation du projet, les modifications de conception
et l'inflationi ont conduilt A tin depassement stibstanitiel des couts des infrastructures de d6veloppement. Les
delais d'etablissement des plans de genie civil, des conflits avec un entrepreneur et des tractationis sur
l1exemption de taxes A l'importation de biens et services ainsi que les difficultes rencontrees pour satisfaire la
totalit6 des conditionnalit6s des differentes agences de financement, ont eu des repercussions n6gatives stir les
delais, conduisant A une prolongation du projet de 1 8 mois.
7.           La restructuration et le soutien institutionnel A la SAED ont evolue d'une maniere satisfaisante.
Ses differents departements ont re,u l'appui prevu par le Rappori d'Evaluation et les effectifs ont ete reduit de
920 en 1989 ' 305 en 1995. Toutefois, le controle financier et comptable est reste particulierement faible et lc
suivi-6valtiation necessite encore des ameliorations.  Sur la base des directives de la Nouvelle Politique
Agricole, la quatrieme Lettre de Mission de la SAFLD qui a couvert la periode 1991-1994 a consacre son
d6sengagernent des activites de production, de commercialisation et de transformation du riz.  Comnme
resultats, son deficit de fonctioniement a ete reduit, mais contrairemenit aux previsions du Rapport d'Evaluation
elle n'a pas cte en position de gen6rer en plus des benefices d'exploitation et par consequent, pour le
finanicemilenit de ses activites, elle depend entierement des allocations budgetaires dIi Gouvernement.
8.           La SAED s'est aussi totalement desengagee des activites de reparation et de maintenance des
reseaux d'irrigation primaires et secondaires incluant l'entretien des petites et moyenies station s de pom page;
setile tine equipe reduite pour faire face aux interventions d'urgenice a et maintenue. Ces activites dans letir
ensemilble ont ete prises en maini par les associations d'usagers a%ec l'appui de la SAED. Les memlibres de ces
associationis doivent payer le cout de l'eau qui inclue les charges d'entretien des r6seaux, de reparation et de
renouivellemenit des equipements de pompage. 11 est cependant vite apparu que le niveau de payement de la
redevance hydraulique est insuffisanit et les fonds recupreces sont souvent utilisees, compte tenie des
problemres de credit, pour le fi nanicemenit d'intrants saisoniniers avec de faibles taux de rem boursement.
9.           Vers la fin de lannee 1989 il a ete egalement demande A la SAED de se desengager des activites
de credit agricole au profit de la CNCAS. A travers le projet, la CNCAS a beneficie l'une ligne de credit d'un
monitanit total de US$ 7,4 millions principalement pour financer les credits de campagne.  Les taux de
recouv,ement sollt passes de presque 90% pour lannee 1990/91 A moins de 50% en 1992/93 pur remonter a
63% environi en saison froide 1994/95; la CNCAS a reduit de maniere drastique les volumes de credit aux
producteurs tout comnie aux commercants et aux rizieres. Ce deficit de cash flow dans le financement des
filieres agricoles est per,cu par totites les parties prenantes comme unle contrainte serieuse A l'expansioni de la
productioni.



-21 -
10.         Les volets d'accompagnement tels que la recherche/d6veloppement, le reboisement et la sante
dont les coats de base A 1P6valuation etaient estim6s A US$ 3,99 millions, US$ 0,27 million, US$ 0,15 million
respectivement, n'ont connu que peu de succes. Contrairement aux attentes, la recherche/developpement, avec
peu de resultats n'a eu qu'un impact faible dans les domaines de la culture du riz et de la diversification; le
reboisement a e  considerablement endommage par les animaux tandis que le volet sante etait insignifiant
pour avoir ull impact suffisant A long terme.
11.         Comme resultat global du projet, la superficie des perimetres modernises represente 6 100 ha
environ. A l'evaluation it ltait prevu unl accroissemeent significatif des superficies a emblaver en riz en double
culture annuelle ainsi que les productions complementaires en maYs, sorgho, tomate, pour atteindre une
intensite culturale moyenne de 160% et un taux d'int&r6t econoinique de 10% environ. Les investigations
operees sur le terrain indiquent cependant que les taux d'intensite actuels varient de 100 A 110% et que les
superficies des cultures de diversification sont restees negligeables A l'exception du perimetre de Dagana ou la
superficie en polyculture est traditionnellement importante. Meme A ce niveau, il a et6 note que le programme
de travaux d'endiguement des deux rives du fleuve entrepris par l'OMVS a contribue a limiter les superficies de
polyculture en contre-saison. On en deduit ainsi qu'en matiere d'impact sur la production, les resultats du projet
ne sont pas satisfaisants. Comme consequence egalement, les revenus des m6nages n'ont pa. ugmente comme
espere, et la devaluation de 50% du F.CFA a plut6t aggrave la rentabilite financiere avec le doublement des
prix des intrants et une rnontee en fleche des coats des prestations (mnecanisation/machinerie).
12.         La defaillance de la composante cr6dit agricole pese lourdement stir les objectifs du projet. En
d6pit des efforts deployes et des sommes depensees (perdues), le systeme n'est toujours pas a meme de
repondre aux besoins de financement du secteur agricole. La restructuration de la SAED a 6te suivie d'effets
positifs varies allant de la r6duction des cofits de personnel a une participation plus importante du secteur prive
dans les activites de production et de commercialisation. Toutefois son d6sengagement subit des activites de
commercialisationi a conduit A uine baisse du taux de recouvrement de credit.
13.         Le coGt total du projet estime A US$ 65.6 million par le Rapport d'evaluation a et r&estime A
US$ 74 million A mi-1995. Quelques re-allocations entre categories etaient necessaires du fait essentiellement
de I'augmentation des coats des travaux de genie civil, et le plan de financement necessitait un reajustement
refletant l'accroissement de la contribution du Gouvernement et les arrangements particuliers intervenus entre
co-financiers. Le reliquat de financement qui est de l'ordre de F.CFA 400 millions sera utilise sur la periode de
prolongation du projet (usqu'en decembre 1995), pour le reglement des couits des travaux de construction de
magasins restants destines aux organisations paysannes, ainsi que pour realiser le programme complementaire
d'appui technique a la SAED (entretien du reseau electrique sous responsabilit6 SAED, formation ...).
Durabilite du projet
14.         Avec le desengagement de la SAED de la gestion, la reparation et l'entretien des reseau
d'irrigation et stations de pompage. I'avenir du projet reste enti&rement entre les mains de organisations
paysannes. Les performances financieres de ces organisations ont e  faibles et n'ont pas permis de constituer
des provisions suffisantes pour la realisation des travaux de maintenance et d'entretien p6riodique. Les
redevances d'eau ont ete fixees en de,A du niveau requis, leur recuperation aupres des irriguants n'est pas
toujours satisfaisante, et l'utilisation des provisions pour du credit de campagne avec un niveau de
remboursement souvent tres bas, aggravant ainsi la precarite de la situation financiere des organisations
paysannes. A moins d'une amelioration importante des m6thodes de gestion, les infrastructures et 6quipements
d'irrigation se deterioreront rapidement. A I'heure actuelle dejA des signes de degradation sont perceptibles au
niveau des reseaux rehabilites en 1990/91.



-22 -
15.         Les pratiques agricoles actuelles et le faible taux de rentabilite financiere du riz tout comme le
manque de credit concourent A la faible performance des organisations paysannes. Sans un accroissement des
intensites culturales pour lequel (i) le credit A la production et A la commercialisation est necessaire, (ii)
I'adoption de methodes de production peu cofiteuses incluant la recolte et le battage du riz doit &re operee, et
(iii) des efforts de diversification sont A entreprendre, la motivation des paysans pour entretenir les perimetres
irrigues demeurera faible; ainsi, on peut affirmer qu'il existe de doutes serieux sur la durabilite du projet.
Performances de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur
16.         Depuis la signature de l'Accord de cr6dit de developpement la banque a effectue dix missions de
supervision complete et trois missions thematiques couvrant specialement la gestion comptable et financiere du
projet. Cette fr6quence de suivi peut etre consideree comnie satisfaisante pour un projet de cette envergure et
de cette duree, mais l'incorporation A ces missions d'une gamme d'expertise plus variee aurait pu ameliorer
l'appui de la Banque. La Banque s'est focalisee beaucoup plus sur les aspects physiques de la mise en oeuvre
du programme et le volet institutionnel, negligeant presque enti&ement les aspects lies A la production agricole.
Au moment ou il etait apparu que la composante credit courrait un risque eleve de derapage, la Banque aurait
du intervenir de facon plus decisive pour limiter le phenomene. Devant le retard de signature de la Convention
KfW qui a par ailleurs decide de differer la realisation de la troisieme phase de la premiere tranche des travaux
de Boundoum, la Banque a proc6de rapidement A l'ajustement du plan de financement et accepta avec celerite
la prolongation du projet.
17.         D'une maniere generale les performances de l'Emprunteur pendant l'ex6cution du projet ont e
satisfaisantes. Quelques faiblesses ont ete notees au debut du projet, et l'absence de decision rapide sur le
probleme d'exoneration de taxes du volet equipements et travaux a ralenti le rythme de mise en oeuvre du
projet. L'Emprunteur a fait un effort important dans la mise en place de financements complementaires pour la
rehabilitation de certains perimetres au niveau desquels les travaux ont ete sous-estimes (Dagana). Le fait que
l'Emprunteur ne se soit pas conforme A certains dispositions de l'Accord de Credit (conventions financi&es), a
amene la Banque A emettre un preavis de suspension des deboursements en decembre 1991. Depuis cette date
la comptabilite et le contr6le interne se sont ameliores.
Les resultats du projet
18.         Des 7 000 ha de superficie irriguee prevue, I'apport du projet a porte sur la modernisation de
6 100 ha, un resultat qui peut etre considere comme satisfaisant. Par rapport aux objectifs institutionnels, les
performances du projet sont plut6t mitigees: la restructuration de la SAED et le transfert de la gestion des
amenagements aux organisations paysannes ont ete effectifs; par contre le projet a e  un echec dans son
objectif de mettre sur pied un systeme durable de credit institutionnel. L'experience vecue dans le cadre de la
composante credit pourrait cependant etre utilisee comme base de relance, notamment avec l'accroissement
substantiel des capacites de la CNCAS et de sa presence dans la zone du projet.  Les objectifs de
developpement tels que l'augmentation de l'intensite culturale pour atteindre 160% en moyenne et davantage de
diversification n'ont pas ete atteints dans la periode de decaissements. Dans ces conditions il subsiste un doute
serieux sur la durabilite des investissements et le taux de rentabilite economique est vraisemblablement proche
de zero. De ce point de vue et conformement aux directives de la Banque mondiale en matiere de post-
evaluation (ICR), le projet dans son ensemble doit etre considere comme non satisfaisant.
19.         La situation pourrait toutefois evoluer positivement car (i) le relevement du plan d'eau du lac de
Diama A la cote 2,5 m reduiraient substantiellement les charges de pompage avec les possibilites d'alimentation
gravitaire d'un grand nombre de casiers d'irrigation et (ii) l'introduction de varietes de riz A cycle court (Sahel



-23 -
108) permettrait un passage plus actif a la double culture annuelle. Ainsi le cadre de motivation des
agriculteurs pour l'entretien des infrastructures et le reinboursement des credits pourrait etre cree, mais ces
conditions d'amelioration ne sont pas imputables au projet.
Suite a donne
20.         La mission pr6parera tin rapport de post-evaluation (ICR) selon les directives de la Banque
mondiale qui sera soumis au Gouvernement et a la Banque. Ces directives stipulent que I'Emprunteur doit
contribuer au rapport en elaborant son propre d'evaluation finale du projet. La mission a note que I'Emprunteur
procede a l'actualisation de son propre rapport d'evaluation inteme (SAED, avril 1994). La mission a demande
a l'Emprunteur de preparer la synthese de ce rapport une fois actualise pour etre annexee au rapport de post-
evaluation.






-24 -
Annex B
CONTRIBUTION OF SAED TO THE
COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
FOURTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1855-SE
I.    INTRODUCTION
World Bank procedures require that an implementation completion report (ICR) be prepared for projects
financed by the institution, once implementation has ended. The World Bank prepares this report and the
client country, through the implementing agency, presents a succinct contribution.
The ICR is an important part of the project cycle, since it marks the transition from the implementation
phase to that of continued operation. For the Fourth Irrigation Project, the Bank dispatched to Senegal, from
July 11 to 25, 1995. an FAO/CP mission charged with preparing the said report.
This document is SAED's contribution as the implementing agency for the project, for which a credit of
US$ 33.6 million was approved by the World Bank in December 1987. The credit became effective in
November 1988.
The Project closing date, originally set for June 30, 1994, was extended to December 31, 1995. All
disbursements under the project are expected to have been made as of March 31, 1996, at the latest.
Project financing required a consortium of donors for a total of US$ 65.6 million, distributed as follows:
- World Banik (IDA), US$ 33.6 million;
- C.F.D. (ex-CCCE), US$ 10.6 million;
- KfW, US$ 10 million;
- BADEA, US$ 4.7 million;
- French Ministry of Cooperation, US$ 1.3 million;
- Senegalese Government counterpart funds were estimated at US$ 5.4 million.
The project's overall objective is to lay the groundwork for the sustainable development of irrigation in the
Senegal River Valley, especially by modernizing irrigated perimeters and intensifying agricultural
production. The project, designed for an implementation period of five years, included the following
components:



-25 -
a)     modernization of, and expansion of surface area of, three perimeters totaling 7.000 ha.;
b)    training of farmers and of SAED's outreach staff;
c)     development of an agricultural credit network for farmers;
d)    financing of a portion of SAED's operating expenses;
e)    financing of maintenance equipment and spare parts for SAED;
f)    studies, mainly on crop diversification in the Senegal River Valley;
g)     provision of expatriate technical assistance to SAED in order to support its services dealing
with planning, agricultural extension and monitoring/evaluation; and
h)    accompanying measures in the areas of research/development, reforestation and human
health.
Finally, in the institutional arena, the Project aimed to pursue the restructuring of SAED in the context of its
withdrawal from production activities, as well as a greater degree of responsibility for producers.
II.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
lImplementation is examined below from the administrative, financial and technical points of view.
2-1. Administrative and Financial Aspects of Implementation
The structure of the Fourth Irrigation Project is totally integrated into that of the Dagana Delegation. The
Delegated Engineer (Ingenieur Delegue) is the Project Director. As such, he is responsible for the Project's
technical and financial implementation. This amassing of functions by one pe-son turned out to be an
excessive burden of responsibility in terms of managing the Delegation and the Project. In the future, a
distribution of powers would be advisable.
To facilitate Project implementation, the World Bank had authorized in 1988 the establishment of a special
account at CNCAS with a balance of I billion CFA francs. The account was perceived, until 1993, as being
intended to pay for current expenditures under the project, except for investment costs incurred under
contract and for which payment was handled directly by World Bank Fleadquarters. In addition, the
understanding of project staff was that the replenishment of the special account could only be requested
when expenditures out of it had reached 80% of the initial endowment. The first request for replenishmenit
was submitted only once that had happened. This situation caused the Bank to believe that no expenditures
had been made out of the Special Account, and called into question the very purpose of the Account.
The lesson learned from this experience is that task managers at the World Bank did not adequately explain
to SAED from the outset all the mechanics of the Special Account's functioning. If this had occurred, the
replenishment of the Account would have happened at regular intervals, which would have enabled the
Bank to monitor its status more easily.
In addition, the question of the exemption from duties and taxes posed huge difficulties, for the project as
well as for contractors and suppliers. All the formulas set up for this purpose by the Ministry of Economy



-26 -
and Finance proved ineffective. The Ministry finally decided in April 1993, on an exceptional basis, to
grant the project a totally tax-exempt status.
2-2. Technical Aspects of Project Implementation
2-2-1. Physical installations
The project's quantitative objectives were attained in a satisfactory manner. Indeed, all the irrigated cells
slated for rehabilitation were completed, as were three perimeters for which heavy maintenance work was
performed following a decision made during project implementation. The perimeters and surface areas
affected add up to 5,513 ha rehabilitated and 525 ha having undergone heavy maintenance. These figures
break down as follows:
-Rehabilitation
- Boundoum           1,600 ha
- Dagana A and B     2,643 ha
- Thiagar            1,270 ha
- Heavy maintenance works
- Thil&ne            105 ha
- Pont Gendarme      107 ha
- Kassak Sud         250 ha
As for the costs of these infrastructures, it should be noted that substantial overruns occurred as a result of
severai unfavorable factors, including:
- the time gap between the rehabilitation studies and the actual works themselves.  At least three years
elapsed between the end of the studies and the beginning of works. This resulted in the aging of
installations and in a more serious degree of deterioration than had been foreseen.
- the policy of transferring management of hydraulic infrastructures to farmers' organizations, which
obliged SAED to deliver much more viable installations to those organizations.
- inflation, which influeniced the cost of inputs.
2-2-2. Management of Installations by Farmers' Organizations
Modernization works that were begun in 1990 on a total irrigated area of 6,038 ha were followed, from a
managerial standpoint, by their transfer to the relevant farmers' organizations according to the terms of
concessionaires' contracts. Under this new scheme, the farmers' organizations (the concessionaires) assume
all tasks related to management, operation and maintenance of the irrigated paddies.
Guidelines on maintenance and management were written up by SAED to serve as management guides for
the leaders of farmers' organizations. The latter also attended appropriate training sessions on technical
management (water management. development and implementation of cropping season plans, maintenance
and operation of pumping stations, maintenance of installations, etc.) and financial management and
accounting (bookkeeping, monitoring of repayments and marketing, etc.).



-27 -
Despite all the efforts made with farmers, especially efforts at consciousness-raising on the subject of
maintenance of hydraulic infrastructures, the adoption and actual realization of this theme remain
problematic. These problems are exacerbated by the current agricultural credit problems which force the
entities in charge of managing the transferred installations to either dip into their term deposit reserves, or to
use reserves intended as loan guarantees, in order to satisfy the demands of CNCAS.
2-2-3. Agricultural Credit and Agricultural Land Development
Agricultural credit and agricultural land development are closely linked. The impact of agricultural credit is
quite considerable in the project area. The US$ 7.4 million line of credit made available to the CNCAS was
not exclusively earmarked, during implementation, for operations specific to the Fourth Irrigation Project.
About 45% of it was also used to finance private irrigation operations, and the remaining 55% was devoted
to the needs of the perimeters being rehabilitated. This created problems, especially at Dagana A and B,
where once could observe unmet (or only partially met) credit needs for inputs, from the beginning of land
development. This situation had the impact that one might expect on the productivity of this perimeter.
In general, the agricultural credit program revealed the limits of its sustainability in the high rate of non-
payment (the rate of recovery fell from 90% in 1990/91 to less than 50% in 1992/93, and then rose again to
about 63% during the dry off-season of 1994/95). This was attributable to several factors, the most
important of which were:
- an unfavorable environment;
- a lack of standards for the credit system from its inception;
- bad faith on the part of producers;
-.the creation of black markets in order to avoid repayment of debts to CNCAS;
- the slowness of marketing and difficulties inherent in the local rice sub-sector.
In the context of a plan for redressing and re-launching the credit system, CNCAS has reorganized itself and
developed a strategy of "proximity" (i.e., to its clients), while substantially reducing the volume of credit
granted to producers.
As for agricultural land development, the rehabilitation of perimeters was mainly concerned with rice and
yields are, on average, over 5 tons per hectare, as the attached tables show. Only Dagana A and B was
exploited to a significant degree for industrial-scale tomato production because of the texture and low
salinity of that perimeter.
Cropping intensity observed in the various perimeters remained in a range of 110 to 125%, which is low
compared to the goal of 160%, although it can be explained by the following factors:
- weakness of the agricultural credit system;
- slowness of the research/development services in providing producers with rice varieties adapted
to the rice-rice cropping sequence. It is hoped, however, that the Sahel 108 varietal series, and
especially Sahel 201 and Sahel 202, which have been undergoing pre-extension trials for the past



-28 -
year, will make it possible to eliminate or mitigate the varietal constraints associated with rice-
rice double cropping.
- rehabilitation works on the left bank dike, which required that the Diama dam be regulated to low
water levels, which in turn affected water supply to the perimeters during the hot off-season.
All these constraints are currently resolving themselves, and crop diversification with new programs for
high-quality groundnuts and irrigated cotton will be a reality by the time the 1996 rainy season arrives.
2-2-4. Accompanying Components
The project's accompanying components -- research/development, reforestation and human health -- yielded
unsatisfactory results. Research and development carried out by ISRA (Institut Senegalais de Recherches
Agricoles) yielded rather poor results and their impact on rice production and diversification was scarcely
felt by producers.
As regards reforestation, its expansion and development in the irrigated perimeters was hampered by a lack
of safeguards for the new trees, the fact that double cropping did not become the general rule, and perhaps
by the system of organization inherent to collective perimeters. Indeed, reforestation proceeded well in
private perimeters, despite the constraints mentioned above.
The human health component, which had only limited resources, established health posts and allowed for
the training of village-level health personnel. However, the prevalence of certain water-bome illnesses, such
as bilharzia, requires a more sustained effort by donors with a view to eradicating those maladies that pose a
handicap for rural populations in the project area.
Finally; from the institutional standpoint, the restructuring of SAED went smoothly. It resulted in SAED's
gradual withdrawal from agricultural credit, cropping practices and installations, marketing and processing
of paddy rice. A corollary of this process was the significant reduction in staff numbers, which fell from
about 1,000 employees in 1987 to 305 in 1995.



-29 -
Republic of Senegal
Ministry of Agriculture
Societe nationale d'amenagement et d'exploitation des terres du delta du fleuve senegal
et des vallees du fleuve Senegal et de la faleme (SAED)
SAED: Delegation de dagana
AVERAGE YIELP AN   D ESTI          PRODUCTION PER SEASON
IN  ERMETRSTRANSFERRED BETWEEN 1991 AND 1996
Boundoum
Rainy season                            Hot off-season
Agricultu
ral Year
Areas         Yield        Production      Areas         Yield    Production
(ha)         (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)         (T/ha)      (T)
1991/92         825,70          5,40        4458,78         822,52
1992/93         784,06          6,30        4939,58                               --
1993/94         789,29          6,80        5367,17        452,17        5,01     2265,37
1994/95        1456,64          5,30        7720,19         778,16       5,00     3890,80
1995/96        1550,58          5,15        7985,49 ____________________^_____i______
Thiagar
Agricultu                Rainy season                            Hot off-season
ral Year
Areas         Yield        Production      Areas         Yield    Production
(ha)         (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)         (T/ha)      (T)
1990/90        1584,33          5,80        9189,11         191,10       6,80     1299,48
1991/92        1558,16          5,80        9037,33         548,88       6,04     3315,23
1992/93        1479,00          4,50        6655,00         363,42       6,20     2253,20
1993/94        1584,00          5,10        8078,40         633,40       4,80     3040,32
1994/95        1035,73          4,60        4764,36        248,45        5,28     1306,53
1995/96         897,06          4,58        4108,53         7777___________________i ______ij_____



-30 -
Pont-Gendarme
Agric.                  Rainy season                             Hot off-season
Year        Areas          Yield       Production       Areas        Yield     Production
(ha)          (T/ha)          (T)          (ha)         (T/ha)       (T)
1990/91         159,12           6,33        1007,22        107,28        7,30      873,14
1991/92         151,90           4,67         709,37       204,90         6,20     1270,38
1992/93                                            --            --                --
1993/94         212,31           5,40        1146,47        196,51        5,66     1112,24
1994/95          32.27           5,42         1 75,45            --                --
1995/96         202,84           5,07        1028,40_
Cool off-season: Estimated tomato production
1992/3:
Area cultivated = 55.63 hectares
Average yield = 20 T/ha
Estimated production: 1,113 tons
1994/95:
Area cultivated = 24.71 hectares
Average yield = 15.29 T/ha
Estimated production: 378 tons
Thilene
Agric.                  Rainy season                            Hot off-season
Year       Areas          Yield        Production      Areas        Yield     P. oduction
(ha)         (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)       (T/ha)        (T)
1990/91         104,39          4,18         436,35        111,56        8,00      873,14
1991/92                                                     11,00       7,40       821,40
1992/93                                                    122,16       6,00       732,96
1993/94                                                         --                 --
1994/95         110,93          5,42         601,24
1995/95         124,25          6,82         847,38



-31 -
Kassak sud
Agric.                  Rainy Season                             Hot off-season
Year        Areas          Yield        Production      Areas        Yield     Production
(ha)          (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)        (T/ha)        (T)
1991/92          242,42           4,80        1163,61
1992/93          248,18           4,00        992.,72
1993/94          250,00           4,70        1175,00                             --
1994/95                I              I-I                                -     I
1995/96          254.02           2.49         632,51  __               i        __:_
Dagana A
Agric.                  Rainy season                             Hot off-season
Year
Areas          Yield        Production      Areas        Yield     Production
(ha)          (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)       (T/ha)        (T)
1992/93         671,67           4,00        2686,68 -
1993/94         671,00           5,10        3422,10                -
1994/95         330,00           6,09        2009,70
1995/96         414,31    Not avail.         -X
Cool off-season: Estimated tomato production
The 1994/95 cool cropping season occurred in very unfavorable conditions, for three reasons, namely the
liberalization of the sub-sector, the CFAF devaluation and a widespread locust (Aculops Lycapersicis)
problem at the time of flowering and harvesting.
Areas cultivated = 198.54 hectares
Average yield = 15,29 T/ha
Estimated production: 3,036 tons
Dagana B
Agric.                  Rainy season                             Hot off-season
Year        Areas          Yield        Production      Areas        Yield      Production
(ha)          (T/ha)          (T)           (ha)        (T/ha)       (T)
1992/93        1258,00           2,50        3 145,00
1993/94        1116.12           5,17        5773,63                            -
1994/95         940,68           4,59        4317,72
1995/96         296,35   Not available       -



-32 -
Cool off-season: Estimated tomato production
1992/3:
Areas cultivated= 131.04 hectares
Average yield = 20 T/ha
Estimated production: 2,620 tonls
Areas cultivated = 215.83 hectares
Average yield = 15.29 T/lia
Estimated production: 3,300 tons






I8RO 15909f
I  /'   A R^iGE A  ' ,. OAVUAI' .                                                                                               13 *T120*b"                        E N  E G  A  L
SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEA
~~~::'~*#~~-N  -~~-~                                           --  \              MAURITANIA ~~IRRIGATION  IV PROJECT
SARAA6.\ 4 Y                       D4                             ATAV                                                      MAURITANIA                               BOUNDOUM,THIAGAR,AND DAGANA SCHEMES
LBANR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(DO9SL                                                                                                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCATION OF PRIOJECT SCHEIMES
P j  j \ s \   ; OD O R  \   <                                                               *    LOCATION OF BAIN RIGATION DEVELOPMENTS
ATLANTIC 0C0                                                                                                                  _______ AREAS COMPRISING VILLAGE PERIMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAS OMRIINGILAGPERMEEI
ATLANTIC OCEANVIRRIGATION DIVISION BOUNDARIES IS6-
____________________________L____                                                                                                                                               SAED  S    EIADOOURTERS
.     NATIONAL CAPITALS
® DIVISION HEADQAARTERS
O    MAIN VILLAGES
*    ICE MILLS
ROADS
ATLANTIC                                                                                                                 - /                                                 -    INTERNATIONALBOUNOARIES
DAIIAE +
MALI
OCEAN <s-l
EANIAL  OATAAIA    /                    --                                                 AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMETE RS ID
-                                   GA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MBIA1
*                Im                              IS' \  __\
*-              ,               -               e               >                              * P2   /   \ 13- -\ ~ \- 20 40 i2                                       EE 10 0
#~~~~~~~ ~                   - --  - -r -,  -r -2 -. - -4 -
SEPTEMBER 1Ws









IMAGING
Report No.:         16548
Type.     ICR



