OFFICIAL
DOGUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1855 SE
Project Agreement
(Irrigation IV Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D' AMENAGEMENT ET D' EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
ET DES VALLEES DU FLEUVE
SENEGAL ET DE LA FALEME
and
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
DU SENEGAL
Dated                             , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1855 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1988, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSCIATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION DES TERRES DU
DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DES VALLEES DU FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DE LA
FALEME (SAED) and CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE DU SENEGAL
(CNCAS);
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,200,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SAED and
CNCAS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Grant Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SAED, certain proceeds of Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SAED
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Grant Agreement;
(C) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CNCAS, certain proceeds of this Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to CNCAS on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS   SAED   and   CNCAS,   in  consideration   of   the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SAED and CNCAS declare their comi,itment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement. To this end: (i) SAED shall carry
out Parts A, B, D, E, and F of the Project; Part G in coopera-
tion with ISRA; Part H in cooperation with DCSR; and Part I in
cooperation with CREDO-SAHEL; and (ii) CNCAS shall carry out
Part C of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,  financial,
engineering, irrigation and rural development practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SAED shall, for the purpose of the execution of
Part I of the Project, make the proceeds of the Credit allocated
thereto available to CREDO-SAHEL, under a Subsidiary Grant
Agreement acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SAED and CNCAS shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. SAED and CNCAS shall duly perform all their
obligations under the Grant Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, respectively. Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, SAED and CNCAS shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Grant Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
respectively, or any provision thereof.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. For purpose of assisting CNCAS in carrying out
Part C of the Project, SAED shall take all necessary measures to
fulfill its obligations under the Protocol dated February 27,
1987, agreed upon between SAED and CNCAS.
Section 2.06. SAED shall: (a) implement the staff reduction
plan, provided in the Lettre de Mission in accordance with the
timetable set forth in said Lettre de Mission; and (b) by
June 30, 1988, prepare and submit to the Association for its
comments an estimate of further staff reduction for the period
June 30, 1990, through June 30, 1993.
Section 2.07. SAED shall, promptly after double-cropping is
available to farmers in the Project Area, charge for the water
supplied to such farmers, a price equal to the operation and
maintenance costs of SAED's Water Management Department on the
basis of cost accounting principles generally accepted.
Section 2.08. (a) SAED and CNCAS shall, not later than
January 1 and June 30 in each year the Project is executed,
exchange views jointly with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, the Grant Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Lettre de Mission, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SAED and CNCAS shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SAED and CNCAS of their obliga"
tions under this Agreement, the Grant Agreement, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the Lettre de Mission.
Section 2.09. SAED shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1988 complete a draft plan for development of new irrigated land
to be cultivated in the perimeters referred to in Part A of the
Project and promptly furnish said plan to the Association for its
comments; and
(b) the plan parcellaire to be included in the draft plan
referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be designed in accor-
dance with economic and technical efficiency requirements
generally followed in the irrigation field.


﻿-4-
Section 2.10. SAED shall, upon the Association's request,
review periodically its investment program with the Association-.
To this end, SAED shall furnish to the Association, all informa-
tion, including any feasibility study prepared for the carry-
ing out of any irrigation project, as the Association shall
reasonably request.
Section 2.11. CNCAS shall: (a) keep separate accounts and
records for all short-term credit operations made by CNCAS pur-
suant to this Agreement; (b) not later than March 31 in each
year, prepare a report in such detail as shall be reasonably
requested by the Association on progress achieved in the imple-
mentation of the credit operations referred to in paragraph (a)
above; (c) review said report with the Borrower and the Associa-
tion not later than April 30 in each year; and (d) promptly
thereafter, implement all measures required by the Borrower
in agreement with the Association as a result of the review
mentioned in paragraph (c) above.
Section 2.12. For any credit made by CNCAS pursuant to this
Agreement, CNCAS shall apply the lending terms and conditions set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAED and CNCAS
Section 3.01. SAED and CNCAS shall carry on their opera-
tions and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound adminis-
trative, financial and rural development practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SAED and CNCAS shall at all times operate and
maintain their plant, machinery, equipment and other property
and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and rural development practices.
Section 3.03. SAED and CNCAS shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAED and CNCAS shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
(b) SAED and CNCAS shall:
(i) have their records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
their financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, SAED and CNCAS shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the Fiscal Year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SAED and CNCAS thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accodance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement terminates      in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SAED and CNCAS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Developr4ent Association
1818 H Street, N.W. 0
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           44009,8 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SAED:
Sociftf Nationale d'Am6nagement
et d'Exploitation des Terres
du Delta du Fleuve Sfnfgal et
des Vallfes du Fleuve Sfnfgal
et de la Falfm6
P.O. Box 74
St. Louis,
Rfpublique du S&nigal
Telex:
715 33-SG


﻿-8-
For CNCAS:
Caisse Nationale de Cr&dit Agricole
du S&n&gal
14 Rue Docteur Aristide le Dantec
B. P. 3890, Dakar,
Sfnfgal
Telex:
3345 CRAGRI-SG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SAED and CNCAS may be taken or executed
by SAED's Director-General and CNCAS's Director-General or such
other person or persons as SAEP and CNCAS shall respectively
designate in. writing, and SAED .and CNCAS shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of such persons.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional  ice President
Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT ET
D'EXPLOITATION DES TERRES DU DELTA DU
FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DES VALLEES DU
FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DE LA FALEME
By /S/ d&~/~(
Authorized Representative
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
DU SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Prefarence for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, SAED may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guide-
lines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost $100,000 equiva-
lent or less may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Maintenance works for the irrigation network may be carried
out by force account.
3.   Contracts for spare parts, materials and supplies estimated
to cost:
(a) more than $20,000 equivalent may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b) less than $20,000 equivalent may be procured by
directly negotiated purchase.


﻿- 11 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of any of the
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of any of the Special Accounts,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SAED in carrying out the Project, SAED
shall employ agricultural, management, agro-economical, engineer-
ing, electricity, mechanical, auditing, accounting and computer
programming consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the


