Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3569-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE1S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982         March 1983
Currency Unit        =                   Yemeni Dinars (YD)         YD
US$ 1                                       YD 0.345            0.345
YD1                                         US$2.90             2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31                 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31                  (1975)
January 1 to December 31             (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
HC     -  Health Center
HE     -  Health Education
HG     -  Health Guide
HU     -  Health Unit
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IHMD   -  Institute for Health Manpower Development
MOPH   -  Ministry of Public Health
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PDRY   -  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PHC    -  Primary Health Care
TBA    -  Traditional Birth Attendant
TST    -  Training and Supervision Team
UNCDF  -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNICEF -  United Nations Children's Fund
WHO   -   World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount:                 SDRs 7 million (about US$ 7.6 million equivalent)
Terms;                  Standard IDA
Project
Description:            The project seeks to improve the health status of the
population in the three governorates of Lahej, Abyan
and Hadramawt through a cost-effective primary heath
care approach. To achieve this primary objective, the
project would help; strengthen and improve health
services, with special emphasis on ten priority health
problems; upgrade the skills of existing paramedical
personnel, and train new categories of outreach
voluntary health workers; develop and implement a
community health education program; and strengthen the
management capacity of the Ministry of Public Health.
By increasing the number of trained community midwives
and by developing popular awareness of family planning
issues, the project would also help address the
shortage of female paramedicals and encourage the
further development of family planning services. The
project would include: (i) upgrading and repairs of 139
health units, the construction of 55 health units and
furniture and equipment for these facilities; (ii)
health education materials; (iii) training of medical
personnel and technical and support staff; and iv)
technical assistance. The population served in the
three governorates as a result of the project would
increase from 449,000 to about 1.3 million, or 83
percent of the estimated 1987 population. Among the
beneficiaries would be included about 49,000 infants,
190,000 children and more than 282,000 women of
reproductive age. The limited management capacity of
the Ministry of Public Health is the major risk faced
by the project. The project has been designed to
minimize this risk through the appointment of
experienced staff in the Project Implementation Unit,
the reorientation of ongoing multilateral technical
assistance and the provision of technical assistance
under the project.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost; 1/
Local Foreign Total
-----US$ million
Health Units                                             3.1      3.6        6.7
Health Education                                         -        0.2        0.2
Training                                                 0.6      -         0.6
Strengthening MOPH                                       0.6      0.6        1.2
Project Preparation Facility                             0.1      0.2        0.3
Base Cost                                                4.4      4.6        9.0
Physical Contingencies                                   0.2      0.3        0.5
Price Contingencies                                      0.6      0.3       0.9
Total Project Cost                                    5.2     5.2       10.4
1/ Excluding duties and taxes which are not levied on development projects in
PDRY.
Financing Plan;
Local  Foreign    Total
U----- US$ Million-----
Government                                              1.4       0.4        1.8
IDA                                                     3.6      4.0        7.6
WHO                                                     0.1       0.5        0.6
UNICEF                                                  0.1       0.3        0.4
Total                                                   5.2       5.2       10.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
-----------…US$ 1miion--------
Annual                                        0.9    2.2    2.5       1.3    0.7
Cumulative                                    0.9    3.1    5.6       6.9    7.6
Rate of Return;                        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                No.4324-YDR dated May 4, 1983



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN FOR
A HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 7 million (about US$7.6 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Health Development Project. The Government has obtained $0.6
million of cofinancing from the World Health Organization (WHO) and $0.4
million from the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and is seeking about
$7 milliotn equivalent in cofinancing to complete the financing of three
regional paramedical schools and three medical stores. They would complement
the proposed project, which is however self contained and fully justified on
its own merits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) with a population of 1.9 million
(mid-1981) covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km
along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with
sparse vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural
production is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total
cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's
land surface. The one major resource is fish, which is not yet fully
exploited. The majority of the population lives on the narrow coastal plain
along the Gulf.  There is also a concentration of population in the Wadi
Hadramawt, a large fertile valley in the centre of the country. The rest of
the population, of which 10 percent is bedouin live in small scattered
communities.  There are also an estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside
PDRY. Except for the oil refinery at Little Aden, there is little industrial
activity in the country. The country is still at a low level of development,
its institutions are relatively weak and its per capita income was $420 in
1980.
1/ Part I and Annex I of this report are substantially the same as those in
the President's Report for the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
(P-3494-YDR) which was approved by the Executive Directors on April 12,
1983.



-2-
Development Objectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to independence in 1967, the economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and
budgetary support from the British. Following independence the Government has
sought to diversify the economy and carry economic development to all parts of
the country. Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a planned
economic system. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a)
to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer
goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services; (b) to
develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture,
fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the
infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to
raise education standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e)
to increase exports of domestic products.
5.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on
a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing
and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
6.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have re-
gained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account
for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding
government services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector
and is strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and
transport. The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen
sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment.
Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in some areas,
such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now
active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in oil
exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction. The response has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning
from abroad and private foreign investors but unfortunately the Government is
not yet in a position to offer significant assistance by way of feasibility
studies or suitable projects.



-3-
7.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased largely through higher imports.  School enrollment
rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while
more recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment but created some labor shortages.
8.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
19). Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in large
part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agriculture and
fisheries. Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors, agricultural
and fish production have stagnated in the last 5-6 years. However, since an
increasing amount of product can be sold in the free market, the official
output statistics may increasingly understate the level of production and thus
the performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
9.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined above (see para 4). The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981. The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture
and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent for transport and
communications, 8 percent for education and health and 18 percent for
housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be
financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400 million had
already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The production
targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent
per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for industry, 9 percent
for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9 percent for transport and
communications. Production growth is to be achieved not, only through new
investments but also through improved utilization of existing capacities. The
plan, which is currently in its third year of implementation, achieved very
high implementation ratios during the first two years i.e., in 1981 about 80
percent and in 1982 about 90 percent of annual investment targets.
Implementation ratios were about 90 percent in industry, agriculture and
fisheries and 80 percent in social services. Nearly 60 percent of development
expenditure was financed through foreign sources and the rest from domestic
sources.
10.      In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The



-4-
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
11.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country
is now generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could be eased through
joint ventures with foreign contractors.
12.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages
of trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion
of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
13.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. In 1981
development expenditures increased substantially to $305 million reflecting
the special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects. Current
government expenditures for education, health and more recently defense,
continued to grow through 1981 both in nominal and real terms.
14.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have accel-
erated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 6 percent during 1974-80,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73.  The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated. To some extent



- 5 -
the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was the result of
labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the factors referred to
above (see para. 12).
15.       Tentative estimates for 1981 show an increase in real GDP of about
6-8 percent. Agriculture production grew for the first time since 1975 by
about 5 percent while construction grew by about 20 percent. Industrial
production on the other hand slowed down in 1981 due to technical problems,
congestion in the port of Aden, and low capacity utilization of the oil
refinery. Fish production appears to have declined in 1981. Even though key
economic indicators for 1982 are not completely available, economic growth
appears to have slowed down in that year. The floods of March 1982 inflicted
severe damage to the agricultural sector causing crop losses both for domestic
consumption and exports. Similarly, industrial output is expected to show
only a small increase due to shortage of raw materials.
16.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation.
New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition,
profits of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public
sector income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $362 million in 1981. This
still left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $342
million in 1981.
17.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Gross foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 they dropped to $87 million
due in part to the decline in public investments. However, foreign aid
inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 ($169 million) and again in 1981 ($319
million).
18.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth
in investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $763 million in 1981.  Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports represented food and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within
PDRY; these pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels
especially in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank
financing of public sector expenditures.
19.       Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a
minor share of the import bill. In 1981, they were estimated to be about $28
million or some 4 percent of commodity imports. Much more important than



-6-
coummodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $415 million in 1981.
This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to
additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized remittance
financed imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered
higher interest rates to non-resident bank depositors.  Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $255 million at end
1981, equivalent to about 4 months of imports.
20.       Preliminary balance of payments estimates, for 1982 indicate a
further increase in the current account deficit. The principal factors
responsible for this trend were (1) growing imports due to the floods of 1982
and the intensification of the development effort, and (2) a slow down in
workers' remittances following levelling off in wages and reduced construction
activities in the oil rich labor importing countries. Moreover, disbursements
of official loans and grants declined sharply forcing the country to draw on
its reserves. Remittances could slow further as they did in the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) while debt service payments are expected to increase sharply in
the coming years.
Impact of Flood Damages
21.       In late March 1982, unusual floods caused extensive economic damage
in PDRY. Heavy rains fell continuously for about three days damaging arable
land, infrastructure and buildings throughout most of the country. In many
places, the rainfall exceeded 10 inches during the three day period and water
descended from the mountain slopes surrounding the area and swept away
villages causing substantial losses to agricultural areas and crops,
livestock, roads and bridges and equipment. The most seriously affected areas
are in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan
Governorates were seriously affected due to erosion of the wadi banks thus
washing away large tracts of agricultural lands and residential property.
Along the wadis, most feeder and on-farm roads have also been washed away.
Hence, much of PDRY's limited spate irrigated infrastructure is now in need of
rehabilitation, repair and probably in need of basic redesign and
reconstruction. The Zinjibar bridge in the Abyan Governorate has been totally
destroyed as have numerous sections of the main Aden Al Mukalla coastal road
linking the capital to other governorates and the branch to Wadi Ahwar in
Abyan Governorate. Thus, the disaster was reputedly the largest in recent
history. Official estimates list 500 people dead, 25,000 houses destroyed and
50,000 head of livestock lost with physical damage of between $250 million and
$500 million in total cost.
22.      Surveys on the overall impact of the floods on the economy indicate
that a substantial portion of the seasonal crops viz cotton, cereals, fruits
and vegetables have been destroyed and prospects for resumption of such crops
in the affected areas in the near future are uncertain.  It would take up to 2
to 3 years before production could be resumed. Similarly, the damage to
highways and bridges is quite extensive and although emergency works have
already been completed, it will take about two years to complete full



-7-
reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Government has already begun
rehabilitation, repair and reconstruction works to avoid further damage to
wadi beds and agricultural land from subsequent flooding. It has begun to
place orders for imports of machinery and equipment as well as building
materials with assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors.
23.      The damage to agricultural crops had a serious impact on the domestic
food supply and exports. Apart from the export losses, the economy has to
bear additional costs in the immediate period arising out of the necessity to
import substantial amounts of foodstuffs to replace lost agricultural output
and essential materials, machinery and spare parts to repair flood damaged
infrastructure. While final balance of payments data are not yet available,
the additional balance of payments burden caused by the floods during 1982 is
tentatively estimated at between US$55-60 million. The impact on the 1982
budget is expected to be substantial ranging up to YD 20 million or about 10
percent of total expenditures. Emergency repair and reconstruction work is
underway with the assistance from multilateral agencies and donor countries.
PDRY has already received emergency assistance of $16.8 million from the
International Monetary Fund and $7 million from IDA for flood recovery
program. In addition, emergency assistance of about $6 million from UN
agencies and some external assistance in the form of project loans have been
provided. These cash and in-kind grants have so far been for relief purposes
and their magnitude is small. The need to import additional food,
construction materials and capital equipment to replace losses will no doubt
have a negative impact on PDRY's balance of payments in the medium term.
Hence, PDRY requires an increased flow of material and financial assistance
from the international community.
External Debt
24.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1981
amounted to $1,404 million, of which $651 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $1,009 million or 72 percent of total commitments with
the USSR providing the bulk ($591 million), followed by China ($149 million),
other Eastern European countries ($158 million), and Arab countries ($111
million). By the end of 1981 multilateral flows amounted to $395 million
including $252 million from Arab Funds, $111 million from IDA I/ and $32
million from IMF. The terms of all loans are highly concessionary.
In addition, PDRY has received $398 million in grant assistance during
1974/81, mostly from Arab countries.
25.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1981 were $11
million or 3.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started
to rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments.  Therefore, in view of
the country's low income level and low level of development, the Bank's
assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason,
local cost financing by IDA is justified.
1/ This amount is now $143.6 million (see para. 28).



26.       In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (see para. 5). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of
all the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the national-
ized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to
the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978,
and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and with a bank
in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is
aware has however been very slow since there is still no agreement on a basis
on which to settle this claim. The Government has stated its desire to reach
mutually acceptable settlements with all claimant companies.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
27.       IDA's lending program  in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
28.       PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 22 operations in PDRY 2/, for a total commitment
of $143.6 million. Of this total, $39.8 million has assisted the transport
sector, $50.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $21.5 million the
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Second Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development
Project (P-3494-YDR) which was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 12, 1983.
2/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038.



power and energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, and $16.6 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from
delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included
the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in re-
cruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors,
inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years shortages of both
skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being
properly implemented even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA
credits in PDRY continues to be satisfactory. It is superior to other
countries in the Middle East and compares favorably with the Bankwide
average. This trend is expected to continue. Lessons learned from experience
with delays and cost overruns in earlier projects are being taken into account
in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
29.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
water supply project for the town of Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt is at an
advanced stage of preparation. Project possibilities in agriculture,
fisheries, industry, transport, education and power are also under
consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects
are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to
PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development
agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through
mid FY83, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects about $143
million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $1.5 million; Kuwait Fund
$26 million; Arab Fund $49.5 million; Islamic Development Bank $11 million,
Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $22 million, IFAD $11 million and EEC
$6.4 million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid to the
country.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Introduction
30.      About one-third of the total population of PDRY lives in urban areas,
about 55 percent live in rural areas and 10 percent are nomadic. On the basis
of an estimated growth rate of 2.6%, total population in mid-1981 was about
1.9 million, of which 1.4 million lived in the three Governorates of Lahej,
Abyan and Hadramawt. The country's total fertility rate is one of the highest
in the world, and the comparatively lower rate of natural increase of the
population is mainly the consequence of low health standards and a high infant
mortality rate. While the Government's principal and understandable concern
at present is the reduction of morbidity and mortality, it also recognizes
that a decline in fertility will be necessary to improve per capita economic
growth rate, living standards, and maternal and child health. The Government
has adopted an official policy of birth spacing and, in the main cities,
family planning is well accepted; however, the expansion of family planning
services is seriously hampered by the shortage of female paramedicals and
social workers, which is severe in the cities and critical in rural areas.
National planners recognize that interventions to improve the health status of
the population should be accompanied by a parallel effort to slow down
fertility. The Family Law of 1974 which introduced major reforms for the



- 10 -
emancipation of women in PDRY inter alia abolished child marriages, raised the
minimum legal ages for marriage to 16 for women and 18 for men, and instituted
compulsory civil registration of marriages.  The Government has also made
major and successful efforts to open up employment and education opportunities
to women. However, while dramatic gains in terms of reducing infant mortality
can be obtained relatively quickly and at relatively low cost, fertility
decline is a much more difficult process and will occur at a much slower pace.
Health Status
31.      PDRY's health status is among the worst in the Middle-East and North
Africa region: the total fertility rate is in the 6.2-7.0 range, the crude
birth rate 45-48 per thousand, the crude death rate 16-21 per thousand, and
the infant mortality rate 146-155 per thousand live births; estimates for
maternal mortality range between 100 and 500 per 100,000 deliveries, and are
more likely to be at the upper end. Life expectancy at birth is only about
45-47 years. The country is still in the first stage of epidemiological
transition where the health status of the population is primarily affected by
communicable, infectious and parasitic diseases, and underlying malnutrition.
Tropical diseases, although present in PDRY, do not have an overwhelming
weight on the epidemiological profile. The health status is also affected by
chronic infectious diseases due to complications or persistence of common
ailments that would recede if basic health care were accessible.
32.      Data are fragmented and incomplete but an epidemiological assessment
conducted in 1979 with the assistance of the World Health Organization (WHO)
resulted in the establishment of a list of ten priority health problems in
PDRY. Communicable diseases of childhood rank first among these priority
health problems, with measles and whooping cough the two major killers for
this age group; poliomyelitis and tetanus are frequent in rural areas, and
diptheria is still present. The prevalence of malaria, the second priority,
is extremely high, and it is likely that as much as two-thirds of the
population live in endemic areas. Diarrhea, the third priority, is the major
single cause of under-five mortality. Acute respiratory infections
(pneumonitis, pneumonia and bronchopneumonia), the fourth priority, are also a
leading cause of infant mortality. Tuberculosis, the fifth priority, has a
very high prevalence rate. Anemia the sixth and malnutrition the seventh
priority are closely linked and together account for 58 percent of new
patients recorded annually. Malnutrition is undoubtedly the most serious
underlying general health problem in the country. Communicable eye diseases
(mainly trachoma and conjunctivitis), the eighth priority, have an extremely
high prevalence rate. High perinatal and maternal mortality rates, the ninth
and tenth priorities, are due to socio-cultural and nutritional factors as
well as deficiencies of health services. Other diseases (leprosy,
salmonellosis, hepatitis, dysentery and amoebiasis) account for a significant
part of morbidity and would be more difficult to control. Finally, endemic
diseases such as schistosomiasis, typhoid and cholera, even if not prominent
as causes of morbidity, constitute real threats of potential epidemics.
Health Policy and Services
33.      Considerable progress has been made since independence in 1967 in
expanding the network of hospitals, health centers and health units, in



- 11 -
training medical and paramedical personnel, and in establishing nine vertical
disease control programs. Prior to the joint WHO/UNICEF International
Conference on Primary Health Care (Alma Ata, September 1978), the Government
prepared a National Health Program and, also with the assistance of WHO,
designed its strategy around a primary health care (PHC) concept with a view
to reaching the Alma Ata Conference objective of Health for All by the Year
2000. The National Health Program, which was comprehensive and identified the
needs of the sector, constitutes a very important conceptual and analytical
step.   A National Primary Health Care Council was created, the curricula for
paramedical training was revised, new job descriptions and drugs lists were
prepared, and two pilot schemes were implemented in two governorates.
However, because of limited financial resources and managerial capacity within
the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), little more has been done.
34.      PDRY's health infrastructure, though modest, has some positive
attributes: the mix of facilities is well balanced; peripheral facilities are
relatively well distributed and, when upgraded, would provide basic health
coverage to all major clusters of population. Moreover, health policy is
strongly oriented to low-cost primary health care and to improving the
efficiency of rather than expanding the size of the existing system.   The
first level of care is provided by 300 dispensaries or health units (HUs)
consisting of small buildings, staffed by one or two (male) nurses. The HUs
provide simple curative care to a population of 3,000-5,000; except in the two
districts where Health Guides (HGs) exist (see para. 39), the HU has no
outreach capacity and its effective coverage is limited; however, drug
supplies are usually adequate for their present limited functions.  The second
level of care is provided by 18 health centers (HCs), often larger
dispensaries which were upgraded and equipped with beds, and staffed with one
physician and/or medical assistant, nurses, midwives and laboratory and
pharmacy technicians. Each HC delivers primary health care to the local
population (up to 15,000 persons), and also serves as a referral for secondary
care, through outpatient consultations and inpatient care. At the third
level are 29 hospitals with a total capacity of 2,500 beds, i.e. an average of
1.3 beds for 1,000 population; seven of them, located in Aden, act as national
hospitals; in the governorates, an 80-190 bed hospital is located in the main
city; there are also a few smaller hospitals with 40-60 beds. Staffing,
quality of service, maintenance of facilities and equipment vary widely but,
in general, hospitals are relatively well run. The hospital infrastructure
represents the minimum needed for comprehensive care and would be sufficient
if well integrated in the overall delivery system.
35.      However much remains to be done both to integrate the present system
and with respect to training before the National Health Program can be
realized. Area hospitals still perform as independent bodies and provide only
minimal technical guidance and supervision to health centers which, in turn,
do not supervise the work of health units. While some health units were
physically upgraded during the Second Five Year Plan, most are in urgent need
of repair and a small number have had to be closed.  The health centers are
the weakest link in the referral system because their supervision and back-up
functions viz-a-viz the health units in their respective areas are not well
understood by the staff of the health centers.



- 12 -
36.      Paramedicals have all received a hospital-based curative-type of
training; as a consequence, while nursing services in hospitals are relatively
efficient, health personnel assigned to the periphery are not well prepared
for delivering preventive care, serving in public health or performing
community work. This staff will be reoriented through on-the-job training.
Moreover, new front-line nurses will be trained in the three regional branches
of the Institute for Health Manpower Development (IHMD) under a revised
curriculum which has been extended to two years. However, the three regional
branches are presently housed in inadequate and crowded buildings; none have
boarding facilities and students' living conditions (especially in Lahej and
Abyan) are appalling. The absence of boarding facilities makes it practically
impossible to recruit female candidates from the region who could be assigned
to their districts of origin upon graduation.
The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
37.      The MOPH is responsible for the delivery of health care services in
PDRY. The Minister is assisted by two Deputy Ministers and by six advisory
units which report directly to the Minister. The most important of these are
the General Directorate for Planning and Statistics and the Advisory
Committee. A Deputy Minister of Public Health is responsible for
administration including pharmaceutical operations, while a Deputy Minister
of Public Health Affairs is responsible for all operational activities of the
MOPH. Regional Health Directorates of the MOPH in each of the six
Governorates in PDRY are responsible for operations at the Governorate level.
Overall, the administrative and managerial capacities of the MOPH are still
inadequate, and many physicians in charge of essential activities are
relatively young and inexperienced. Vertical programs (malaria, tuberculosis,
immunizations, etc.) are not integrated into a comprehensive delivery system
and reporting and evaluation procedures remain informal. Although all
Governorates suffer from a lack of qualified personnel the uneven distribution
of the few qualified personnel is also a problem. Shortages are particularly
serious in the categories of technicians, sanitarians, midwives, supervisors
and outreach agents. The almost complete absence of women as nurses and
female paramedicals in rural areas is a fundamental weakness of the present
system.
Health Manpower
38.      The MOPH has 3,300 staff.  There are 147 physicians in the country,
including 95 nationals trained abroad. The Aden Faculty of Medicine was
created in 1975, and the first group of 52 locally-trained physicians
graduated in 1982; the annual output of the school will vary between 50 and 70
during the next seven years. Since its establishment in 1970, the IHMD has
trained about 3,000 paramedicals (mostly males) in 15 different categories.
The IHMD is located in Aden and also operates three regional branches to train
additional practical nurses for the first level of care. Its present output
is about 300 paramedicals per year.
39.      The new category of outreach health worker, the Health Guide (HG),
has the potential to make a significant impact on health services coverage in
the near future. The HG is a volunteer selected by the community. He works



- 13 -
under the supervision of Health Unit staff, as a health agent for 300-1000
persons, watching and reporting health conditions, giving simple advice on
basic health problems and sanitation, delivering simple health education
messages, providing first aid and elementary treatment for common ailments,
dispensing a few basic drugs, and facilitating referral of patients. This
approach has been successfully tested in two districts in PDRY, and is to be
expanded. Female Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) or Giddas are still
active in rural areas but are not part of the health services network.
However the MOPH is planning to use eligible TBAs as primary health care
outreach agents under the supervision of qualified community midwives.
Pharmaceutical Supplies
40.      Most facilities receive adequate and timely supplies of drugs.
However, storage and handling is carried out under precarious conditions,
especially at the governorate level. Annual expenditure on imported drugs
amount to YDI.5 million (about $2.20 per capita), a very modest level of
consumption. In addition, a variety of standard preparations are produced
locally. The MOPH controls drug utilization well and the list of authorized
drugs is realistic and limited to 800 generic and brand name products (as
compared to several thousands in most countries). The MOPH has considered the
possibility of establishing a cost-recovery mechanism for non-essential
drugs. But given the high per capita tax effort in PDRY, the low per capita
income and the various controls already in place, this is not a high priority
issue.
Community Health Education
41.      The Government gives strong support to the concept of health
education but programs which are usually carried out through mass
organizations are uncoordinated and too sporadic to be of real use. The MOPH
has recently established a Directorate for Health Education to develop a
nationwide community health education system, starting with the governorates
of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt. The various mass organizations in PDRY
(People's Defense Committees, General Union of Yemeni Women, Agricultural
Cooperatives, and Asheed, the Yemeni Youth Organization) which reach every
person in the country in both rural and urban areas provide an excellent
potential vehicle for the delivery of health education programs.
Health Expenditures
42.      Total health expenditures have been growing by more than 30 percent a
year since 1977, to reach the level of $23.5 million in 1981. Virtually all
of this has been for recurrent expenditures, which were $23.4 million in 1981
($12 per capita).  Capital expenditures in the health sector, which previously
were minimal, have now been increased sharply and are expected to be $17.7
million in 1982, that is 3.5 percent of total development expenditures
(compared to less than 1 percent in 1976). Between 1976 and 1981 the share of
health in social sectors investment increased from 6.6 percent to 11.4
percent. Over the same period capital expenditures in social sectors were
raised from 15-percent to more than 30 percent of total development
expenditures as Government began to compensate for its past neglect of
housing, water supply and sewerage and health. The share of health in



- 14 -
Government's recurrent budget was about 6 percent in 1981 compared with 5.4
percent in 1977.  These levels of expenditure on health and the balance
between capital and recurrent expenditures for health are considered
appropriate. The health sector in PDRY receives considerable technical and
limited financial assistance from six UN Agencies, the Islamic Development
Bank, the Arab Fund and at least six bilateral sources.
Primary Health Care (PHC)
43.      The primary health care approach calls for the integration over time
of all vertical activities into a comprehensive delivery system, which will
permit a much greater proportion of the population to be reached by higher
quality health care facilities in a much more cost effective manner than at
present. As defined by the MOPH primary health care consists of measures and
activities at the community level, where the national health care system is in
direct contact with individuals, families and the community. The community
shares the responsibility for PHC, while the other levels of the delivery
system provide continuous support in terms of technical knowledge,
supervision, logistics, training and referral. But this functional
integration within the MOPH will be achieved in phases, to avoid disruption in
service delivery. As a first step, the position of Director General of PHC, a
Central Council for Primary Health Care and two new units, one for Program
Development and Evaluation, the other for Training and Supervision have been
established. The present heads of the vertical programs will retain their
responsibilities for programming, preparation of guidelines and norms, quality
control, and monitoring and evaluation. Priorities have been established and
integration at the peripheral level has started with health education,
maternal and child health and family planning, and school health under the
responsibility of the Director General of PHC. Once the primary health care
network has been strengthened, integration of other vertical activities will
follow. Ultimately a Supreme PHC Council will be established at the
inter-ministerial level to ensure inter-sectoral coordination and similar PHC
Councils will be established at the local levels of government.  This process
was assisted by consultants financed under a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance to help prepare the proposed project.
44.      While most of the conditions needed to launch a viable primary health
care program are present in PDRY, the Government's resource constraints
dictate that it phase the geographical implementation of the program. The
Government has thus decided to proceed initially in three governorates, giving
priority to improving the quality and effective coverage of existing
facilities and services. This has created a favorable environment for the
proposed project, which would be IDA's first operation in PDRY's health
sector.  While other bilateral and multilateral organizations are expected to
continue their involvement in the sector, most of this aid will still be in
the form of technical assistance. IDA's principal role would, therefore, be
to provide financial assistance and, through the technical and institutional
support associated with Bank projects, to strengthen the MOPH's management and
implementation capacity.



- 15 -
PART IV -   THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
45.      A project which would help the Government implement its new health
policy was identified in 1980 and its preparation assisted by UNICEF and by
consultants financed under two advances from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) totalling $266,400. The PPF advances also financed training of key MOPH
staff to be associated with the project, a survey of health facilities in the
project area, and the preparation of a national health map. This project was
appraised by IDA but, because of lack of financing, certain components had to
be dropped at negotiations. These components, which would complement the now
proposed project, consist of the construction of three regional paramedical
schools of the IHMD including boarding facilities and the provision of
furniture and equipment, and the constructon of three regional medical stores
including the provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles. The Government
is continuing to seek about $7 million in cofinancing for these components.
The proposed project has been designed so that it is self contained and is
fully justified on its own merits. The fundamental objective of the project
would be to improve the health status of the population in the three
governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt (the project area). The approach
to be followed in the project has been successfully tested in two pilot
schemes from 1979. The project was appraised in October/November, 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1983. The delegation of the
Government of PDRY was led by Dr. Bukair, Minister of Public Health. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4324-YDR of May 4, 1983) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special conditions in the Credit Agreement are
summarized in Annex III. Three maps of the project area are attached.
46.      To achieve the basic objective, the project would help strengthen and
improve the organization and quality of care of the health delivery system by
rehabilitating and upgrading the network of health facilities at the
peripheral and village levels, and by concentrating on the ten priority health
problems identified in the National Health Program.   It would help upgrade
and retrain existing paramedical personnel, and train front line voluntary
health workers of both sexes. The project would develop and implement a
well-structured community health education program to help mobilize support
for PHC at the community level with the active participation of mass
organizations, and it would strengthen the MOPH's management, programming,
monitoring and evaluation capacity at the central and regional levels.
47.      The shortage of female paramedicals constitutes the major obstacle to
the development of maternal and child health and family planning services (see
para. 30). This would be addressed by the project through specific
interventions to: a) increase the number of trained community midwives from
the governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt (see para. 51); and b) develop
popular awareness of population and family planning issues through the health
education component (see para. 50). The 120 additional community midwives to
be trained during the four year project implementation period would directly
improve service delivery in this area and would also help strengthen family
planning as an integral part of the Government's primary health care delivery
system. In the long run however, the solution lies in the construction of the
boarding facilities for female students in the three regional paramedical
schools of the IHMD (see para. 51).



- 16 -
Project Description
48.      The project would consist of; (a) upgrading and repairs of 139 health
units, the construction of 55 health units and the provision of furniture,
equipment, drugs, supplies and vehicles for these facilities; (b) health
education materials; (c) training of medical personnel, and technical and
support staff; and (d) strengthening the MOPH through consultant services and
fellowships for overseas training.
49.      Health Units.  Out of 225 health units in the project area, only 47
are in satisfactory condition. 139 need to be upgraded or repaired and
another 39 units must be reconstructed altogether. To raise health services
to a minimum acceptable level and reach the population coverage mentioned
above, 16 additional rural health units would have to be built in areas of
high population density. Therefore the project would include the upgrading
and repairs of 139 existing HUs and the construction of 55 HUs. The 16
additional HUs would supplement the additional coverage expected from the 32
health units (170 m2 on the average) financed by the United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) and now being built under UNICEF supervision.
Careful design for each type of unit to be financed under the project would
make it possible to limit the impact of extremely high construction costs:
out of 55 HUs to be built under the project, 15 would have an area of 56 m2
and 40 would be 99 m2. The project would include furniture, equipment and
drugs and supplies for the 55 new and all 186 existing HUs, as well as
additional equipment for the 15 existing health centers operating in the three
governorates.
50.      Health Education Materials.  The project would assist the MOPH to
develop a well-structured health education (HE) program to be carried out with
the support of the mass organizations. The Directorate for HE in the MOPH is
preparing a four-year program of activities with special emphasis on measles,
nutrition, infant diarrhea, malaria, personal hygiene, drugs and alchohol,
breast feeding, mother and childcare, family planning and tuberculosis. The
Directorate would also prepare a Field Manual for PHC staff and produce a
Quarterly Bulletin to serve as a teaching document and an active link with
field personnel, and design and produce radio and television programs. The
project would include the production of eight films on basic health themes in
PDRY, as well as the purchase of other films from external sources. The
project would also provide equipment for the production of audio-visual and
printed materials, as well as short-term technical assistance and fellowships
for overseas training.
51.      Training.  The project would support the MOPH's ongoing manpower
development efforts. The additional 120 positions to be generated by this and
the ongoing UNCDF financed project will be filled by improved deployment of
existing staff and by present pre-service training output. The Government is
seeking funds to support the longer term pre-service training needs of the PHC
system through the construction of three regional branches of the IHMD
including boarding facilities (see paras. 36 and 45). With respect to
community midwife training, the Government has agreed that, pending the
construction of these regional branches of the IHMD, the MOPH beginning in



- 17 -
1983 would recruit annually at least 30 community midwife candidates from the
governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt for training, and would assign them
to their districts of origin upon graduation (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.09). This would help reduce the shortage of midwives, now estimated
to be 160. To meet the short-term requirements of the PHC system, the project
would help establish a regional capacity for in-service training, field
supervision, and continuing education through mobile training and supervision
teams. Four regional training and supervision teams (TSTs) would be created
under the project, to provide: technical guidance for PUC; retraining of
existing field staff; training for Health Guides and TBAs; intensive
supervision of newly deployed personnel; and on-going supervision thereafter.
Later in the Project, TSTs would become the principal channel for continuing
education. The TSTs would be part of and directly supported by the regional
Directorates of Health Services. Each team would consist of one medical
assistant, one community midwife, and one assistant health inspector, all
selected from experienced staff with previous supervision responsibilities.
The four TSTs would retrain 580 medical assistants, nurses and community
midwives (190 in Lahej, 150 in Abyan and 240 in Hadramawt) through short-term
courses over the four years 1983-87. They would also train 480 Health Guides
through short-term courses over the four-year project period, thus extending
PHC coverage by about 144,000 persons. The project would provide for a survey
to gather basic information on TBAs in order to design specific educational
objectives and modules for their training. In the third year of the project
the MOPE would begin a program of on-the-job continuing education for all PHC
staff, which would concentrate on operational matters, with special emphasis
on the ten priority health problems.
52.      Strengthening the MOPH.  The project would finance 48 manmonths of
consultant services and 18 manmonths of overseas training fellowships. To
support the Director General of PHC who would be responsible for programming
and coordination, the project would provide for consultant services in PHC
management, family planning and health planning. For the same purpose, the
project would include fellowships for overseas training in public health,
maternal and child care and family planning, and nutrition (9 manmonths). The
project would also provide for the services of a short-term training
specialist to assist the Director General of PHC and the IHMD in evaluating
the on-going training programs, assessing the adequacy of the curricula, and
recommending appropriate measures to improve the implementation of this
component. One fellowship for overseas training (2 manmonths) has also been
earmarked for the same purpose. To assist the General Directorate for
Planning and Statistics in implementing the revised health monitoring system
(see para. 55), the project would provide for consultant services in
statistics and epidemiology, and overseas training (2 manmonths) in the same
field. Overseas training for health educators (3 manmonths) and senior MOPH
staff (2 manmonths) is also included in the project. Four experienced
construction supervisors would be provided to supplement, in remote areas, the
normal supervision of civil works under the project carried out by the
Ministry of Construction. The project would also finance furniture, equipment
and vehicles for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the Directorate for
Health Education and the three Regional Directorates. The Government has
agreed to employ consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA and are carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Use of Consultant's Guidelines (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). The Government has also agreed to appoint
suitably qualified people for the overseas training program using criteria for



- 18 -
selection and award that are acceptable to IDA, after approval of the training
programs and locations by IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
Under their contributions to the proposed project, WHO will provide 20 man
months of technical assistance in the next two years, and UNICEF will provide
equipment, vehicles, drugs and local training of MOPH staff. WHO will also
fill future vacancies with full-time advisors in health planning, health
education, and health statistics and epidemiology.
Project Implementation
53.      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established within the
MOPH.  It would be responsible for the execution of the proposed project.  The
PIU would be headed by the Director General for Planning and Statistics of the
MOPH and consist of a project coordinator, a qualified accountant, two
technical staff and two support personnel. The project coordinator has
already been appointed. The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) by the Government under terms of reference and with an organization
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01). The Government has agreed to
appoint the project coordinator, the accountant, and the two technical staff
for the PIU, all with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, by October 1, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.02(b)). The PIU would be assisted by the MOPH engineer. This
position is presently filled by an internationally recruited expert. The
Government has agreed that, should this position become vacant, the MOPH would
make available to the PIU the services of a qualified architect or engineer
within the MOPH (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). The
Government would forward certified copies of the project accounts as well as
the annual audit report of the Central Board of Audit (CBA) to IDA not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.01(c)). The overall status of project preparation is
good; detailed designs for the buildings to be constructed under the project
have been completed, and furniture and equipment lists were agreed at
negotiations. The various training programs and their content, implementation
procedures and schedules were also discussed and agreed at negotiations.
54.      The Central Council for Primary Health Care would provide overall
guidance for the development of PHC, the integration of health services, the
organization of training activities, and program monitoring and feedback. The
Program Development and Evaluation Unit in the MOPH would be responsible for
detailed programming of all PHC activities while the General Directorate for
PHC would coordinate inputs and supervise service delivery. The Training and
Supervision Unit would program and supervise the training component with the
assistance of the IHMD, and the Directorate for Health Education would
implement the community health education program. The Government has agreed to
appoint an adequate number of qualified staff to the Program Development and
Evaluation Unit, the Training and Supervision Unit, the Directorate for Health
Education and two health education officers in Lahej and Abyan all in the
Ministry of Public Health by October 1, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.04).
55.      The General Directorate for Planning and Statistics would establish a
revised health monitoring system, centralize and analyse statistical reports,
and circulate feedback information. Monitoring would be based on input
indicators, output indicators (coverage and performance) and on outcome



- 19 -
indicators. This would be supplemented by studies and applied research on
primary health care to be financed under the project. The nature, scope and
cost of each would be based on information obtained from the monitoring system
and would be agreed with IDA prior to being carried out. As part of the
project monitoring system, the PIU would conduct a mid-term evaluation of the
project. The Government has agreed to carry out a mid-term evaluation of the
project under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to complete it by
December 31, 1985, and to provide a copy promptly to IDA. It has also agreed
to take any remedial action which the Government and IDA jointly agree is
required (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). The project is
expected to be completed by September 30, 1987.
Project Cost and Financing
56.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes which
are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, but inclusive of
contingencies, is estimated at $10.4 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange cost of $5.2 million, or 50 percent of total project costs.  The cost
estimates are based on April 1983 prices.  Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for furniture,
equipment, vehicles and supplies. Price contingencies on local costs for
civil works, other local costs and foreign costs respectively are compounded
annually at rates of 15, 7.5 and 7.5 percent (1984), 14, 7.5 and 7 percent
(1985), 13, 6 and 6 percent (1986 and 1987). The costs of civil works are
derived from current contracts for similar types of construction in the
project area. Furniture and equipment costs are based on CIF unit prices
adjusted appropriately. The cost of consultants and other internationally
recruited personnel is estimated at $8,400 per manmonth. This rate includes
salaries, social costs, overheads, fees, overseas allowances and international
travel costs and is consistent with the prevailing rates in PDRY. Overseas
training fellowships are based on an average monthly cost of $2000 including
international travel.
57.      The proposed IDA credit of $7.6 million would finance 73 percent of
the total cost of the project. The Government has obtained $0.6 million from
WHO and $0.4 from UNICEF to help finance the project. The Government would
finance the balance ($1.8 million). The Government is continuing to seek
about $7 million of cofinancing to complete the financing of the three
regional paramedical schools and the three medical stores (see para. 45). The
two advances for project preparation totalling $266,400 would be refinanced
under the project. The Government would establish and maintain a 90 day
$225,000 revolving fund to finance advance payments to local contractors,
payments for consultants' services, for overseas and local training, and for
drugs financed by the IDA credit. The opening of the revolving fund on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01). The
financing plan was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations. Incremental
recurrent expenditures generated by project implementation would total $1.9
million. In any year these expenditures would not be more than 2.4 percent of
the MOPH's 1981 recurrent budget ($23.4 million), and 6.4 percent of current
health expenditures in the project area ($8.9 million). On these bases, the
project is affordable for the Government and would not strain its limited
resources; fiscal replicability of project standards to the rest of the
country would be possible at a later stage. However, to ensure proper
maintenance of PHC buildings and equipment in the future, the Government has



- 20 -
agreed to maintain all facilities, equipment and vehicles provided under the
project and to ensure that beginning in 1984 the annual budget of the MOPH
includes a regular and adequate provision to finance the maintenance of
project buildings and equipment (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
Procurement
58.      All buildings to be constructed in the project are small in size and
widely scattered over isolated rural areas. It is therefore unlikely that
such small buildings would be of interest to foreign contractors.
Consequently, contracts for civil works costing $4.7 million would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) following local advertising
and local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. These procedures permit
the grouping of contracts and the participation of foreign contractors.
Upgrading and repairs of existing facilities would be executed by regional
authorities through force account, and expenditures under this category would
not exceed $50,000 in Aden, $0.5 million in Lahej, $0.3 million in Abyan and
$0.8 million in Hadramawt. The construction of isolated new health units
would be carried out by force account when no satisfactory bids have been
received or when LCB has proven unsuccessful in the past. Civil works for new
health units under force account, in each governorate, will not exceed
$200,000 equivalent. Furniture, equipment and vehicles, amounting to $1.3
million, would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit
bulk procurement. About 70 percent of furniture and equipment for the health
units are expected to be procured through UNICEF's Packing and Assembly Center
in Copenhagen (UNIPAC), whose procedures are satisfactory to the Association.
All other contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Small items or groups of items needed quickly or of a
specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, and estimated to cost
less than $100,000 per item and not more than $250,000 in aggregate would be
procured under government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and would
include to the extent possible quotations from at least three suppliers in
eligible countries. In the event of local bids for furniture and equipment
being received under ICB, the local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference in comparison with foreign bids, equal to the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports, or 15 percent of the CIF
price, whichever is lower.
Disbursements
59.      The IDA credit would be disbursed over 5 years and the closing date
would be June 30, 1988. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: i) 70
percent of expenditures for civil works; ii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 70 percent
of local expenditures for locally procured items for furniture, equipment,
materials and vehicles for the PIU, the 55 new health units and for the health
education component; iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants'
services and fellowships; iv) 100 percent of expenditures for drugs for new
health units and all health guides; and v) 100 percent of expenditures for
in-service training of health assistants, training of health guides and for
operating costs of the four TSTs. The disbursement projections are consistent
with the overall PDRY disbursement profile.



- 21 -
Justification, Benefits and Risks
60.      The project's principal benefit would be the improvement of health
conditions for the population in the three governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt, which includes 68 percent of the total population but about 80
percent of the rural population of PDRY. Increased and improved coverage of
primary health care services under the project would benefit about 1.3 million
persons or 83 percent of the estimated 1987 population in the project area.
Among the beneficiaries would be 49,000 infants, 190,000 children and more
than 282,000 women of reproductive age. The development of preventive
activities through immunization, community health education and family
planning, and basic curative treatment for the ten major health problems would
reduce morbidity and mortality rates substantially. Because of present low
health standards, significant gains can be expected. The health education
component of the project would help improve local environmental conditions.
61.      The project would also yield substantial benefits through more
efficient use of MOPH resources, and improved cost-effectiveness of health
services delivery.  This project would be the first major development project
to be implemented by the MOPH and it would help strengthen the Ministry's
management, planning, implementation and evaluation capability. An additional
contribution of the project would be the more productive use of the
considerable technical assistance provided to the sector by bilateral and
multilateral organizations.
62.      There are no unusual technical risks associated with the proposed
project, and it has strong institutional support from Government. But it
faces two managerial and operational risks. First, the MOPH has no experience
in implementing large projects. This is recognized by the MOPH which has
appointed its most experienced senior administrator to head the PIU. He would
be backed by a senior medical assistant with extensive field experience. The
project coordinator is already appointed and good progress is being made in
arranging for the establishment of the PIU and the recruitment of the other
staff required for the project. The project also includes the provision of
consultants in key areas related to project implementation. In addition, both
WHO and UNICEF have agreed to reorient their substantial technical assistance
to provide technical support for the project. Second, the MOPH would have to
rely on the Ministry of Construction for all matters related to civil works,
and there is a risk that it would not be able to supervise on a regular basis
the construction of small buildings scattered in isolated rural areas. The
project thus includes the provision of four site supervisors, under the MOPH,
who would assist the Ministry of Construction in supervision of civil works in
rural areas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of



- 22 -
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) by the
Government under terms of reference and with an organization acceptable to IDA
and the opening of a revolving fund on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA are additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 9, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                          Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
ARE   (HOSAD  Q.KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             33I30                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       92.7                                  MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..           ..     420.0   /1           1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      209.5        231.7      508.5                 713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1209.0        1498.0    1907.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0          32.1       36.9                  47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.1
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                            7.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         3.6          4.5        5.6                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       13.2        16.2       20.1                 420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         45.4       46.3                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4         51.9       51,1                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. Ah'D ABOVE                    2.9         2.6        2.5                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.0         2.1/c      2.4/c                 2.8                      2.4
URBAN                                6.0         3.5        3.8                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.4        48.6       46.1                  41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.8        24.2       19.8                  12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.4        3.3                   2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          100.0         92.0      101.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    81.4         87.6       81.3/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.4         50.5       60.2/d                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.7         15.4       22.9Td                18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       59.4        44.3       30.5                  15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0          40.4       45.0                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            209.5       177.4      145.9                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       24.0/e                59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                 ..          ..       30.07T                83.1                      78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        5.0T7                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                    ,.                     59.3
iURBAN                                ..          ..         ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          13285.7      34261.9    5967.0                 4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..           ..    1328.5                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             1409.1       978.0/f   756.0                  641.7                    477.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      33.3/e                25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RUhAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NURBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       22.0/g
URBAN                                ..           ..       57.67g
RURAL                                 ..          ..         .l -.
1  1980.



- 24                                          Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Jb           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  13.0         57.0      70.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  20.0         91.0       99.0                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                 5.0         23.0      42.0                   72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         10.0      31.0                   34.7                     41.3
MALE                   8.0         16.0       44.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 2.0          4.0      18.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (j  OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.3        1.8/d                10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.2         31.2      24.0                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           20.6         19.5      16.0                   23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         27.1/h    40.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.8          6.8       8.2                   17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          49.6         52.1      53.7                  131.3                    270.5
TV KECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.5/i       14.0      17.7                   44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATIONi                    ..          1.0        6.4                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            2.3       3.2/d                  1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        330.2        392.2     463.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     4.0          4.9       5.7                   10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.0         65.0      45.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0         17.0      15.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.3         26.2       24.3                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  52.0         49.9       46.3                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 2.2          2.5        2.8                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          1.8        2.0                   1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     140.0                  178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      90.0                  403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      87.0                  285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..      20.0                   30.9
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d 1977; /e 1976; If 1968; /g percent of population 1975 data; /h age 10 years
and over, for 1973; /i 1963.
May, 1982



- 25 -
Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOC7AL INDICATO!S                                                       Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the data are drosa  from sources generally judged the onsl authoritative and reliable. it should also he soted chat they oy sat be iater-
natioaelly comparable because of the lack at stand-rdized deflnit-ans end concepts used by different caoe-ies in collecting the dut.  The dare tte. sane-
theless, useful ta describe ardecs of nageitude, indicate treads., od chatactrie -certain mjor differecs bteeo
The refarence groups are (I) the ue co--cry gr-up of the aubjeor couetry and (2) a c..otry group witc  aoueshat higher a..asge io-ru  chan the coutory group
of the sobj)ct country (e-cept fop   "High I-coge   oil Exportars  group vhere "Middle In.oes North Africo and Middle East" to chases bec-uoe of stranger
sociu-nultccal affi-ccels).  Inc he -ference group  aura th. ..erages are population -eighted ar.ch.tur las  for each i              -dicator nod shame osly mhei
jajority of tho cou-r-ies in a group tan data for chat Iiadicaor.  loSiut th  coverago of countrieas aong the iudicators depends us the sa-ilability of data
and is not u"ifoes. cauuion must hr enercised in relating averages of one idiloator to asothet. Theso a-erages are only useful II coepsehug the value of
oae indicator an a time anong the country and reference g-oups.
AREA (thousand sq.kh.)                                                                       Popolatios per Rgspical tad - total, u-bao, and rural - Population (total.,
Total - Total surface ares co.r-sing land area and inland esters; 1979 data.                 urban, aed rral) divided by their respectineo ubet of haspital beds
agrIcultural -  toEionte of aoricul-rrl area an.d cegeoraplly or petaently                   available it poblic and privste geneeal and specialeed hospital and re-
for crops., pastures. morte and kitchen h ardens or to lie falle; 1979 data.               habilitatio. centers-  H..spysalo are        pvidthonge p.raIsnt.ly  saffed
by as leastI oo. phystilsoa. Entahlishronnts proriaig prlachpallyo....u-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita eattnatis at corrent mattes Prices, cal-                 dIal core see not tnoladed.  Rural h-spirals. however, iqclude health
culated by samel conveestoo mehod as Warld tak Atlas (19708-0 hasis); 1960,                  and tedioal centres not permanently s-affed by a physician (bht hy a
1970. sod 19SO dots.                                                                         medical assistant. nurse, sidmife, eto.)  hich offer is-patient acoI'lo-
dattan sod pr.vid. a limited range of medinal facilities.  For statis-
ENERGY CONSIMPTION PER CAPITA - Aaual consueption of coeerciala enegy (coal                   tlual purposes arias hospitals inclode kHOs prin,ipal/gem erl hospitals,
aod lignite, penealeum, naturat gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermlal elec-                sod carol haspisals, local or rural hospinals sod mdoal and mateenity
tricity) to hilogeses at coal equinalent per capita; 1960, 1970, sad 1979                    centees.  Specialieed haspitals are incltded anly under tontl.
data.                                                                                      Adeisuga.. par Hospital Bed - Taoal ou ber of admissians to at Atarbargse
frIb ho-pitals divided by the nus,er of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
4                               Total Populatian, Mid-Year (thousands) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980              HOUSING
data.                                                                                    Anerage Site of  .ousehold (parsons per household) - nocal. erbon, sod tural-
Urban Poyulation Iperoent of total) - Eraio of orban to natal population;                    A household cassists of a graup at inivdiduals who shore lviag quarters
dIfferent defioitfons of arbanareao maY aff_cs cospurahiliep at data                       aad their  ito sals,  A boarder or lodger my or may not be included to
_mang coutries; 1960, 1970. and 1990 data.                                                 the household for statisclal p-rpasos.
Poptlation Projections                                                                     Anverage roster of persons per coomn-carol, urban, sod rotal - aeaent
Population in ross 2000 - Carrent population proj- sonn  are based on 19gO                 her of persons per room is all urbae. sod rural occupied convetioonal
nasal population by age a-d seo and thedr mortalidy and fecrility rars.                  dwellings, respectively.   seviliogs etclude non-permanensrocs-reo aed
Projec_tio  parameters for  alotarity tates comprise of three levelsaslua-              -uoccupied parts.
ing life expectuncy at blrth increasing siu  councr'a pee  capita _acose              Acoess fa Elecrricity (pLeceto of d-eelings) - tastl,  rbaon, led rtral -
level, and feenle life ecperanoy atabilioiog at 77.1 years.  The p-r--                  Conventio-al donllisgs ofch electrioity is living quarters an p-scentage
meters for fertility rate alsa h-ae three levelsessusing decline iv                      of total, urban, and  ortal dvelliogs respectively.
fertility acording no inacom level ead past lausly plonoing performance.
Rach country is th,n  -ssigned 0e of these otto conhinarioos at sortfl.ty            EDUCATION
and fertility treeds for prajertuor purposes.                                          Adjusted Enrolltent Ratios
Scationary poy la  io       .- I   a st.tio.ary popuiltian chere i no  grooth sioce                      -                            Gross  total, male and female
l te bcrlh rato is equal so he deah  orae. oad elso rch  age neccoroce to-                  rollseec of all agoer  the primary leve1l a  percenaogea of respectffv
svinsocoostant.  This is achieved or, after fettilicy rates declint na                     preimry schaol-age populations; normally includes children oged 6-11
the replacement level of unil  -er roproducrion rate, whoa each generation                 years but adjusted for differeor leogths  of pritary edua.tion; for
of vozen   plaluces itself c_actly.  The sateionary population sloe was                    cou_trill with universal edouatioo enrollon1 t nay exceed 100 portent
estimated an the basis of tho pr.jecred characracissirs of the yopulatcou                  slate soon pupils are below or ebose the official school age.
in the year 2000, aed the rate of ds_line of fertility rate tn replace-                  Secondry schol - rotl   ale ad feeo - Coappted as above; secondary
meat lovel.                                                                                education requiresnat least four years of approved primasry inutruction;
Year .totionary population is reached - The year vhea stationary population                  provides generol. v.cational, or roarher training ioateocflare for pupils
sio  vill be reached.                                                                     usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence  courses are ge.neally
Population  De-sity                                                                            e_cluded.
Per sq. kh. - Mid-your populaton per square kilo -erer (100 hectaces) of                 Vocatiooai enoll-ef (PLoerroot of seoandatyJ - focational inftittions
Loral area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dane.                                                    includetechnical, iodustrial, or other prafrt  which operate ildepend-
Per sqg he. agricolnural lard - Canp-ced as sbone for agric-lt-ral lad                    ently  or us deparronos of secondary instirutinns.
a lqy; 1060. 1977 sed 1979 data.                                                       Pupil-taacher ratio - pri-ar, and secondiory-Tatl studests enrolled to
papuLasioo Age hnrucsuce (porcent) - Children (0-1  years), working-age (10-                primary sod sacondary levels dtvided by numbrs  of soar hers in the
64 years), sod reted (65 years and aver) as peccetages of =id-year papa-                   carrespondieg levels.
Itioo; 196D. 190D. and 190O data.                                                       Adult literary rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to rood snd write)
population iroeth hate (percent) - total - Annuol groeth rsoates of  total mid-               ape.Irctage of tonal adult population aged 15 years and over.
Pear pepulution far 1950-60, 1960-10, asd 1970-ga.
Pnpulation Groeth Rate (perceot) - urban - Annual grovth Lates of urban ppop-            CONSUMPTION
iations for 1950-dO, I960-70, and 1970-fl.                                               Passenger Cars (per thousand papalurias) - Passenger cars comprise mtnor
Crude Birth tote (pfr thousand) - Annual live births per thoasand of oid-year                cons seatiog loss thri    eighl p-e-s;  -claden abhlauocet, hearses aed
yopulatian; 1960, 1970, end 1980 drac.                                                     oilirary vehicles.
Crude Deach SRat (per throsand) - Anua-l deaths per tho.s.ad  af eid-year                 aRdia teceivers (per thouod population) - All types of receivors for radit
population; 1960, 1970. and 198O dana.                                                     broadcasts to general public per thoasand of pyoplatlon; eorludetsou-
Grass Rseproductinn gate -    rAvrage nosier of daughters a easer vill bear  n               licensed receivers in cIou-trea and to years when regiosctlaon of radid
her   -Ieaal reprad .ctrvo period if she experiesces present age-specific for-             sets was is effoci; data for _eceet yea   y  sot be co  parable since
rlity rates; usually five-year  -ve-ages ending it  196h, 1970, asd 1980.                  noes countries abrlished licensing.
FPuilyPlanonig  ,-a cceptors.Anual (thousads)- Anual           efaccept-rs                 TYeececne (per thousand poplation) - T  receier  forhroadca-- ta
of birte-cacrtol devices ttder auspicesa ofnional family plaronxg ptograe.                 ge Ieral publac per tho-nuod populatio.; enclades aelicensed TV recairerr
fasily Plnniog - U-se   (percent of -srried woman) - Percentage of sunred                    in ou itrten asd is years  enba registration of TV nets vas ie effort.
woman of child-htaring age (15-44 yours) v o b use hirth-c-utrol  devicosro                Nevspaer Circulacios leer thosusnd  population) - Shoes the averagoeir-
all  arried vomen in some age group.                                                       culotian of "dully general istereisconespaper". defined as sar todical
publiratian deotd petmarily s 0 recording general oew.  It Itoniee
FOOD AND NUTiITION                                                                              ttoe "dily" if itaptea  at leost four times t  eek.
Ideo of Food Prodtion  per Capit (1969-1100) - loden of per capita aonnul                 I          al CAtoedance per Cpita per Year - Baed on the I ueber of
p-odcrtiun af all food  -oonodile-.  F-od-rtio  e-claden teed and feed aed                tihkets sold during the year. including adoissione to drive-ia uteemas
is on calendar Year  asIn.  Conmditio  cover primary goods (fg. sugarcana                  and =bile units.
instead of sugar)   ich are edible and c-ntinonutrients (e.g. coffee end
tea are eecluded).  Aggregare produccdoe of each country as based o.                   LAdOR PORCE
national overage prod-cer price weights; 1961-65, 1970, aud 190O darn.                  Totatl abor Porce (thousands) - conoaisclly active peteons, ialsdin
Per capita isupply a  calories (percent of reI niremanta) - Casputed fros                    roesd faeces and uneepbopyd hlt eocludiag htosewiwes, stodents,  etc.,
energy equivalent tf net faad s-pplies availsble in country per capita                     covering population of all ages.  Definitions it vorinus caoptiea ore
per day.  A-ailable supplies conprine domescic producriae.. Cpor.s  lens                   no  comparable; 1960. 1910 .nd 1980 data.
exporrs, and changes is stoch.  Not nupplies etclude animl feed, seeds,                    Pe=le (percent) - Fe=le labor foIce al percea.ge of tual labir ferce.
quantities ased in food poroeesig., sad losseu it  distribution.  Require-                 Agriculture (percent) - Laboo force it farming, forestry, hIrtoig and
mnats wre ensatinured bY PO bad 00 physilogiIcal needs foe normsl acti-                      fLihiEg as percentage of total labor forte; 160, 1970 and I190 dana.
vity sod health ca eidering e.viroamental toepera. re.   bady weights, age                 Industry (percent) - Ltboo foote in oititg, construction, manfufaturing
and sen distribution of popularioo, sod alloving 10 percent for waste as                     sod elecct-rity, waroc sod gun as pe.eneage of total lae force;
g                      ~~~~~~~household level; 196f-65. 1970 and i9y7 data.                                          1960, 0190 san  1900 data.
Per capits supply of prorein (groan Per don) - Paroein cootent of par capic P-rticipation Sate (perctor) - toalr, male, and female - Participation or
net supply of load per day.  Net supply of food is defifsd as abov . Re-                  activity rate_ are cusputod as rotal, solo, and femle labor foeesa
qlcomenren  for all countries established by USDA pr-nudo for tinom                        perceotagen of stotl, male and feale popolattin of all ages reepec tivly;
allowances of 60 grsa=  of rotal pr-tein par day and 20 grama of snioal sd                 1960. 1970. and 1900 das.-  These   ebased -n ILO's participation  ratee
pulse prorte, of which 10 grsms should be anial prortoi.  These stand-                     reflectiog age-sen eotrutore of the paopltion, and long tie trend.  A
ards ate .o.tr thou those of 715 grams of toal protenl oad 23 gra= of                      foe es-i=ates are fro  oa= teal soI rces.
animal protein on as aveosgo for the vrld, proposed by FAO is the vhird                  Rconnmic Dependency Ratio - SRtin of papulatios vnder 15 wed 65 sod nver
,orld Poad Some7; 1961-65, 1970 Pan  1917 data,                                            to the total labor force.
Per capita proten supply free aneial and p""ul  -Poteio supply of food do-
rived fraom eniols med pulses in gra=s per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.           INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (ages 1-4) sath Sane (pee thaweond) - Annual deaths per ehousad in                   Percst-age of Prirat      - bruise (bheh in cash and kihd) - teceived by richest
age grouy  1-4 years, to children it this age grasp, for mst developig ro..-              5 percent, richest 20 perceot, poorest 20 percent, asd pooroes 40 perceet
tries data derived Ie= life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1980 dana.                              of households.
HEALTH                                                                                     pOVERT _TMGET GROUPS
Life Expectancy at Birth (ryues) - Average number of years of life re=ining                The fall ovig  sti=ites are very approxiptate  easures of povrty levels,
at birth; 190, 1910 and 1900 dora.                                                         and should be interproted with coneiderai!e caution.
Iofmet Mortality Rose (per thousond) - Anav,l deaths of infatno oder ane year              Estimated Absolute Porerty Iroom Level (LSO par capita) - ursban nd rural -
of age per ehaasand line births; 1960, 1910 and 1980 dana.                                 Absolute poverty income Derol is rtisa oe loose b    belov -hich a   inimal
Access to late Water (percent of pocolanlos) - total, urban, and tura: - 8ar                  unuritiawelly adequate diet plus esesetial san-food reeqiremasts is not
her of people (total, arie, oed rearsl) vth reasonalle access in safe                      affordabIe.
water supply (includes treated serface waters or ounreated hobt uncontaotnted            tetiatted Relative Poverty Incsea   Lae1I (Uss pee ospite) - urban led rural -
wtme  samh ss that from pretested boreholes. springs. sad san.iarey wls) as                ur-al relative poverty income level iA one-thied of average per Capira
perceerages of theirr reepeotin  populotona.  In a  aeha       ea pablic                   peesrasoI inters  of the cauntry.  Urban level is derived free the eroal
fo.etaiL  or standpost laocted sot mare than 000 meters from a hoese may bh               lenmi vith udjuatmst far higher cost of living in urban areas.
coasideredas hemin  within teaseseble access of then house.  Ia rural aeeas              Ruti_ared Pepalatiss Below Ansolate Pnverty Incose Ler=l (percest) - urban
ressomable access would imply that the hauosa fe so oehbeot of the household               and rran    - Percent of popalatio  (Curiba  asd earu1) who are tmshsblate
do wet hame st spend a dispropartitsate pert of she day  is fetching the                   poor".
tasily'o water se=eds.
Atceis tn Roeeei Bis-oeml Ceeet of poeslation)  - total, urbAn, and rural -
Bomber of peaple (total, ariae, and cora1) served by esoretn disposal as
pe ceenages of their respectie populations. Racreta dispesal may Lclude
she _oleteou  eat disposal.  wish at sits=at ereattt. af bi   e-emes
and waste-onter by vster-baone syptefs or the use  tf pit privies aed simi-
tar inastalletians.
Popuistios per Phesfatae  - Populatios ditided by esb.e  of prectising phyai-                                                  tE.s-.ie aed Saocil Dateaetvis
rises qe1lifled fot rM  i diol sohbml as mieerstey len-l.                                                              R_oonmic Aeslysis and Proejetiums Departue-t
P-eeisaeius pee  Nsisng Pe. esP    - Populatioe divided by somber of praatisieg                                                            May 1982
aIe and tamale gred"ste tosses. essiseest sarmes, praeteal mermes and
sarsist -ismaliarie.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1981
US$ mln      Z
GNP at market prices               990   - 100
Gross Domestic Investment          310       31
Gross National Savings              39        4
Export of goods and NFS            135       14       Annual Rate of Growth-(Z)
Imports of goods and NFS           800       81             (constcnt prices)
1974/80
GDP at factor cost                 690      100                  6
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries           92       13                  0
Industry                          71       10                  9
Construction                     109       16                 23
Transport                         87       13                 12
Government Services              180       26                  7
GOVERNtENT FINANCE
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)        1974/75   1975 1/   1976         1977      1978    1979       1980      1981
Total receipts 2/                  23.6       16.9       32.1    43.4       56.0    68.0    107.2    124.8
Current expenditures               27.6       25.6      39.2    47.4       61.4    76.2       96.0    137.5
Current deficit                    -4.0       -8.7      -7.1    -4.0       -5.4    -8.2        11.2    -12.7
Development expenditures           19.6        18.9      39.2    57.3       59.7    52.0       74.2    105.1
Overall deficit                   -23.6      -27.6    -46.3   -61.3    -65.1   -60.2    -63.0   -117.8
Borrowing from Banking Svstem   10.4          12.5       15.6    18.5       13.2    27.6      19.0      55.7
External Financing                 13.2        15.1      30.7    42.8       51.9    32.6      44.0      62.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(Y.D. million, end period)                       1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981
Money and quasi-money                           55      67     98    140    168        217      286      321
Bank credit to Government                       24     37      62      72      87      110      127      151
Bank credit to non-Government Sector2/          19     24      31      49      59       61       98      106
Increase in                                                                 -
Consumer prices                                 24      12      4       5       6       10       10        4
1/  The fiscal year was April - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - December 31, 19i75 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis
2/ Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/ Mostly public sector agencies.



-27-
Page 5 of 5
Prov.Est
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)  1974    1975          1976    1977       1978     1979       1980       1981       1982
Exports j/                              8         8       26        24        17       20        38         28         35
Imports 1!                           -190     -178      -268      -365     -386      -411      -650       -763      -797
Trade Deficit                        -182     -170      -242      -341     -369      -391      -612       -735       -762
Non-factor Services, net               22        14       20        10        17       14        14         10         -7
Faector Services, net                  48       18        43        76       111      142       176        199        193
Labor Income                        (41)     (T5)      (3T)      (6)     (T03)    (131)    (14) t4)               (160)
Investment Income                    (7)      (3)       (6)       (7)      (8)      (11)      (30)       (44)      (33)
Current Account Deficit              -112     -138      -179      -255     -241      -235      -421       -526      -576
Transfers                               1       52       125       174       191      205       284        399        401
Official                             (1)     (10)      (46)      (5_5)      36)     T23)      (83)      (144)     (113)
Private 2/                          --       (42)      (79)    (119)    (155)    (182)    (201)         (255)     (288)
Official M and Lt Capital, net         65       31        73        70        94       59        76        171        139
Gross Disbursements                 (6)      (32)      (75)      (7T1)    (95)      (64)      (8)       (175)     (150)
Repayments                           (0)     (-1)      (-2)      (-1)     (-1)      (-5)    (-10)        (-4)     (-11)
Other Capital (incl. E and 0)          38       42         4        29       45        -8        86          2          n.a.
Changes in Official Reserves
(- - increase)                      8        13      -27       -18       -89       -22      -25        -46          n.a.
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)  67          54        81        99       188      210       235        255          n.a.
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                               Average 1980-81
US Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                           12       38
Agricultural Products                             13      41
Other                                              7      21
32     100
EXTERNAL DEBT (December 31, 1981)                    USS Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                    1,404
of which:  Disbursed                               651
Debt Service Payments in 1981                          11
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of
Good-and Services)                                   3.4 percent
1/ Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EM1DD
3/4/83



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1983)
$ Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancellations)
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                     IDA       Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed                                      30.69
615-  YDR      1976       PDRY      Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              0.2
768-  YDR      1978       PDRY      Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2            2.0
829-  YDR      1978       PDRY       Power I                      5.0            1.1
865-  YDR      1978       PDRY       Education II                 4.0            1.6
932-  YDR      1979       PDRY       Fisheries II                10.0            5.7
1038- YDR      1980       PDRY       Aden Water Supply           13.2            6.4
1050- YDR      1980       PDRY      Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0              3.2
1144- YDR      1981       PDRY       Highways III                12.5            9.3
1145- YDR      1981       PDRY      Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.0              7.7
1159- YDR      1981       PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply      3.5            2.7
1222- YDR      1982       PDRY       Education III                6.0            6.0
1268- YDR      1982       PDRY       Power II                     7.5            7.4
1274- YDR      1982       PDRY      Fisheries III                 6.0            6.0
1295- YDR      1982       PDRY      Roads Flood Reconstruction  7.0              7.0
Total                                 134.59 a/ b/   66.3
of which has been repaid                 .07
Total now held by IDA                 134.52 a/
Total undisbursed                                     66.3
a/    Excluding exchange adjustments.
b/    An IDA credit of SDR 8.3 million ($9 million) for a Second Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Development Project (1346-YDR) was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 12 and signed on April 28, 1983.  It is not yet effective.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 8 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(as of March 31, 1983)
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date; December 31, 1982
The project is designed to increase agricultural production on about
8,100 ha of irrigated land in the Wadi Hadramawt through the adoption of
improved cultural practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and
supplies, construction of feeder roads and extension services. It also
includes provision for a date packing plant and a rural water supply
component, and funds for a hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for
increased groundwater use. The project has been essentially completed with
the exception of 10 km of feeder roads. The date processing plant is
operating well below capacity and IDA and the Government have agreed on a plan
of action to improve the situation. The Project Completion Report is under
preparation. The credit was closed December 31, 1982 and the final withdrawal
applications are being processed.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  US$5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to increase agricultural production on about
8,600 ha of cooperatives and state farm land through an increased use of
inputs, improved practices and the construction of an improved groundwater
irrigation network. Inputs and farm machinery are to be provided through
credit. A water management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 8 pages
subsidy policy study have been completed. The Arab Fund, which cofinances
this project, approved its loan of $6.1 million in February 1980. The
progress in irrigation improvement works being financed by the Arab Fund is
behind schedule. Procurement under the IDA credit is expected to be completed
before June 1984. The rural roads component was subject to a substantial cost
overrun and agreement was reached to apply funds allocated for this component
to flood protection works in the wadi to meet the need for rehabilitation of
works damaged during major floods in March 1982. Progress is satisfactory.
The Closing Date was extended by one year in order to ensure complementarity
with the project components being financed by the Arab Fund.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project.  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
the Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution network. Institu-
tion building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study. Although the power station was commissioned in
March 1982 only one out of the four generating units can be operated as the
antici ,ated agricultural load has not materialized. A work program for the
installation of 105 electric pumps in 1983 has been agreed between PCEP and
the Ministry of Agriculture. The power station, in addition, is using costly
diesel oil instead of cheaper fuel oil pending completion of fuel oil tank
storage facilities at Al Khalf port near the town of Al Mukalla. A new PCEP
branch in the project area was created in November 1982; however, there are
still problems in organizing a proper management information system in the
branch.
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project;  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunners of VTCs to
be constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled
and semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an
industrial, an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 8 pages
procurement of furniture and equipment. Fellowships, financed from bilateral
funds have been completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in Al Mukalla
is now completed and in its first year of operation. The construction of the
agricultural school at Saber is ahead of schedule. Construction at the Al Kod
industrial school is progressing on schedule. All furniture has been procured
and delivered. All equipment has been ordered and 80% has been delivered.
The.remaining equipment will be obtained shortly. Comments on the revised
curricula distributed to the Ministries of Agriculture, Industry and Labour by
the Ministry of Education are still awaited.
CR. No. 932-YDR        Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY. It consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist with cold store operations and export
marketing; and a national study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a
possible future IDA-financed project. The project was delayed two years
because of the difficulty in finding cofinanciers. This has resulted in a
cost overrun of about $11.5 million, which is being financed by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development. Construction of the port and related
shore facilities began in December, 1981 and is proceeding according to
schedule.
CR. No. 1038-YDR       Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date; March 27, 1981; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and
procurement under the project is now completed. IDA has agreed to a
reallocation of credit proceeds to allow financing of 100% of expenditures for
combined civil works and equipment supplies.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 8 pages
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and the seismic operation is
progressing according to plan. The Closing Date was extended for one year and
the project description amended to permit the inclusion of the onshore Balhaf
area in the seismic survey program.
CR. No. 1144-YDR      Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for the construction of a two-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expected to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
through (i) consultants' services to the Ministry of Construction (MOC) for
improvement of project preparation capabilities, management, and operations of
the MOC's construction units, including the independent construction unit
(ICU) established under the project and (ii) training of MOC and ICU staff.
The team of management consultants is in place, consultants have been
appointed to provide technical and construction supervision assistance to the
Ministry of Construction, procurement of equipment is complete and most items
have been delivered. Overall project startup is 3 to 4 months behind schedule
due to delays in delivery of equipment and to logistical and other
difficulties caused by the March 1982 floods. All project components except
the technical assistance to the Ministry of Construction are under
implementation and about 50 km of earthworks are complete.
CR. No. 1145-YDR      Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project: $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the Beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 8 pages
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
and Wadi Ain. It would establish a program of hydrometeorological
observations in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and
ensuring their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access
between agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing
feeder roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing
production of fruits, vegetables and meat. Project implementation has fallen
about 6 months behind schedule, partly because of damage caused by the March
1982 floods and partly because of difficulties in recruiting all the
expatriate staff needed. However, most key staff are on post, and procurement
and project implementation are now underway.
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date;
December 23, 1981; Closing Date; December 31, 1985
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water production facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla. The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program to improve health practices and sanitary conditions
in Al Mukalla. It also includes hydrogeological studies needed for the design
of the water production facilities, an urban growth study to forecast the pace
of urbanization in the Al Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic
urban services in this area, and consultants' services. The project would
provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the population of Al
Mukalla. Project execution has continued to progress rapidly during the last
six months. The appointment of engineering consultants for construction
supervision has been deferred until an evaluation of the team's work is made.
PWC has signed a contract with an engineering firm for the carrying out of
hydrogeological studies at Wadi Buwaysh and Wadi Khirba.
CR. No. 1222-YDR      Third Education Project;  $6.0 million Credit of May 25,
1982; Effectiveness Date; October 22, 1982; Closing
Date; June 30, 1987
The project will (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by
providing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled workers and
technicians and by improving the methods and data base available to manpower
planners; (b) upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified
teachers and increase the output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the
quality of school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units
in two regional education directorates and by determining urgent school
furniture and equipment needs. The project will also help to strengthen both
male and female training and primary education in remote areas. Specifically,
the credit is financing construction, equipment and furniture for (i) a
commercial technical institute at Aden (750 places); (ii) an agricultural
technical institute at Saber (450 places); (iii) an in-service teacher



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 8 pages
upgrading center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary teacher
training institute at Seiyun (590 places). Two fully-equipped mobile building
maintenance units and technical assistance for two studies are also being
financed by the credit. Technical assistance relating to the above project
items is being financed by the Government through bilateral sources under
ongoing programs. Due to the financing gap, project implementation is
proceeding in two phases. The Government has agreed to meet the full costs of
the project if cofinancing is not obtained. Final bid design and bid
documents for all project installations have been approved. Bid opening for
phase one will be about 2 months behind schedule. Disbursements which are 3
months behind schedule are expected to improve in 1983 as construction
commences. Phase two bidding is scheduled for late 1983.
CR. No.  1268-YDR    Second Power Project: $7.5 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date: January 11, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project will improve electric power supply to five small towns
and thirteen villages east of Al Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and
the capital of the Hadramawt Governorate.  The project area has a population
of about 150,000. The project consists of the supply, construction and
erection of a 6.6 MW (3 x 2.2 MW) central diesel power station at As Shihr
using residual fuel oil, 84 km of 33 kV and 11 km of 11 kV transmission lines
and about 51 km of 11 kV and 48 km of low voltage distribution lines and
subs_zations, meters and service connections for about 7,300 new customers.  It
also includes equipment to transport material and for the erection of
transmission and distribution lines as well as consultants' services and
overseas training for PCEP staff. The project will provide improved and
expanded electric power supply and help meet some of the demand for electric
power that is at present suppressed in the project area. The central
generating station will replace a large number of small and fuel inefficient
generating sets and provide electric power supply to an additional 7300
customers who are at present using costly kerosene for lighting. Existing
diesel-driven pumpsets will be electrified. The project supports the
Government's policy of bringing economic development and investment
opportunities to rural areas as well as providing them with social amenities.
Project implementation is behind schedule because of delays in finalizing the
bid specifications and general conditions. PCEP's tariff increase proposal is
being reviewed by the Committee on Price and Income before its submission to
the Council of Ministers and the Supreme People's Council.
CR. No. 1274-YDR      Third Fisheries Project:  $6.0 million Credit of August
11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
The project is designed to address two of the sector's most critical
constraints, the lack of adequately trained manpower at all levels and the
lack of facilities for the exploitation of the substantial coastal fish
resources by the traditional coastal fisheries sub-sector. The project



- 35 -
Annex II
Page 8 of 8 pages
consists of (i) the establishment of a Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(FMDC), a self-contained training facility to meet the fisheries sector's
trained manpower needs; (ii) financing of teaching equipment for the training
of refrigeration technicians; and (iii) a Fisheries Village Development
component aimed at upgrading four existing fisheries cooperatives in five
villages by providing integrated fish landing, handling, storage, marketing,
transport and repair facilities. The project also provides technical
assistance. The principal beneficiaries are: fishermen in the five villages,
whose incomes will rise by 80-105 percent as a result of project investments,
employees of the Ministry of Fish Wealth and Unity School graduates who will
be trained at the FMDC, and the 150,000 people in the project and surrounding
area who will benefit from an improved and stable supply of fresh fish.
Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1295-YDR      Roads Flood Reconstruction Project: $7.0 million credit
of October 27, 1982; Effectiveness Date: March 22,
1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project helps to restore normal traffic conditions on roads in
Abyan and Aden Governorates, following severe damage caused by floods in March
1982. It consists of; (i) the strengthening of management, installations and
equipment of an existing Road Reconstruction and Maintenance unit (RRMU); (ii)
reconstruction of (a) numerous damaged road sections totalling about 40 km in
Abyan Governorate and (b) two sections totalling about 2.3 km in Aden
Governorate; (iii) technical assistance to strengthen the Ministry of
Construction's project supervision and monitoring capabilities; and (iv) a
transport sector study. RRMU, with the assistance of engineering management
consultants (appointed in October 1982), has started mobilization and is
preparing a detailed reconstruction program which takes into account
additional damages which this year's spring floods caused at the project
locations. Over half of RRMU's new installation and equipment is under
procurement. Selection of experts and consultants for project items (iii) and
(iv) is in progress. Overall, project implementation is 4 months behind
schedule.
.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key events
(a)      Time taken by country to
prepare project                          2 years 2 months (August, 1980
to October 1982).
(b)      Agency responsible for
Preparation:                             Government and Consultants
(c)      First Bank mission to consider
Project:                                 August 1990
(d)      Appraisal Mission:                        October 1982
(e)      Negotiations completed                    April 1983
(f)      Credit effectiveness                      By September 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III. Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.       Conditions of Effectiveness
i)   establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) by the
Government under terms of reference and with an organization
acceptable to IDA (para. 53); and                                                      4
ii) the opening of a revolving fund on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para. 57).
2. Other Conditions. The Borrower has agreed to;
i)   beginning in 1983 recruit annually at least 30 community midwife
candidates from Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt governorates for training
and to assign them to their districts of origin upon graduation (para.
51);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
ii)        appoint the project coordinator, the accountant, and the two
technical staff for the PIU by October 1, 1983, and make
available to the PIU the services of a qualified architect or
engineer within the Ministry of Public Health (para. 53);
iii)       submit the audited project accounts and the annual audit report
to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 53);
iv)        appoint an adequate number of qualified staff to the Program
Development and Evaluation Unit, the Training and Supervision
Unit, the Directorate for Health Education, and two health
education officers in Lahej and Abyan all in the Ministry of
Public Health by October 1, 1983 (para. 54);
v)         carry out a mid-term evaluation of the project under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, complete it by December 31,
1985, and take any remedial action which the Government and IDA
jointly agree is required (para. 55); and
vi)        ensure that beginning in 1984 the annual budget of the Ministry
of Public Health includes a regular and adequate provision to
finance the maintenance of project buildings and equipment
(para. 57).



a
I



__________________________                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 16892
44°0                                                44'30'                                                45-00'             Rt yoj*             -              -   FEBRUARY 19~83
PEOPLE'S DEMAOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                        4                                                    UEBR1
HEALTH  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                               To/bb            O/BA (TZ>DN                            _   NALEAH A>
r              ~~~~~Al-ORAt/& ALA                             TAArN
LAHEJ                                                                                       R                    *A5gA  /
«   !A L HL                 A  u          ALSYL
HEALTH FA(IAIIES  P-iectl                                                        MDHIA              I Ha               AlT             L At R
AL    Hecir-   Units to be upgroded                                             A-FAG A                      MARAT 4       ADD/Af fB4A                       ,
H. Helh IJnt IG be -epl ...d                                                  -r  *          Dkoi a SUKC Al      0  5ARA A.,            MAA fN 
A            - HeUn to   JMrs  t be neploon-d                                  )U a ,AA                                                       A A Z  ALI
-d., H-Ith P-I-t                               A 1.                                         I~~~~~~~APCA    .,~ 
//dAt rnon  De/  Unipt   to bier construe rod                        QA                  AL GA/     Uf/ Ar*g                             KH/b                                 s a
H   M C H   t .   b ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      I       - ~  -                        '       AA R/ A T AA
A     PolH  Jeptls /un HCetrstob construct   edn                  S                     AZA//A/GQ4             /~         ~ *Dlla ATu N         U  -
d,c  Ut/CUP F-n-sig                                                          AAM 
EXISTiNG HEALTH PACIT.ET                                              -os                        AO        HALMIN FACIITIE                 4 1
EJ    uuootnoto/eHoup.,  -od. en -esr -ro         Q                         TORRASA/1                                                  KH4R I  1/RA*,
O     Pospitnis                                                                   ALwns  IIU Kr0resh   4   AL\UBAI  r               Y A H AR
Q^    HotprnioderBoned ttoo(-                                                                      Al A Thumai r
H..ItI,gmeti)                                    A C-O-        AAI OA$HIRG         ASAA4
23!                            * cr   Heolte Con/ott                                             'US jAt N/KZA                                                  - r O R   A 1. BA H A   '  'AD+eItS                             1300
o     HenIh Cent-sodeccot-to                                       -                A       ymHAILEIN                         PV,H A&Z%
EXISTING HEALTH )NITS                                                                                      4A/ M A/ _ vA     B   -r
A y, _e I                                                    'A                                              ISA
A     Type IT                                           /n TPRES/I /H                                               fl     F    A)A/5N
A.    Ty ef i                                                    f_ uS                                                              A,1
o     Sneered Ton                                                      4     aresh                        UAIRAH       A     MOLAH
t  Ajrp,tr                                                                    u,GOAIAMADR?AMA
yA      JARA                                                                           /104eN
4,1/OF/h                   *2              4AIFASM~~~~~~~AAiGH2  Al  AHAI  AL5HAUTA 4 
1H ~~~~~~~~~~K/JRAAIN/UBA4 4A DI KH/AIR
N      Mrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kA AHF
-                                                                         SARA! A/F/COCA~~~~~~~~~AR~A   o
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~A  IUA132'0
0t                                                                                                               
A L   MA DA RI BAan530
Ant   N obtych                                                                                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*                              /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZ S/u/A tA
ii                           >-u5L~~~~~~~~~~~~ite AdenA
~~I1/5U1/  u             0        /0       20        30        40        50                           YEMEN              4 z 7 7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.PY- E
K//LOMETERS                                               RP
-12-30,  ~        ~           t                  I -       A l/    0t/nr n/ /nu, n5 enhs /tnOrUBO/0et//e/o                                                   12'3p'        /~' 4I8OU T/u.IU IAA H0
54r5/)1                                              4400 -E                                                              ETH-IOPIA\I  SM A LIA



I



18R5) 16893
45'30'                                            46.O0-   .                                          46-30'                                               47500'                 FEBRUARY 1983
1-*---.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  /                   |
HEALTH  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (/                                                                                                      5  H  A  B  W  A  H                                                 70A--
ABYAN                                                             0 GA/5 HAN
/   DORA           /
0        10       20       30        40       50                 /              048/ AAH                                                                                   Al  K_ cber
KILOMETERS                                  !                              <                                 ;                                         Al Khobe  &
AZ SAI. !                                 A/PA/HABALAL  A/K/AAUR A
;A T A                                                                                              LA ABAHAKA 4        AIKHA/FAASULEAEL
hAM KH/A/AL                                                                                Al Mh       /KhA'LL/
/                                               SHORCAN 'i)i 'i4A                                                                                                                                               / 4°00'
I4'00          N..~~~~~~~~~-HRZ  f'AA
ARIAk / A                                                                                                      AA A  H  F F D
J N                                   'tM¶1R4                FM KLAY LA     L      A      H                      AROWS4                i
51£  '//                                   EM~~~~~~~~~I A F/C      EM DO        EM!E K/LAp
A                                    Al MA.A/f/A                        A    / .                                                             AL A/NA.A
/     SABDAH                                           AL A/N            M KLAKRIA
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A5SAC/A Al BA BDA4                                                                                                                  'I
..        !                               -
j                                                    5        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tM SA WAD                                                        
I i ti{ i                                                   rM  S/RRAH^/t^w_=_ . s. 
S5ARAR k                                                                                                                                                  WD  iLLE
z\                       HUM/MAH/  -                                  7                                                            '- !/-:    Ahwar0                                         ,
/13'30\\                                                                                                                                                   HA IA0
EM -5A WA D#  t/" 
S  \  -  -    vHArAT                         |                                     Al KHABFR                                         Al Y )A/          /I7/`                                      e
Cu/f 2                                                                                                                                                                               of   Ad-GAUs H  4---0 
BQ A,O !   TMIH                                                                                                                                            _        _ SA UD I   A RAB8I A
A/ N )     AL5                          *                                       HEALTH FACULITRi  ISStI ESXISTING HBALTHi UNITS
oAI Hosn                                                         4      HeoIti Uo,ts to be Lpgtoded                    A      lype                                                                '        OMAN
AR/                C 9 4                               -                          Health Units to be replacd                      A     TYBeGfi                                                       "
Je W/  A/                                                                 Henth Unt / MCH Cnnerl to be c-nstrord                  npf                                                      ,/           AHR
~XISTtNgHEALTH PCILITI0                   Selected4 Towns                         YEMEN              OIDL  ELP ?iKI
/AL/-/AEOOR                                                       N                     EXSTN        HEATH EAl-IE-                             Airports                                 ARAB    7        LCAo$~
-  -  -                        Gunernurute ~~~~~~~~Hcspitul                   -       olI  gods                 -      0       REF               AR~W   1
U     H- pit.1s                                    -- -Ll -    rn                                                                            -
Al K  r                                    He Ith Center                                           diryt Bun,daries 
GunrBteEpped-ies                       £BA,
-.  Ine-otionel Bo-ndr,~es                                          LA
r'r 0<OO.u~0o~.Y/L.cn.ourT~f     Ine-nt-osl loedefrlnd,"                         de >,                            77
0/~~n.~,,,II0~Y c-c' <occ,,  .uoeO.Y1c0nronooo            -50K/DjGo'
/50                           oupupruieate nIgen46l 3IAOTI                       SOMALIE



A4



IBRD 16894
47I30'             IYA ER ALL/A(A'R                  48MG4%                                               AF'                                40'~30                                                                                        FEFSUARY 1083
AAL-A ER    /iAGFRASSA/A  4FOGiMAA                                                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
'A                           A         ~~~~~~~~~~*ALCA'LF
4  ''    OUDVAIIlA  v5ANA HEALTH  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
kl'~~~~  A    F I                                                            I       Ta,,m ARNTL                                   LAAA
600  y~~~~FtK                                I  o~~~~~,~~CNL/Ot~~GA'Ir ILN R   TA R IM                              CT A/HADRAMAWT
6\A'A B                          FY h    o             SWA / RI             S   0    A    M   4  ALI WA    1
-I  0 R    A t                              SM '  * 1    * "           LA                                                                                          HEALTH FAILIT ES        t
A  I D I     v- 4/M   GA4RATA 4AT F `'A    o  /                                                                                                          Health Unto b. Lpgrod
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R F\, 1(Itut.11 - H)  l[AA WADI \t4Xs                                   ^          *\E SIN    E  T   NIT
, OA B AAN   E7-  r M AN ,,V A                 4                                                                                                         AA L..A  L  Y  UlP        p N
. H E0A L/AN   \          WADLI LLEAL                                                                                                                    -d oon  UNCDF fneAL- -g
A L      A 4                                                                                                                                                      F OIS T   toA E X IS T IN G   H E A L T H   F A C IL IT IE S
W FTi        A,K/ AR    >7 ,   AL A                               '';;\  '    A                >,"H'                                                                    0       e        te,     UN I      CeT
A  Type I
14-30'~~                                ~       ~~ A    H IAN yA 1-1  HOSSAIDA  WAWA DI       4wli0i:                                                           0i ;      i8:       UgSAL 
CAH  I B  W    A R                         N N AA  4                                                                       .AA DAM                                          Type m
47410LAN                       4aO '0/  NAN/COA           ;AL/AC   A/         Y             AL/T /    A,LnN'        *      0         F        3 H                              5 - 0 ETRH            IOPIA  t oo da e                  Mo   Foods  IA 
5A_4 _A  A__
AA.0    IA 114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        AIP  
1A11A ,I                H1I   RUOAAT
'v  I URNA                                                                                                                   -J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IALMLA N'AI
IKhu-,aibAPSI--I-A-
A    L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    D D(-IEH
,,~~~Y A    A                                                                                                          S H E H F RAN/TNRAIARAN                                                          EC.R
GHA)l~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                                                              NOAAn ARAABI
IARA~~~~~~~REOFE3"                                                           RF5OBA
A S S A F) A R A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~lAAe                                              '   ra Re
14/30'                             48'4                            *493THSAAoEAELAR                                                                                                                                     SOALI



it



______________________                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   15175R1
T      AKE                                                        PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC O   YEMEN                                                            5AJNlR
PR             POJCTEBYSETO
SUDAN                                               EA-ASITE
A itY59          $f\A                                                 Agr cjAtu
JETHICPIAA , ~
Ut FwrStoloes
A                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''
FISCAL 
PROJECT.                          YEAR APPROVEO 
HIGnHW  AS               I               I'l                                                                                                        T
FIUIIFRERF C                            1973                                                                                                         Aeamed
A      EDUJCATION1                               )157                                                                                                   //
AII8ALCAYC3U                            197.5A                                                                       
ADER PORT REHABII ITATION               1976                                                                          H A
WVASh HAARAMAWT AUUICULTUUA             15 76.n -                                                                                   A    AA$ AAW
EU 5     WADI TURAN AGRICULTURE                  19875''~-
WVASh HACRAMAWVT POWVER                 1978                                                                 i,     l    LAA,AA                                                                             -
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING A             1978                                                     o<jji-                                                                                                    ALOtADA?
16'                     TEC= ICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                   tm                    A-A                                                                                     16%
) E  OCNTI I U1979
<         FISRIERIESIT179NsRw
PETR(IS EUM OEYLLOPMENIT                1980                                                                                                             Z  A.
III   1~~      ASSISTANCEL
-7p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A?
ADEN WATER SUPPLY                       19888H
>oyhut -AC
WADI REIHAN ASRICULTARE                 1981                                              a                                               i  
MUITALLA WATER SUPPLY                   1981           RAt   A5 b                                           A'           A  A         A 1Af8
K  EDUCATION Ii0                           1982                                        AA                                         -                                                                         USIt~FAUE
P                                                       FISHERIFOSM                             1082   Aedv              ? vR           AaiAieA5                                                                                                                 Gav-rea-te Capitals
PRAPEST                      ~~~~~         ~~~~~1982  W Ep          .1    R  t                                                Ar RipenCapiol1
At                                            A                              &                                                                   Ports                              -4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  
-~~~    AAA  Al   /   ~~~~~~~~~  4/  --  >~~~~~~~~ ahab                                                                                          2 ~~~~~Rivers end Wadis
AA                                                                                                   200                              Primary RoRds
E,7~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                     looo                     5~~~~~~~~~RtAt  ecnoOr-y  RoadsII
--   Governorote Roundories
LAr                                                                                                                                           0                       1OU                      200
K-1       *7 At              N.IA                           .A~A                                                                                                                        K EDM'ETURO
3                            (u'U       /       C2         I    > /\FA D                                                                                AiA  AAAAAfAAA'AA
I,A                                                                                                                                                                                    ,AvAA AIAA.AA AA  AIEAAAAA   A eAA.....
V                        46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      50,~        ~     ~ ~       ~aAA-AA,AAAAAA~AiAA,AAAAAAA.AAAAAAAA



