Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4324-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Dinars (YD)
US$1.00 = YD 0.345
YD1.000 = US$2.90
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
CBA             Central Board of Auditing
CM              Community Midwife
CMS             Central Medical Store
EPI             Expanded Program of Immunization
HC              Health Center
HE              Health Education/Educator
HG              Health Guide
HU (1)(2)(3)   Health Unit  type 1, 2, or 3
lEC             Information, Education, and Communication
IXMD            Institute of Health Manpower Development
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
MCH/FP          Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
MOPH            Ministry of Public Health
NDC             National Drug Company
PDE             Program Development and Evaluation Unit
PHC             Primary Health Care
TBA             Traditional Birth Attendant
TST             Training and Supervision Team
TSU             Training and Supervision Unit
UNCDF           United Nations Capital Development Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DEFINITIONS                                                i
I.    BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
- Demographic Characteristics  . . . . . . . . . . .       1
- Physical Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
II.  THE HEALTH SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
A.  Health Status  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
B.  Health Policy and Programming  . . . . . . . . .       6
C.  Organization of the Ministry of Public Health  .       7
D.  Sectorial Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
- Infrastructure ...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
- Health Manpower .                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
- Pharmaceutical Supplies  . . . . . . . . . . .    13
- Community Health Education .  . . . . . . . .       14
- Health Expenditure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
- Project Preparation. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
III. THE PROJECT .16
A.  Project Concept and Objectives . . . . . . . . .      16
B.  Project Composition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
- Development of Basic Health Services . . . . .      19
- Manpower Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
- Community Health Education . . . . . . . . . .    25
- Strengthening the MOPH . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
A.  Project Costs  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  28
B.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      30
C.  Procurement  ...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
D.  Disbursement ...  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
E. Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . .    33
A.  Project Organization and Implementation  . . . .    33
B.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . .      35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen in October/November 1982. The mission
consisted of Messrs. Louis G. Vassiliou (Mission Leader), Jean Pillet and Mrs.
Patricia Kleysteuber, World Bank Staff, and Messrs. Eid K. nib and Alexander
Shaw, World Bank Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . .          36
A.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         36
B.   Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  37
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .          38
ANNEXES
1. Epidemiological Background
2. PHC Delivery Scheme
3. Organization of the PHC Delivery Network
4. Detailed Cost Tables
5. Schedule of Implementation
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
8. Cost Estimates for the Three Regional Medical Stores and the
Three Paramedical Schools
SUPPORTING TABLES
1. Country and Project Area Population Distribution -
1982
2.  Ten Leading Causes of Hospital Morbidity -- 1976
3.  Ten Leading Causes of Hospital Mortality -- 1976
4. Facilities of the Ministry of Health
5. Health Manpower Resources -- 1982
6. Training Capacity of IHMD
7. Budget and Actual National Health Expenditures --
1977-81
8. Analysis of 1981 National Recurrent Health Budget
9. National Development Expenditure - 1976-1982
10. Foreign Assistance for the Health Sector
11. Summary of Pharmaceutical Supplies by Facility
CHARTS
1. Organizational Structure of MOPH
2. Proposed Organizational Structure of MOPH
3. Proposed Organizational Structure for PHC
MAPS
1. IBRD 16892
2. IBRD 16893
3. IBRD 16894



DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate             :  The percentage of persons aged 15 and over who
can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate               : The number of deaths due to a disease per the
number of people who have contracted the
disease, usually expressed as a percentage.
Child Mortality Rate            : Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1000
children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate                :  Number of live births per year per 1000
people.
Crude Death Rate                : Number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
Degrees of Malnutrition         : A common method of assessing child nutritional
state, based on deficit in weight-for-age, the
Gomez classification scale disaggregates mal-
nutrition into three degrees in comparison to
a reference standard, namely:
first (mild)        - 75-90/o of expected weight
for age (or of standard)
second (moderate)  - 65-7S% of expected
third (severe)      - under 60T of expected and
all children with edema
present.
Incidence Rate                  :  The number of persons contracting disease as
a proportion of the population, at risk, per
unit of time usually expressed per 1000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate           : Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per 1000
live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth        :  Indicates the number of years a newborn child
would live if subject to the mortality risks
prevailing for the cross-section of population
at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)          :  Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 g.  LBW
is generally further disaggregated into those
attributable to pre-term (less than 37 weeks
gestation) and those full-term but small-for-
dates (38 weeks or more of gestation).
Maternal Mortality Rate         :  Number of maternal deaths per 1000 births in
a given year attributable to pregnancy, child-
birth or puerperal complications.
Morbidity                           The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.



- ii -
Mortality                         : Deaths as a component of population change.
Neonatal Mortality Rate           : The number of deaths of infants under 28 days
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births
in that year.
Perinatal Mortality Rate            The number of fetal deaths after 28 weeks of
pregnancy and of infant deaths under 7 days
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births.
Prevalence Rate                     (a) Point prevalence is a census type measure
of the frequency of a specific disease or
characteristic (e.g., malnutrition) in a
given population at a designated point in
time, that is the proportion of the popula-
tion which exhibits the disease or condition,
usually expressed as a percentage or per
1,000 population.
(b) Period prevalence is the total number of
cases of a disease known to have existed over
the specified period, that is the sum of
point prevalence and incidence (the number
of cases existent at the beginning plus the
number of new cases, respectively, over the
given time frame).
Total Fertility Rate                The average number of children a woman will
have if she experiences a given set of
age-specific fertility rates throughout her
lifetime. Serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.



I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Situated  in the southwestern part of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) covers an area of about 333,000
km2. Most of the country is mountainous and rugged with less than 1% of arable
land and 28% suitable for grazing. The estimated mid-1982 population of 2 mil-
lion is concentrated in parts of the coastal plain--a narrow strip about 12 to
25 km wide and nearly 1,400 km long--and the plateaus and highlands of the
interior. Rainfall is scant and irregular, averaging 50 mm per year in the
coastal zone and about 500 mm per year in the highlands. Although its per
capita GNP was US$420 in 1980, PDRY is classified as a least developed country
by the United Nations. About 35% of its gross national product is generated by
remittances and private transfers from some 200,000 nationals employed in
neighboring oil-producing countries; in 1981, workers' remittances were
estimated at US$415 million, i.e. 15 times as much as total exports. The
country is poorly endowed in natural resources and before independence in 1967,
most development activities were concentrated in Aden, with little impact on
the hinterland.
1.02      Since independence in 1967, PDRY has followed a socialist approach to
development. Despite the emphasis on central planning and control, the six
governorates exercise considerable autonomy, a reflection of regional differ-
ences and past feudal structures. The main objectives of the Government's
development strategy are to: satisfy the basic needs of the population;
develop the productive capacity of the economy; expand the infrastructure;
raise education standards; and increase exports of domestic products.
Impressive results have been achieved: GDP at constant prices grew on average
by 6% p.a. during 1974-80 (compared with 2% p.a. during the 1970-1973 period);
with the rapid growth of workers' remittances, GNP rose even faster (12% during
1974-80). Moreover, substantial progress has been made in achieving a more
balanced income distribution and in developing social services.
1.03      Despite this progress, rural incomes lag behind urban ones, and alle-
viation of rural poverty is hampered by low productivity in agriculture and
fisheries, partly owing to inadequate incentives. Poor health conditions also
constitute a constraint to development. Energy imports are an increasing
burden on the balance of payments. Moreover, there are only limited prospects
for investment in the private sector, which has nevertheless demonstrated a
relatively high level of efficiency and capacity to operate profitably under
adverse conditions. Finally, emigration has created a critical shortage of
labor, exacerbated by overstaffing in public offices and state enterprises and
by rising economic activity. The paradox is that large civil works projects
now have to rely on imported labour which, coupled with the virtual absence of
locally produced materials, results in extraordinarily high construction costs.
Demographic Characteristics
1.04      The first census in 1973 showed a total population of 1.6 million, of
which about one-third lived in urban areas, 57% in rural areas, and 10% were
nomadic. PDRY is divided into six Governorates. Aden, the first Governorate,
contains the only large city, with about 20% of the country's population. The



- 2 -
most populated governorate, however, is the Fifth Governorate of Hadramawt with
about 31% of the total population, including the only other major city,
Mukalla. It is followed by the Third (Abyan) and Second (Lahej) Governorates
with respectively 20% and 17% of the population. On the basis of an estimated
annual growth rate of 2.6%, total population in mid-1982 was about 2 million,
of which 1.4 million lived in the three Governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt (see Table 1). PDRY's average population density is about 6 persons
per km2, ranging from 56 in the First Governorate to 1 in the Sixth; the
density per km2 of arable land, however, is as high as 1,000.
1.05      Women's status and their participation into the labor force in PDRY
is in striking contrast to the situation prevailing in other countries of the
region. A Family Law adopted in 1974, explicitly designed to emancipate women,
introduced sweeping reforms in the traditional Muslim society and gained
genuine popular acceptance and support, in spite of some criticisms from
conservative circles. The Family Law has made a significant contribution to
the improvement of women's economic and social status and, indirectly, will
facilitate acceptance of family planning.
1.06      PDRY has already taken the first steps towards the development of
population policies by establishing, in 1976, a National Committee on
Population which is charged with the task of policy formulation and study of
the effects of internal migration. Although it has not yet issued a
comprehensive statement on population, the Government is already pursuing
policies with implications on population size, composition and distribution:
settlement of nomadic groups, women's education and participation in society at
all levels, and expansion of education and health services, including maternal
and child health and family planning. While the Government's principal and
understandable concern at present is the reduction of very high levels of
morbidity and mortality, it recognizes that a decline in fertility will be
necessary to slow natural population increase, to improve per capita economic
growth rate, living standards, and maternal and child health. In the two main
cities, family planning is well accepted: in 1975, for example, a survey of
1,000 women attending urban Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
(MCH/FP) centers showed that 42% of them were practicing contraception (the
pill in 90% of the cases). Contraceptives are provided free in the 38 MCH/FP
centers, mainly to urban women; they can also be purchased in all pharmacies at
a low price. The official objective of family planning is birth-spacing; its
expansion is, however, very seriously hampered by the shortage of female
paramedicals and social workers, which is severe in the cities and critical in
rural areas. Although abortion is legal for medical and social reasons,
subject to medical advice and authorization from the local branch of the Yemeni
Women's Federation, it is not considered a family planning method.
Sterilization has not been encouraged and would in any case be limited by the
shortage of clinical services outside Aden. UNFPA, WHO and UNICEF are
providing support to MCH/FP. UNFPA carried out a US$6 million program between
1979 and 1982, concentrating on institution-building and improving managerial
and technical capabilities; the Government recently requested UNFPA's
assistance for the establishment of a Population Unit within the Ministry of
Information, to develop a national communications strategy for radio and
television, consolidate family planning activities in the field, and promote
family planning among working women.
1.07      In spite of some potentially favorable conditions for fertility
decline, the country's total fertility rate (6.2-7.0) remains one of the



highest in the world, and the comparatively lower rate of natural increase of
the population (2.6% per annum) is mainly a consequence of low health standards
and a high infant mortality rate. The policy implications of this situation
are recognized by national planners: interventions to improve the health
status of the population should be accompanied by a parallel effort to slow
down fertility. However, what is still missing in the country is the percep-
tion that, while dramatic gains in terms of reducing infant mortality can be
obtained relatively quickly and at relatively low cost, fertility decline is a
much more difficult process and will occur at a much slower pace.
Physical Characteristics
1.08      PDRY is a mosaic of small ecological systems where altitude, topo-
graphy, soil and climate combine in many ways to determine various patterns of
human settlement and epidemiological zones. In such a context, national aggre-
gates of disease incidence/prevalence rates give an indication of the overall
magnitude of health problems, but conditions vary markedly in different areas.
Four types of ecological and epidemiological zones were identified during
project preparation:
(a) the coastal plain. The sandy or gravel coastal plain, interrupted by
a few mountain masses of volcanic origin, is dry and not suited for
agriculture; its population density is very low. It includes however
two major semi-permanent rivers (Wadi Tuban and Wadi Bana) and other
smaller wadis (Maifah, Laqm, Himam, Huwairah) which create fertile
agricultural areas extended through irrigation. The constant warm
climate, the presence of permanent water, and a relatively high
population density constitute favorable conditions for communicable
and parasitic diseases, malaria, schistosomiasis, and water-borne and
water-related diseases.
(b) the plateaus. Rocky plateaus betwen 800 and and 1,600 meters of
altitude are located in the midland strip between the coast and the
mountains in the west, and the desert in the east; these are arid,
inhospitable, sparsely populated, and the poorest areas of the
country.  Tuberculosis and malnutrition are typical of the plateaus
area.
(c) the Wadi areas. Cut deep down into the plateaus, the canyons are
fertile areas of high population density and middle income; some of
them are relatively prosperous agricultural areas (Wadi Hadramawt,
Wadi Beihan, Wadi Al Kasar, Wadi Haj). As water is not as abundant
as in the coastal wadis, parasitic and water-related diseases are not
as prevalent; health conditions are generally more favorable, and
relatively higher levels of incomes and education generate a stronger
demand for health services.
(d) the mountain areas. The rugged mountains in the northern part of
Lahej and southern part of Hadramawt have fertile valleys which
differ from the wadis because of their higher altitude, cooler
temperatures, and better rainfall. Tuberculosis, malnutrition and
schistosomiasis are frequent, but isolation of the population in
small clusters limits the spread of diseases. The configuration of
the terrain does, however, create specific problems in terms of



- 4 -
population coverage by health services, and referral of difficult
cases to higher levels of service.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
2.01      The reliability of statistics on population and health is generally
poor and data in this section are either estimates or derived from an erratic
reporting system. Basic demographic indicators show that the situation is
among the worst in the Middle-East and North Africa region: total fertility
rate is in the 6.2-7.0 range, the crude birth rate 45-48 per thousand, the
crude death rate 16-21 per thousand, and the infant mortality rate 146-155 per
thousand live births; estimates for maternal mortality range between 100 and
500 per 100,000 deliveries, and are more likely to be at the upper end.  Life
expectancy at birth, the lowest in the region, is about 45-47 years. Any
attempt to present an epidemiological profile of the country on the basis of
incomplete hospital reports on in-patient cases could be misleading (see Tables
2 and 3), and it is necessary to rely on a coherent reconstruction of prevail-
ing morbidity patterns which show that:
(a)  infant morbidity is mainly due to respiratory infections, diarrheas
and, after 6 months, the growing incidence of communicable diseases
(measles, whooping cough, viral respiratory infections and their
complications); the first contact with malaria, another substantial
cause of morbidity, generally occurs betwen 6 months and 2 years of
age;
(b)  child morbidity, as under similar geographic and economic conditions,
is dominated by malnutrition starting mostly at the weaning period,
aggravated by diarrhea and intercurrent infections; the extent or
incidence of calorie and protein deficiencies is not known; other
major causes of child morbidity are malaria, measles, whooping cough,
meningitis, skin diseases (in particular streptococcal infections
related to scarce water supply and lack of hygiene), and eye infec-
tions (conjunctivitis and trachoma); and
(c)  adult morbidity is dominated by infectious and parasitic diseases,
enteritis, amoebic dysentery, schistosomiasis, malaria and tubercu-
losis. Due to a relatively small population in the older age groups,
cardio-vascular and degenerative diseases do not represent a signifi-
cant burden.
A. Health Status
2.02      The country is still in the first stage of epidemiological transition
where the health status of the population is primarily affected by communica-
ble, infectious and parasitic diseases, and underlying malnutrition. Tropical
diseases, although present in PDRY, do not have an overwhelming weight on the
epidemiological profile. The health status is also affected by chronic infec-
tious diseases due to complication or persistence of common ailments that would
recede if basic health care were more accessible.  Chronic degenerative
diseases do not represent, for the time being, a significant burden.



- 5     -
2.03      The Government fully realizes that many adverse health conditions
stem from poor water supply, housing and sanitation. Aside from Aden's
adequate water supply, other cities have either unsafe or insufficient systems
and only 14% of rural populations have access to safe water.  Sewerage systems
are deficient both in urban and rural environments. Solid waste disposal poses
serious problems. Food hygiene is highly inadequate. All these factors keep
the incidence of water borne and water related diseases extremely high.
Finally, very poor housing conditions and crowding in urban areas create
environments favorable to the spreading of communicable diseases. The
Government, however, also realizes that fully correcting these problems
requires considerable investments that surpass the country's present economic
capacity. The on-going development plan has incluided YD21 million for water
supply and YD90 million for housing, i.e. 4% and 18% respectively of total
investments of the five-year period,
2.04      Epidemiological data are fragmented and incomplete.  Because the
organization of a comprehensive baseline survey exceeded MOPH's present capa-
bility in terms of human and financial resources, it conducted in 1979 an
epidemiological assessment for health planning purposes, with the assistance of
WHO. This exercise aimed at assessing major health problems, identifying
epidemiological priorities, and initiating PHC interventions. The exercise
resulted in the establishment of a list of 10 weighted priority health problems
presented in Annex 1 and summarized below.
2.05       Communicable Diseases of Childhood are ranked first, with measles
and whooping cough as the two major killers for this age group. Deaths from
measles are due, among other factors, to underlying malnutrition.
Poliomyelitis is a significant cause of mortality and residual incapacity.
Tetanus is frequent in rural areas and diphtheria is stil present. A system-
atic program of immunizations against these diseases and tuberculosis started
in 1976; it covers approximately 20% of the population but is rapidly expand-
ing. Malaria, the second priority, is a serious health hazard although, under
prevailing environmental conditions, its control is technically feasible.  The
prevalence is estimated at 31%, and it is likely that as much as two-thirds of
the population live in endemic areas. The overall epidemiological situation
for malaria is thought to be a widespread base of hypo-endemic areas with
seasonal transmission and superimposed foci of meso- and hyper-endemicity. The
MOPH is stepping up a series of control measures and an overall control
strategy will be decided after completion of an epidemiological survey on
patterns of malaria transmission presently underway with the assistance of
WHO. As in most developing countries, diarrhea, the third priority, is the
major single cause of under-five mortality, responsible for 24% of all reported
infant deaths, and 17% of child mortality. Little is known about the relative
importance in the local context of the major contributing factors, and there is
still no systematic approach to the problem; oral rehydration techniques (ORT)
are just being experimented with in Aden. Acute respiratory infections (ARI) -
pneumonitis, pneumonia and bronchopneumonia - are ranked as the third leading
causes of infant mortality; about 2300 children die annually of ARI. In spite
of this high priority, interventions are at present uncoordinated and rather
limited. A package of interventions against ARI has been developed through
international research under WHO coordination and PDRY could be among the first
countries to implement the new systematic program. Tuberculosis, the fifth
priority, has a mortality rate of 50 for 100,000 and a prevalence rate of



- 6 -
2.6%.  The coverage and efficiency of MOPH's program will depend on the
strengthening of the peripheral network of services. Anemia, the sixth
priority, and malnutrition, the seventh, are closely linked; together they
account for 58% of new patients recorded annually. Malnutrition is undoubtedly
the most serious underlying health problem in PDRY. Preliminary studies show
weight for age is consistently below standard values, with 55% of infants from
0 to 3 showing signs of malnutrition and an alarming proportion of 10% with
marasmus.  Lack of food availability and other factors contributing to malnu-
trition such as the decline of breastfeeding and consumption of khat 1/ are
analyzed in Annex 1. Prevalence of communicable eye diseases, the eighth
priority, prevails at an extremely high rate of 22%; trachoma and conjunctivi-
tis account for most of acute and chronic eye lesions. Perinatal deaths, the
ninth priority, is closely associated with the tenth priority - complications
of pregnancy and delivery. Both perinatal mortality and maternal mortality are
due to socio cultural and nutritional factors as well as deficiencies of health
services. The Government expects that recent regulation limiting early
marriages, and expanding health education and family planning services would
achieve birth spacing. In parallel, obstetric and pediatric care would be
strengthened in peripheral hospitals and health centers. However, the shortage
of female staff in peripheral services is presently the major obstacle to the
expansion of MCH.and family planning.
2.06      Several diseases - leprosy, salmonellosis, hepatitis, dysentery and
amobiasis - although not in need of priority attention still account for a
significant part of morbidity and are technically more difficult to control.
Other endemic diseases such as schistosomiasis, typhoid, and cholera, even if
not prominent as causes of morbidity, constitute threats of potential
epidemics.
B. Health Policy and Programming
2.07      The present health status of the population is largely the result of
PDRY's historical past. At independence in 1967, the coverage of the national
network of health services was practically limited to Aden. The Constitution
states that ... medical care is the right of each citizen, and the Government
guarantees this right... through the expansion of free health services... , and
the first two development plans (1971-74 and 1974-78) set general health policy
and objectives as follows: (a) to develop health services and raise their
quantitative and qualitative standards; (b) to expand the network of health
institutions, especially in the remote regions; (c) to train and develop health
personnel at the local level; (d) to take effective measures for protection
against and treatment of infectious and dangerous diseases; and (e) to provide
intensive health care for mothers and children. To achieve these goals, the
two development plans allocated for the health sector, 4.5% and 1.4% respec-
tively of total actual investments. During the two plan periods, considerable
progress was made.  The numbers of hospitals increased from 15 to 26, of health
centers from 5 to 15, and of health units from 99 to 252. In addition, the
supply of medical and paramedical manpower increased substantially. At the
1/ Khat (or qat), a locally grown plant whose leaves are chewed as a
stimulant.



- 7 -
same time, vertical disease prevention and control programs were instituted,
with technical and limited financial support from WHO. A new 400-bed hospital,
financed by the Government of Kuwait, is under construction in Al Mukalla and
will replace the old general hospital. The United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF) has provided materials for the construction of 51 health units
and, more recently, the Islamic Bank has granted US$1-5 million for the
construction of 17 health units. Despite these achievements, only the basic
foundation of a health delivery system were set in place.
2.08      Prior to the joint WHO/UNICEF International Conference on Primary
Health Care (Alma Ata, September 1978), MOPH presented a National Health
Program and, also with WHO assistance, drafted a strategy paper on Primary
Health Care (PHC) with a view to reaching the Alma Ata Conference objective of
Health for All By the Year 2000. The National Health Program identified
epidemiological priorities (see Annex 1) and, for each one, stated specific
targets, manpower and financial requirements.
2.09      The National Health program which embraces the PHC approach (see
para. 3.02) constitutes a very important conceptual and analytical step as well
as a valuable reference document for the sector. Notwithstanding the
considerable effort invested in this programming exercise, which was
comprehensive and identified the needs of the health sector, implementation has
hardly begun: a national Primary Health Care Council was established in MOPH,
the curricula for paramedical training were revised; and new job descriptions
and drug lists were drafted. However, apart from these essentially preparatory
activities and the initiation of pilot schemes in two locations, little actual
implementation has taken place. The reason for this is essentially the lack of
financial resources, coupled with a weak managerial and administrative capacity
within MOPH.
C. Organization of the Ministry of Public Health
2.10      The present organizational structure of the MOPH is shown in Chart 1.
Top authority is vested with the Minister who is assisted by two Deputy-
Ministers. Six bodies with advisory functions are directly attached to the
Minister, the most important being the General Directorate for Planning and
Statistics, and the Advisory Committee. The Deputy-Minister of Public Health
has under his jurisdiction: an Assistant Deputy-Minister for Pharmaceutical
Affairs responsible for the Central Medical Stores, and public and private
pharmacies; and the Director for Administration and Finance in charge of
personnel, accounts, transport, and the stationery store.
2.11      The Deputy-Minister of Public Health Affairs is responsible for all
operational activities. He is seconded by an Assistant Deputy-Minister who
coordinates health service delivery, and has under his jurisdiction:
(a)  the Director of Preventive Medicine and Chairman of the PHC Council,
who controls PHC and all nine vertical (i.e., single disease)
programs (malaria, schistosomiasis, tuberculosis, school health,
occupational health, health education, the Expanded Program of
Immunization, MCH and family planning, and environmental health);
(b) the teaching hospitals;



- 8 -
(c) the Institute of Health Manpower Development (IHiMD) and its three
regional branches; and
(d) the regional Directors of Public Health Services in the six
governorates.
2.12      There is an uneven distribution of MOPH's 3,300 staff (see table 5);
some divisions which benefit from external assistance (malaria, MCH/FP, EPI)
are better staffed and equipped, while others are often unable to perform their
functions. Overall, the administrative and managerial capacities of the
Ministry are still inadequate, while many physicians in charge of essential
activities are relatively young and inexperienced. At the governorate level
there is also an uneven distribution of qualified personnel, with Hadramawt
emerging in a privileged position but, generally, the short supply of expe-
rienced senior staff affects all governorates.
2.13      The process of administrative and technical regionalization and
decentralization has not yet been completed. Lines of authority are not
clearly defined, and reporting and evaluation procedures remain informal.
Building a national health system in PDRY conflicts with deeply embedded local
tradition and sometimes parochial attitudes of rural populations. Developing
coordination mechanisms between different districts, or giving the staff a
sense of responsibility extending beyond the immediate group is a necessarily
slow process in a new country. Health services are delivered by six regional
directorates, one in each of the governorates, enjoying a relatively large
degree of administrative autonomy. District hospitals perform as independent
units and provide only minimal technical guidance and supervision to health
centers which, in turn, have little influence on the work of rural health
units. Specialized activities are effectively implemented only when and where
staff is motivated; otherwise, guidelines and technical orientation are ignored
at the implementation stage. Some staff in charge of vertical programs
(malaria, tuberculosis, EPI, etc.) may be reluctant to delegate
responsibilities to horizontal services which, in turn, do not always welcome
additional duties.
2.14      The PHC approach calls for the integration in due time of all verti-
cal activities under a single delivery system. But this functional integration
of vertical programs will be achieved in phases to avoid disruption in service
delivery. This issue was thoroughly debated in November 1982, within MOPH,
with the assistance of a public health specialist from UNICEF. The decision
taken by the Minister safeguards present activities while paving the way for a
gradual reorganization of the whole MOPH (see Charts 2 and 3). A Central PHC
council has been created, which includes senior MOPH staff and the WHO and
UNICEF representatives in PDRY. A Director General for PHC has been placed at
the head of all vertical programs. Two new Units have been created: one for
Program Development and Evaluation, attached to the Director General for
Planning and Statistics; the second, for Training and Supervision, attached to
the Director General for PHC. The present heads of the vertical programs will
retain their responsibilities for programming, preparation of guidelines and
norms, quality control, and monitoring and evaluation. Priorities have been
set up and integration at the peripheral level has started with Health
Education, MCH/FP, and School Health. Once the PHC network has been
strengthened, integration of other vertical activities will follow. The next



- 9 -
phase of the reorganization of the MOPH -- to take place at a date which cannot
yet be determined -- will see the creation of a Supreme PHC Council, at the
interministerial level, to ensure proper intersectoral coordination. At the
same time parallel PHC Councils will be created at the governorate, district,
and local levels.
D. Sectorial Resources
2.15      During the first years of independence, PDRY had to build a unified
health delivery system with very limited resources. Considerable progress was
achieved. Today, the foundations for a national system are in place. Compared
with many developing countries, PDRY's modest health infrastructure shows
definite advantages: the mix of facilities--dispensaries, health centers and
hospitals--is well balanced; peripheral facilities are relatively well
distributed within the country and, when upgraded, would provide basic health
coverage to all major clusters of population. Moreover, health policy is
strongly directed to low-cost PHC and improving the efficiency of the existing
system rather than expanding the health delivery network.
Infrastructure
2.16      At the first level are 300 dispensaries, scattered in rural areas
(see Table 4); 51 additional ones are being partly financed by UNCDF and seven
by the Islamic Bank. A dispensary, or rural Health Unit (HU) is a
village-based facility consisting of two to three rooms in a small building,
staffed by one or two (male) paramedical personnel, i.e. a Practical Nurse or,
in larger villages, a Medical Assistant; an unskilled worker is sometimes added
for ancillary tasks. The HU provides simple curative care to a population of
3,000-5,000 in a village and nearby hamlets. Except in the two districts where
Health Guides exist, the HU has no outreach capacity and its effective coverage
is limited. Furniture and equipment are rudimentary; however, drug supplies
are usually adequate for their present limited functions. HUs receive
virtually no technical supervision and their effective capacity varies widely.
A limited number of HUs were upgraded or reconstructed during the previous
development plan and adequately staffed with better trained personnel and
operate at full capacity. Others, however, are providing only limited services
(because of the low skills of the paramedical staff or the state of disrepair
of the facility), while a small number of facilities (sometimes dating from the
early 1920's) have been decommissioned altogether.
2.17      The second level of care is provided by 18 Health Centers (HC), often
larger dispensaries located in big villages which were upgraded and equipped
with beds. They are staffed with one physician and/or two or three medical
assistants, one or two nurses, two community midwives, practical nurses, a lab
technician and a pharmacy technician. Each HC delivers primary health care to
the local population (up to 15,000 persons), and also serves as a referral for
secondary care, through outpatient consultations and inpatient care.  In addi-
tion, they are expected to provide MCH education and supervise their satellite
HUs. In practice however, the desired change in functions has not yet taken
place and HCs often still perform as large Health Units or as small hospitals;
their supervision and back-up functions are not well understood by the staff.
The HCs are presently the weakest link in the referral system and a clear
definition of their functions is still needed.



- 10 -
2.18      The third level of care is provided by 29 hospitals with a total
capacity of 2,453 beds, i.e., an average of 1.3 beds for 1,000 population.
Seven hospitals located in Aden act as national hospitals (General, Pediatric,
Maternity, Tuberculosis). In the governorates, an 80-190 bed hospital is
located in the main city; there are also a few smaller hospitals with 40-60
beds. The average number of beds for 1000 population in the major governorates
varies from 1.4 for Lahej to 0.73 and 0.84 for Abyan and Hadramawt respec-
tively. Staffing, quality of service, maintenance of facilities and equipment
vary widely but, in general, hospitals are relatively well run, in a pragmatic
but efficient way.  The hospital infrastructure represents the minimum needed
for comprehensive care and would be sufficient if well integrated in the
overall health delivery system.
Health Manpower
2.19      Immediately following independence, the urgent need for physicians
received priority attention, and candidates were immediately selected for
training abroad, mainly in Eastern European countries. The Institute for
Health Manpower Development (IHMD) was created in Aden in 1970, to train the
main categories of paramedical personnel, and has since been supported by
Sweden (through the Save the Children Federation, RADDA-BARNEN), WHO and UNDP.
It has new classrooms, a library, laboratories and administrative buildings,
and a limited boarding capacity. The rapid expansion of the Institute has
resulted in overcrowding and the Government has requested assistance from
RADDA-BARNEN, SIDA and the Arab Development Fund, to build additional
classrooms, laboratories and a large auditorium to accomodate more than 900
students and 50 teachers. The IHMD operates three regional branches in Lahej,
Abyan and Al Mukalla, each training a group of 40 assistant-nurses; Mukalla
also has two sections for assistant-pharmacy technicians (15) and
assistant-laboratory technicians (15). The three regional branches are housed
in inadequate and crowded facilities and the situation was made worse in 1982
when the curriculum for assistant-nurses was extended to two years (there is
only one classroom in Abyan).  None of the three branches has boarding
facilities and, while housing could be arranged in Al Mukalla, students' living
conditions in Lahej and Abyan are appalling; the absence of boarding facilities
in the three regional branches makes it even more difficult than in Aden to
recruit female candidates.
2.20      Overall, health personnel are insufficient, considering the existing
MOPH network. However, urban facilities tend to be overstaffed and there is
still a shortage of qualified health personnel. The shortage of physicians is
partly compensated by larger numbers of medical assistants; but technicians for
laboratory, X-ray, pharmacy and nutrition, and also sanitarians, midwives,
supervisors, mid-level administrators, etc., are still in short supply. The
major personnel constraints to coverage extension are presently: the uneven
distribution of paramedicals; the inadequate orientation of front line person-
nel whose training is biased towards curative care; the shortage of community
midwives and more generally of female paramedicals who are essential for the
expansion of MCH/FP activities; and the absence of outreach agents.
2.21      In sharp contrast with the situation prevailing in most developing
countries, PDRY's health personnel show considerable dedication to their work.
Subtle mechanisms of kinship and solidarity, as well as a sense of responsi-



- 11 -
bility towards local communities and political organizations make staff more
responsive to the needs of the population. Low absenteism, punctuality and
discipline, as well as kindness to the patients, contribute to smooth relations
between health personnel and local populations. However, productivity and
performance remain relatively low, because of the lack of a systematic
approach, standardized procedures and programming of activities.
2.22      In early 1982, MOPH conducted a comprehensive manpower planning exer-
cise to assess additional staff requirements to meet the goal of Health For All
By the Year 2000. A ten-member working group supported by WHO reviewed the
present manpower situation, established staffing patterns, assessed existing
shortages and additional requirements and, on these bases, recommended training
objectives to be assigned to IHMD and its branches. The working group recom-
mended, in particular, that urgent action be taken to remedy the shortages of
PHC personnel, especially health guides (HGs) and traditional birth attendants
(TBAs); female nursing and midwifery personnel be increased; the capacity of
IHMD branches be expanded; the production of some categories of technicians be
slowed down; the training of public health personnel be stepped up; and the
performance of administrative and support services be improved.
2.23      Medical Personnel.  In 1982, there were 147 physicians in the
country, including 95 nationals trained abroad (see Table 5). Expatriate
physicians are either directly employed by MOPH or serve under bilateral or
multilateral cooperation agreements. Chinese and Cuban medical teams man most
district hospitals. The Aden Faculty of Medicine was created in 1975, and the
first group of 52 locally trained physicians graduated in 1982; the annual
output of the school will vary between 50 and 70 during the next seven years.
In addition, about 10 physicians trained abroad return to the country every
year. Specialists are still trained overseas but, in the future, four basic
specialties will be taught locally: internal medicine, surgery,
obstetric-gynecology and pediatrics. Pharmacists, biochemists and dentists as
well as public health specialists will continue to be trained abroad.
2.24      After six years of education and one year of internship, new doctors
must serve for one year in the National Service in one of the six gover-
norates. Medical education is focussed on the diseases and technological level
of the country, and new graduates are expected to be ready to serve in district
hospitals without further training. However, proper deployment of medical
graduates is hampered by three major obstacles:
(a)  half of medical graduates are women; this commendable distribution
constitutes a disadvantage when it comes to assigning physicians to
the regions;
(b)  most medical students enrolled in the mid-70s were from Aden and show
little interest in serving outside the capital city; as a result,
Aden hospitals are overstaffed in sharp contrast to regional ones;
this problem will gradually be solved after 1986, now that
enrollments include more students from the regions; and
(c)  neither the Medical School nor MOPH have the capacity to supervise
and provide continuing education to new graduates during their Social
Service assignment.



- 12 -
2.25      Paramedical Personnel.  In one decade, the IHMD has trained about
3,000 paramedics (mostly males) in 15 different categories. The number of
graduates during the past five years was about 1,650, including 790 practical
nurses, 160 professional nurses, 210 medical assistants, and 130 community
nurse midwives (see Table 6). The duration of training varies between one (for
practical nurses) and three years (for medical assistants, health inspectors or
pharmacy technicians). Basic requirements for enrollments in all courses were
the completion of nine years of first cycle education; a new system has been
introduced for higher categories of personnel where entrance level requires
completion of four years of secondary education. With increasing numbers of
students completing secondary school, IHMD entrance levels will be gradually
raised, thus upgrading the standard of graduates in all courses. Past
graduates mostly received hospital-based training oriented towards curative
medicine; as a consequence, while nursing services in hospitals are relatively
efficient, nursing staff assigned to the periphery is not well prepared for
delivering preventive care or serving in public health and community work. In
the field there are almost no female workers and wide disparities persist in
terms of distribution of paramedical staff, with Hadramawt Governorate in the
most favorable position.
2.26      Primary Care Personnel.  Staffing patterns in health units and health
centers vary considerably since they are not based on objective criteria such
as a precise definition of functions, task analysis, population served or
catchment area. About half of the health units (a much higher proportion in
the Hadramawt Governorate) are staffed by a medical assistant, with or without
a practical nurse and ancillary staff. In health centers, the number of physi-
cians, medical assistants and other paramedicals also varies widely. In health
units as well as in health centers practically all staff are males.
2.27      The Health Guide (HG) is potentially the key outreach agent that
could make a significant difference in health services coverage in the near
future.  The HG is a volunteer selected by the community.  The only criteria
for eligibility are to be a permanent resident (farmer, school teacher) and to
be able to read and write; in most cases he is the secretary for health of the
local Defense Committee. Age and sex are not specified but so far almost all
HGs have been males aged between 16 and 45. Within the catchment area of a
health unit, and under supervision of its staff, the HG serves as a health
agent for communities of 300-1000 persons. He watches and reports health
conditions, gives simple advice on basic health problems and sanitation,
delivers simple health education messages, provides first aid and elementary
treatment for common ailments, dispenses a few basic drugs, and facilitates
referral of patients. In return,the HG enjoys the recognition of his community
and of the Defense Committee, may receive some help to work his land and, when
applicable, is exempted from the two-year military service. Viewed in the
context of the limited opportunities for promotion in rural areas, the
non-remunerated HG can be expected to stay in service for several years.The
concept of HG is not only attractive in theory but has proved its practical
usefulness within the PDRY context. A total of 90 HGs were trained in Musaymir
(Lahej Governorate) in 1980, and in Bathis (Abyan Governorate) in 1981. MOPH
has now taken the formal decision to extend the HG experience to the whole
country.  It is, however, recognized that in Hadramawt, because of relatively
better socio-economic conditions and the availability of high school graduates,
HGs could be recruited at a higher level or, in some cases, be replaced
altogether by practical nurses. UNICEF has agreed to finance in the beginning



- 13 -
of 1983 an evaluation of the health guide experience and assist in defining the
content and modalities for future training.
2.28      Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs).  Traditional midwives or Giddas
are still active in rural areas but are not part of the health services net-
work.   TBAs mainly provide domestic help to the mother during pregnancy
but little assistance to the delivery itself; their technical competence is
limited and their efficiency sometimes questionable. MOPH is planning to
provide short training for eligible TBAs with a view to utilize them as
outreach agents. Their supervision would be the responsibility of the commu-
nity midwife or of the health guide.  The content, duration, and methods for
training are still under discussion. At any rate, community midwives are still
in short supply and training large numbers of TBAs would be premature until
they can be properly supervised by qualified community midwives.
Pharmaceutical Supplies
2.29      The distribution of drugs in the health network is much more depend-
able than in most countries at comparable levels of income and development of
health services. Most operating facilities receive adequate and timely
supply. However, the expected expansion of the delivery system will generate
an additional demand for drugs, beyond the present storage and distribution
capacity of MOPH at the regional level. The Central Medical Store (CMS)
located in Aden submits twice a year its list of pharmaceutical requirements to
the Ministry of Finance. A British procurement agency (Crown Agents) conducts
international competitive bidding on behalf of PDRY. Drugs are purchased in
the world open market from European, Asian or American countries; they are then
shipped either to Aden or to Al Mukalla (for the Hadramawt Governorate).
Distribution to the regional directorates takes place every three months.
Storage and handling at the CMS is carried out under precarious conditions,
which will be considerably improved in 1983, when the newly built 650 m2
warehouse becomes operational. However, the bottleneck at the governorate
level will not be resolved since present storage space in hospital depots is
already insufficient.
2.30      Annual expenditure on imported drugs (see Table 7) have been increas-
ing regularly in recent years to the level of YD1.5 million in 1981 (about
US$2.20 per capita). In addition, a variety of standard preparations such as
ointments, syrups, lotions, capsules, etc., are produced in the central
hospital's laboratory; these preparations provide appropriate and inexpensive
basic medication for health facilities. As a back-up system, the National Drug
Company (NDC) imports and distributes additional drugs through public and
private retail stores; the exact cost of these imports is not known but is not
very high.
2.31      The list of authorized drugs is realistic and limited:  about 800
generic and brand name products are imported (as compared to several thousands
in most countries). In addition, the absence of marketing, advertising,
private physicians, and also the level of per capita income, limit the dangers
of overprescription and overconsumption of drugs. MOPH exerts good control on
drug utilization. A manual, "Standard List of Drugs and National Formulary,"
prepared by the CMS, is updated periodically and distributed to all physicians
and medical assistants. The CMS has also issued a list of drugs which can be
prescribed or utilized by each professional category. Finally, the CMS and



- 14 -
the Directorate of Primary Health Care have prepared standard drug lists and
normative budgets for drugs for the three types of rural health units and the
health centers.  MOPH has considered the possibility of establishing a cost-
recovery mechanism for non-essential and convenience drugs. The prospects are,
however, limited in view of the political context, the population's low
resources, and the various controls already in place.
Community Health Education
2.32      The concept of health education (HE) is strong within MOPH and indeed
throughout the country, but, except for the interventions of the few health
guides and activities of one health educator in Al Mukalla, there is no
systematic approach to putting into practice a real HE program. Many
uncoordinated activities are carried out by MOPH through the mass
organizations, but again, although welcomed, they are too sporadic to be of
real use.  With its increasing commitment to PHC, MOPH has recognized that
health education is essential if PHC is to succeed.  For this purpose it
recently created a Directorate for Health Education and appointed its Director
whose task will be to build the foundations of a nationwide Community health
education system, starting with the three governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt. The greatest potential for the development of health education lies
however with the mass organizations. When a solid central health education
system is in place, these organizations will be in a position to spread their
messages nationwide. Four such organizations reach every person in the country
in both urban and rural areas, and are all concerned with social development as
part of their official mandate. They are the People's Defense Committees, the
General Union of Yemeni Women, the Agricultural Cooperatives, and Asheed, the
Yemeni Youth Organization. They have outposts everywhere and indeed reach the
people in towns as well as villages. If one adds the municipalities, which are
concerned with environmental sanitation, there exists a very important
infrastructure for social betterment. While all organizations are genuinely
interested in health, their many demands for support are now only partially met
by MOPH for want of staff, resources, and information, education and
communication (IEC) materials.
Health Expenditure
2.33      Total health expenditure (see Table 7) has been growing by more than
30% p.a. since 1977 in nominal terms, to reach the level of YD8.l million in
1981 (US$23.5 million). Capital expenditure shown in the table is negligible;
however, these figures provided by MOPH include only locally financed invest-
ments. Table 9 presents estimates from the Ministry of Planning which include
investments financed through external sources as well; they show that total
investments in the health sector are expected to reach the level of YD6.1
million in 1982 (US$17.7 million), i.e., 3.5% of total development expenditure
(up from 1% in 1976). From 1976 to 1982, the share of health in social sectors
investments increased from 6.6% to 11.4%; during the same period, capital
expenditure in social sectors was raised from 15% to more than 30% of overall
development expenditure.
2.34      Current health expenditure for. 1981 was about YD8.1 million (US$23.4
million) or some YD4 per capita (US$12).  This represents an average annual
increase of 31% since 1977 in current prices. The share of health in Govern-
ment's recurrent budget was about 6% in 1981 against 5.4% in 1977.  Table 8



- 15 -
shows a functional distribution of current health expenditure by regions and
categories. Salaries and allowances represent 58% of MOPH operating costs and
drugs 18%. The central hospital of Al Gomhoria alone absorbs 13% of MOPH
recurrent budget, drugs not included. The low and inadequate level of outlays
for maintenance of buildings and equipment (1.4%) is worth noting.
Transportation costs have also been kept at a low level (2%); this reflects the
cost awareness of MOPH senior management but also illustrates limited outreach
activities in what is still a predominantly curative system. Finally, there
are little private expenditures on health in PDRY, except for over-the-counter
purchases of drugs; no estimates are possible as to their importance but they
are not likely to reach significant amounts.
2.35      Finally, considerable financial support is provided to the health
sector by six UN Agencies, the Islamic Development Bank, the Arab Fund and at
least six bilateral sources (see Table 10). This external assistance is
coordinated by the Ministry of Planning and directly handled by the Ministry of
Finance.
Project Preparation
2.36      Most of the conditions needed to launch a viable primary health care
program are present in PDRY: sound conceptual approach, clearly stated poli-
cies and objectives, pragmatism and realism within MOPH leadership, absence of
an overtaxing infrastructure, dedication of front-line staff, active community
participation, and presence of mass organizations at the outreach level. For
these reasons, PDRY was selected by WHO's Governing Body as one of the seven
countries where the development of primary health care will be closely moni-
tored in the perspective of Health for All by the Year 2000.  However, in the
circumstances described in the sectorial analysis, a primary health care pro-
gram could not be carried out nationwide in the foreseeable future. Having
recognized this reality, the Government has decided to give priority to
improving the quality and effective coverage of existing facilities and
services. These decisions, and the Government's pragmatic approach, have
created a favorable environment for the proposed IDA financial and technical
assistance.
2.37      The Project would mark IDA's first operation in PDRY's health
sector. While other bilateral and multilateral organizations are expected to
continue their involvement in the sector, most of this aid will still be in the
form of technical assistance. IDA's principal role would, therefore, be to
provide financial assistance and, through the technical and institutional
support associated with Bank projects, to strengthen MOPH's management and
implementation capability. The preparation of the proposed health development
project has generated considerable interest within MOPH, and improved morale
at all levels. It has also raised expectations of the staff whose day-to-day
activities have so far always been hampered by insufficient resources and
difficult working conditions. Two consultants recruited under a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) have helped senior MOPH staff conceptualize and
formulate their assistance requirements. Eight middle-level officials attended
an overseas short-term training course in public health. A Coordinator was
appointed to supervise project preparation, and with UNICEF assistance, he
carried out a survey of all health facilities in the three project governorates
of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt. A national health map (to be finalized by MOPH,
where a cartographer was recruited for this purpose) was prepared. A



- 16 -
Directorate for Health Education was created. More realistic standards were
adopted for staffing facilities, population coverage, and for a more adequate
size of health facilities. A better understanding was reached as to the nature
and extent of services to be provided to the population at each level of the
health delivery system. An overall strategy for gradual integration of
vertical programs was agreed upon. Timetables were adopted for each major
activity to be carried out by MOPH as part of the development of its primary
health care system. Finally, the Ministry of Finance will allocate YD200,000
(US$600,000) in the MOPH budget to allow for an initial expansion of PHC
activities, as soon as the project becomes operational.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
3.01      The Government of PDRY has, since independence in 1967, recognized
the urgent need to improve the health status of its population. Throughout
much of the 1970s, the MOPH attempted to do this mainly through expansion of
physical infrastructure, establishment of a set of vertical health programs
each aimed at a specific disease, and manpower development emphasizing
hospital-based training oriented towards curative medicine. By 1978, the
Government, noting the limited coverage of the system (16% of the population),
the lack of correspondence between the services provided and the health needs,
and the inefficiency of a set of vertical programs, decided to adopt a National
Health Program, emphasizing the provision of primary health care to meet the
priority health needs of the population in a more cost-effective fashion.  The
Government, with WHO support, has completed much of detailed planning needed
for the new policy, including identification of health priorities, physical and
manpower planning for the provision of primary care, preparation of drug lists
and new job descriptions, and a strategy for the integration of the vertical
programs into the primary health care system. However little actual
implementation has taken place due to a lack of financial resources and the
weak managerial and administrative capacity of MOPH. The proposed project
would help the Government implement the new health policy in three Governorates
over a four year period. It would emphasize improvements in the efficiency and
effectiveness of the existing service delivery network, rather than expanding
it. However, in view of the critical shortage of female nurses -- a con-
straint which cannot be alleviated in the short run -- expansion of family
planning services, during the project period, would be limited. It would
constitute the first phase of a more cost-effective approach to health service
delivery and, by providing MOPH with implementation experience on a significant
scale pave the way for nationwide introduction of primary health care.
3.02      The project concept is based on a PHC approach which consists of
measures and activities at the community level, where the national health care
system is in direct contact with individuals, families and the community. The
community shares the responsibility for PHC, while the other levels of the
delivery system provide continuous support in terms of technical knowledge,
supervision, logistics, training and referral (see Annexes 2 and 3). The
fundamental objective of PHC is to deliver preventive and curative services
through a more cost-effective mechanism operating as follows:



- 17 -
(a)  at the peripheral level (hamlets or clusters of popula-
tion), a health guide and a traditional birth attendant
would serve as voluntary outreach agents for a group of 300
persons or more; they would watch for and report on health
and sanitation problems, provide advice on simple ailments,
dispense first aid, and relay health education messages;
(b)  at the village level, health units of different sizes
serving a population between 3,000 and 8,000, staffed by
one to four paramedicals, would provide essential primary
health care services, curative as well as preventive;
(c)  in each sub-district (Markaz) a health center located in a
large village would serve the immediately adjacent popula-
tion and at the same time constitute a referral unit for
the entire markaz (about 15,000 persons). Health centers
would have defined responsibilities for supervision, train-
ing, and logistical support for their satellite health
units;
(d)  in district headquarters (Mudiryat), a small hospital would
have a double function: its outpatient section would serve
as the front line unit for the immediately adjacent popula-
tion, while its specialized services would provide inpa-
tient secondary level care for the entire mudiryat ( an
average of 75,000 persons); and
(e)  at governorate and central levels, governorate hospitals,
and specialized and university hospitals in Aden would
provide tertiary level care.
3.03      The fundamental objective of the project would be to improve the
health status of the population, in the three governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt which include a mostly rural population of almost 1.4 million, i.e.,
68% of the country's total but 80% of all Yemenis living in rural areas (the
Governorate of Aden is essentially urban and comparatively in a more favorable
position; the other two Governorates, with a small and very scattered
population, and less developed health services would be more difficult to cover
at this stage). To achieve this objective, the project would help strengthen
and improve the organization and quality of care of the health delivery system,
rehabilitate and upgrade the network of health facilities at the peripheral and
village levels, and concentrate on the ten priority areas of intervention
identified in the National Health Program. It would also help upgrade and
retrain existing paramedical personnel, and train front line voluntary health
workers of both sexes to increase the outreach capacity of the delivery
system. The development and implementation of a well-structured IEC program
would help mobilize the support for primary health care at the community level
through the active participation of mass organizations. Finally, the MOPH's
management, programming, monitoring and evaluation capacity would have to be
strengthened, at the central and regional levels.



- 18 -
3.04      The objective of the project would be to improve the population's
health status by reducing the incidence of major diseases. Because of the
inadequate statistical basis, no precise quantified objectives can be set up at
this stage; the order of magnitude of expected changes is discussed below in
para. 6.01. The project would, however, generate data so that specific targets
can be set and monitored once the improved reporting system becomes
operational. By the end of the Project, the number of beneficiaries, in terms
of population served, would increase from the present 449,000 (33%) to a total
of 1,280,000 (83%) out of a total 1987 population of more than 1.5 million.
Among the beneficiaries would be included 49,000 infants, 190,000 children and
more than 282,000 women of reproductive age.
B. Project Composition
3.05      The project would include four components: (a) development of basic
health services; (b) manpower development; (c) community health education and
participation; and (d) strengthening the Ministry of Public Health. Project
allocations for the four components would be about 75%, 7%, 3% and 13%
respectively, and less than 3% for a Project Preparation Facility included in
total project costs.
3.06      The project would provide for:
(a) Development of basic health services
(i) Extended coverage and improved services in the three
governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt;
(ii) Upgrading and repair of 139 existing health units;
reconstruction and replacement of 39 health units;
and construction of 16 additional ones; and
(iii) Equipment and furniture for a total of 186 health
units, and additional equipment for 15 health
centers.
(b) Manpower development
(i) Setting-up of four training and supervision teams;
(ii) Training of 480 health guides and 120 traditional
birth attendants, and in-service training of 580
medical assistants, practical nurses and community
midwives; and
(iii) Vehicles for the training and supervision teams (4);
(c) Community health education and participation
(i) Development of a four-year IEC program; preparation
of a National Health Education Seminar; drafting of
a Community Health Education Field Manual; and publi-
cation of a Quarterly Health Education Bulletin;



- 19 -
(ii) Production of eight films on basic health themes,
and demonstration materials;
(iii) Audio-visual equipment and materials, and 4
vehicles; and
(iv) Technical assistance (3 m/m) and overseas training
(5 m/m).
(d) Strengthening MOPH management capacity
(i) Strengthening programming, implementation, monitor-
ing and evaluation of health services;
(ii) Renovation of offices, and additional equipment and
furniture, for the Project Implementation Unit and
the Health Education Directorate in Aden, and the
three regional Health Directorates;
(iii) Vehicles for the Project Implementation Unit (3) and
the regional Health Directorates (8); and
(iv) Technical assistance (45 m/m) and overseas training
(13 m/m) in areas not already covered by other
bilateral or multilateral organizations.
3.07      The Government's proposal which was appraised by the IDA mission
represented US$17.9 million and comprised other components which could not be
retained at this stage because of insufficient financing. While the proposed
project has been designed so that it is self-contained and is fully justified
on its own merits, the Government is seeking about $7 million of additional
co-financing, to include at a later stage (see Annex 8):
(i) the construction of equipment, furniture and 9 vehicles for three
regional medical stores for drugs and supplies (see para. 3.16);
(ii) the .construction of equipment, furniture and 9 vehicles for three
paramedical schools, with boarding facilities (see para. 3.24).
While not included in the project, these are described in the Appraisal Report
for the information of the institutions to which financial support has been
asked by the Government.
Development of Basic Health Services
3.08      The MOPH network in the three governorates (see table 4) could, in
theory, provide services for 75% of the 1.4 million population. Yet, because
of the state of disrepair of most health units, insufficient and old equipment,
shortages and uneven distribution of skilled personnel, poor organization, and
lack of outreach agents, the present coverage is estimated at only 449,000
persons, i.e., about 33%. Without overtaxing MOPH's recurrent budget, the
Project would provide MOPH with the means to implement its PHC scheme described
in Annex 2, following specific technical guidelines for the ten priority areas
of intervention; it would improve quality of preventive and curative care,



- 20 -
extend population coverage and rationalize the supply of drugs, improve their
distribution, and monitor their consumption. Earlier detection of cases,
better management of patients and follow-up by outreach agents would signifi-
cantly improve the impact of health services. Coordination of inputs and
regular supervision would be essential parts of a cost-effective approach in
delivering basic health services to mainly rural underprivileged populations.
3.09      The Project would expand MCH and family planning, at the national
level through the IEC component, and in the three governorates by extending
services at the peripheral level. New messages on family planning to be con-
veyed through mass media, as well as sex education modules for primary and
secondary schools, would be prepared by the Directorate for Health Education.
At the same time, the MOPH would give priority to the training of community
midwives in order to increase the number of female nurses and develop MCH/FP
interventions in district hospitals and health centers. However a meaningful
expansion of MCH/FP at the peripheral level will not be possible until the
network of health units has been upgraded and fully staffed, with a sufficient
number of female nurses, and outreach agents (traditional births attendants and
health guides) have been trained in sufficient numbers.
3.10      Coverage.  The 225 health units in the project area have been
analyzed according to their present operational capacity and catchment area --
an essential step towards a more rational allocation of staff, drugs, and
equipment, and for setting up a monitoring and evaluation system.  These
facilities are now classified into three groups (HU1, HU2 and HU3; see Annexes
2 and 3), with varying catchment areas, functions and staffing patterns.
"Accessibility" and "coverage" concepts were tested during project preparation
through a detailed geographic study carried out in two areas of Lahej gover-
norate with different patterns of human settlement. The results were then
extrapolated to the whole project area to estimate the actual coverage which
would be achieved by upgrading or replacing dilapidated facilities, adding new
ones, improving the organization of service delivery and extending outreach
with the help of community midwives, health guides and traditional birth
attendants. While these estimates would need to be revised once the detailed
health mapping exercise has been finalized, and when more accurate demographic
data are provided by a new census, they show that, by the end of the four-year
project (1987), the total population of approximately 1.5 million would have
the following coverage:
(a) 64% of the population would have direct access to a health facility
located within one-hour walking distance; these 965,000 persons would be
considered as fully covered and provided with preventive as well as curative
care; they would also be fully accessible to outreach agents and to mobile
teams conducting health education, immunizations, malaria control, sanitation,
etc.; this population would also be supplied with basic drugs and monitored on
a regular basis; and
(b) about 21% of the population would have more difficult access to a
health facility located between one- and two-hours' walking distance (there are
hardly any other practicable means of transportation in most rural areas);
these 315,000 persons would occasionally seek curative care and very rarely
preventive care and would be difficult to reach by mobile teams; however, out-
reach agents (health guides and traditional births attendants) would play an
active role in communities of at least 300 people.



- 21 -
The rest of the population, i.e., about 15% or 220,000 persons, would still be
considered as inaccessible by the end of the Project; they would seek health
services in emergency cases and only exceptionally for curative care because
of the high costs of proper supervision, outreach agents would not be con-
sidered at the very remote level for the time-being.
3.11      Drug allocation and supply.  Four lists of drugs were prepared,
corresponding to the three types of health units and the health centers (see
Table 11). The lists are realistic and appropriate for PDRY's epidemiological
conditions and PHC objectives:  they include a small number of drugs in simple
and stable form, a deliberate effort having been made to limit injectables or
products requiring special storage. The drugs retained are of proven effec-
tiveness and safety at the level of care they are intended to be prescribed;
unless brand name products were found more advantageous, all drugs in the lists
are generic drugs. Overall, only 53 products would be available for distribu-
tion in the PHC system out of a total of some 800 used in hospitals, resulting
in considerable savings and simplification in procurement, storage, distribu-
tion, monitoring, and control. The list for HU1 was drastically limited to 4
dressings and 16 drugs, all of which are to be administered orally; this list
could be expanded in case the facility is manned by a medical assistant instead
of a health assistant. The basic list for HU2 includes 9 dressings and 29
drugs -- 2 of which are injectables. The list for HU3 expands to 9 dressings
and 45 drugs, with 5 injectables. The wider allocation for Health Centers
includes 53 drugs. Health Guides would be allowed to distribute only a limited
number of basic drugs such as aspirin, chloroquin, rehydration salts and
ophthalmic ointments. Traditional birth attendants would be supplied with
antiseptic lotion, ophthalmic ointment and sterile umbilical dressings.
Finally, health facilities would receive vaccines, chemicals or special drugs
only when needed for the treating tuberculosis, leprosy, schistosomiasis, etc.
The drugs allocation as described does not include laboratory reagents that
would be needed in  UI3 and Health Centers at a later stage, and would be
supplied directly by the Central Medical Store.
3.12      The standard lists of drugs would be tested during the first year of
project implementation. As consumption is monitored and more detailed data are
collected on the outreach population and number of persons served, standard
allocations would be adjusted to match actual requirements of each unit. On
the average, allocations of drugs at the health unit level now amount to
TJS$1670 per year.   To respond to additional requirements arising from improved
coverage and services in the ten priority areas, the project would provide for
a gradual increase in yearly allocations up to an average of US$1885 per health
unit (in constant prices) by Project completion. Health Guides would receive a
yearly provision of basic drugs amounting to USS348; TBAs supplies would be
taken from HUs allocations.   By the fourth year of the Project, incremental
expenditure on drugs at the peripheral level in the three governorates would
correspond to US$167,000, less than 4X of MOPH's 1981 current expenditure on
drugs (US$4.3 million). Per capita outpatient consumption of basic drugs at
the peripheral level would not exceed US$0.60, yet be sufficient to cover
essential PHC needs.
3.13      Manpower Requirements.  Out of 3,300 MOPH staff, about 2,000 are
assigned to the project area (see Table 5). The 17 hospitals in the project
area have a total estimated staff of 1,370. there are about 580 paramedicals



- 22 -
and 50 nonmedical personnel in the 12 MCH centers, 225 health units, and 15
health centers of the project area. As mentioned earlier (para. 2.25) the
present staffing situation is characterized by the uneven distribution of
paramedicals and their insufficient skills rather than quantitative shortages.
Additional manpower requirements generated by the Project would be minimal
(about 30) since only 16 rural health units would be added to the peripheral
network; the operation of the 32 IJnited Nations Capital Development Fund
(UNCDF) units under construction would require about 90 paramedicals. Steps
have already been taken by the MOPH to fill some of the 120 posts through an
improved deployment of about 20% of existing personnel; additional requirements
will be easily covered by the output of the IHMD and its three regional
branches; however, at least 120 community midwives would have to be trained to
fill present vacancies (See para. 3.19). The recruitment in four years of this
limited number of additional health personnel could be financed by MOPH's
recurrent budget (health guides and traditional birth attendants will be unpaid
voluntary workers).
3.14      Infrastructure Development.  Health units are generally located in
old houses which were not designed, and are often not suitable for, health
services. Moreover, past allocations in MOPH's budgets have been insufficient
to ensure proper maintenance and were largely absorbed by hospitals. As a
result, out of 225 healtb units, only 47 are in satisfactory condition; as many
as 139 need to be upgraded or repaired; 39 units must be reconstructed
altogether.  To raise health services to a minimum acceptable level and reach
the population coverage mentioned above, 16 additional rural health units would
have to be built in areas of high population density. These 16 HUs would
supplement the additional coverage expected from the construction of 32 large
health units (170 m2 on the average) financed by the UNCDF and being built
under UNICEF supervision.  Overall, the project would thus include the
upgrading of 139 HUs at an average unit cost of US$8,700 and the construction
of 55 new HUs, i.e., 15 HUs of 56 m2 and 40 HUs of 99 m2, at an average unit
cost of US$44,000 and US$77,000, respectively (excluding contingencies).
Careful design for each type of unit made it possible to limit the impact of
extremely high construction costs which vary between US$661 and US$880 per m2
in the project area.
3.15      The project would include furniture and equipment for the 55 new HUs
(US$97,000 and US$28,000, respectively, excluding contingencies), as well as
the 186 existing ones (US$317,000 and US$90,000, respectively). It would also
finance additional equipment for the 15 Health Centers operating in the three
governorates (US$22,000). The inclusion of a small refrigerator for specific
drugs and vaccines and simple laboratory equipment in the 166 larger HUs would
represent an additional amount of US$253,000.
3.16      Storage of drug and medical supplies in the three governorates now
takes place in overcrowded space within the old hospitals. To improve storage
of drugs as well as goods provided under the World Food Program, separate
management of PHC and hospital's allocations, and organize a regular and
dependable distribution system, new warehouses would be needed in Lahej, Abyan
and Mukalla in the Fifth Governorate; the first two would have an area of 285
m2 and the other 399 m2. Detailed designs, bills of quantities and tender
documents were prepared but, due to shortage of funds, the three stores were
not included in the project and co-financing is being sought by the Government



- 23 -
(see para. 3.07). Total cost of civil works (excluding contingencies) would be
US$621,000; furniture and equipment US$112,000. Each store would be allocated
a lorry, a pick-up, and a fork-lift at a total cost of US$99,000 for the nine
vehicles.
Manpower Development
3.17      Adequately trained front-line personnel of both sexes is a prerequi-
site for successful implementation of the PHC strategy. However, training by
conventional methods would not permit the upgrading of the skills of existing
staff rapidly enough to meet the urgent needs of the sector. Moreover, IHMD's
capacity is already fully utilized and theoretical classroom training is hardly
appropriate for PHC needs. Consequently, the project would support MOPH's
approach to manpower development under a revised, PHC-oriented curriculum. To
meet short-term requirements of the PHC system, the project would help
establish a regional capacity for in-service training, field supervision, and
continuing education through mobile training and supervision teams.  In a
longer term perspective, in order to increase and improve the quality of the
sector's training capacity of health assistants, while at the same time
facilitating the recruitment of candidates -- especially women -- from the
country's most populated areas, it will be necessary to build three new
regional branches of the IHMD, to replace the inadequate existing facilities
(see para. 3.24). The annual output of the three IHMD branches would remain at
about 120 health assistants and 15 technicians. The IHMD has already revised
the curriculum for practical nurses who, starting in 1982, receive a two-year
training to become health assistants; it has also designed the retraining
program for existing field staff.
3.18      Training and Supervision Teams (TSTs).  Four TSTs would be created
under the project, to be based in Lahej, Abyan and in Seyun and Al Mukalla for
the Hadramawt governorate. They would provide: technical guidance for PHC;
reorientation training for existing personnel; training for Health Guides and
TBAs; intensive supervision of newly deployed personnel; and on-going supervi-
sion thereafter. Later in the project, TSTs would become the principal channel
for continuing education. Eventually, when PHC activities have expanded,
District TSTs would be established, to supplement governorate TSTs. The TSTs
would be part of, and directly supported by the regional Directorates of Health
Services.  Each team would consist of one medical assistant, one community mid-
wife, and one assistant health inspector, all selected among experienced staff
with previous supervision responsibilities.  The TSTs would be selected during
the first quarter of 1983, and after a training of about a week with IHMD
assistance, they are expected to participate in the evaluation of the Musaymir
Health Guides performance. The cost of operating the four governorate TSTs
during the four-year period is estimated at US$116,000, including travel,
subsistence allocations, and materials and supplies.
3.19      Retraining of field staff.  Field staff presently manning health
posts, health centers and hospitals have been in service for a number of
years.  Their initial training had a strong curative, hospital-based
orientation and they have always operated under predominantly curative
assignments. These staff must undergo a reorientation training to understand
and support the new approaches set by the MOPH through PHC.  However, they
cannot be withdrawn for extended periods from their current assignments without
disrupting service delivery.  The reorientation training would thus preferably
take place at the district level, as near as possible to the working place,



- 24 -
through 3 to 4 workshop sessions varying between 2 to 5 days each, according to
the category of personnel. Each staff would complete his reorientation within
a three-months period. Training would be given by the TSTs, with support from
regional and central staff. Over the four-year project period, a total of 580
medical assistants, practical nurses and community midwives would be retrained
(190 in Lahej 150 in Abyan and 240 in Hadramawt), at an estimated total cost
of US$252,000.
3.20      Basic training for community midwives.  This category of health
personnel is crucial for the extension of MCH and family planning services at
the periTheral level.  Training of community midwives (CMs) now takes place in
Aden at the IiO4D where 40 women graduate every year at the end of a two-year
cs-_rse. However9 boarding capacity for women at the IHMD is very limited and
th_ majority of the student-midwives have to be selected among Aden residents;
once they graduate, they are reluctant to serve in remote rural areas where,
moreover, they are not always well accepted by the population. Boarding
facilities for female students are included in the three regional paramedical
schools for which co-financing is being sought by the Government i.e. 30 places
ir Lahej and Abyan and 20 places in Al Mukalla (see para. 3.07). The main
benefits of the expanded boarding capacity would occur after the proposed
four-year project.  In the meanwhile, and for the next three IHMD promotions
scarting in 1983, 1984 and 1985, MOPH will  give priority to candidates from
the three governorates. Temporary solutions, such as the utilization of
Government-owned houses for boarding, additional housing subsidies, mandatory
assignment, or financial incentives will be used in the interim as required.
These measures would result in about 100 graduate CMs being assigned to the
three governorates by project completion; this would fill part of the present
shortage of CGs estimated at 160. During negotiations, assurances were
obta4ined that appropriate measures/incentives will be designed by MOPH to
rec-rnit every year at least 30 candidates from the three governorates of Lahej,
Abyan and Hadramawt for CM-training, and to assign them to their districts of
rlgi-n upon graduation.
3.21      Health Guides (EGs)>  The project would provide for the training of
HGs by the regional branches of IHMD and the TSTs, to be organized in
three-month sessions, i.e., two months of formal courses separated by one month
of practical work in health units manned by medical assistants.   At least 40
HGs would be trained every year in each governorate, i.e., 480 over the
four-year project period.  Since a HG would serve a community of 300 persons on
the average, this would extend PHC coverage by about 144,000 persons in four
years. TXe cost of training HGs included in the project, is estimated at
US$l7 4000.
3X22      Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs).  The decision has been taken to
integrate at least part of the giddas or TBAs as outreach agents of the PHC
system. However, because of the technical and political implications of this
approach, agreement still has to be reached on the nature and scope of the
program as well as the practical steps for its implementation. The project
wouald provide for a survey, to be carried out by the General Directorate for
PHC and the MCH/FP staff, to gather basic information on types, practice
patterns, values, beliefs, literacy and skills of TBAs in order to determine
under what conditions they could qualify as outreach agents. Training modules
would then be prepared and specific objectives established, consistent with the
deployment of new CMs responsible for supervising TBAs.  The cost of the survey
is included in the funds allocated to applied research in PHC ($76,000); the



- 25 -
cost of their training is also included in the project ($18,000).
3.23      Continuing Education.  While the retraining of existing personnel is
being carried out in the field, MOPH would prepare a program for on-the-job
continuing education for all PHC staff, to start being implemented by the
third year of the Projet. The program would concentrate on operational
matters, with special emphasis on the ten priority diseases; it would corres-
pond to a mechanism for the integration of all levels of care and the dissemi-
nation of technical norms and procedures rather than a system for upgrading the
scientific skills of PHC workers; it would not lead to an automatic reclassifi-
cation of jobs or changes in assignments but is intended to gradually reshape
health manpower according to changing needs. Continuing education would be
essential to maintain the PHC orientation and public health concern of the
staff.  As both the IHMD and the Medical School would participate in the prep-
aration of training modules, this would yield indirect benefits for future
medical and paramedical education. The cost of the first two years of imple-
mentation of the continuing education program is included in the project
($152,000).
3.24      Infrastructure.  The Government is seeking co-financing for the
construction of the three regional branches of the IHMD, to replace the
existing inadequate facilities (see paras. 2.19 and 3.07); detailed
architectural designs and bidding documents have been finalized. The IHMD
regional branches have a crucial role to play in meeting the sector's long-term
needs for adequately trained paramedicals. They have the responsibility to
train the health assistants who run the first level health units and supervise
outreach agents. The curriculum for health assistants has been revised and
extended to two years to reflect the new orientations of the delivery system
and the specific needs of the PHC approach. Incremental operating costs would
be low and borne by MOPH's budget since the three branches are already staffed
and provisions were made for 40 additional students in each branch as of 1982.
The paramedical schools of Lahej and Abyan would have a capacity of 90 students
with boarding facilities for all 60 males and 30 females. The one in Al
Mukalla (Hadramawt Governorate) would have a capacity of 120 students, with
boarding facilities for 40 males and 20 females (housing is relatively easy in
the city and MOPH already has some houses for the students at subsidized
prices). Detailed and separate cost estimates were made for each school,
boarding facility and communal areas, and corresponding furniture and equipment
(see Annex 8). Excluding contingencies, civil works for the three branches
would represent US$4.1 million, and furniture and equipment US$806,000. Each
branch would be provided with a minibus, a pick-up and a four-wheel drive; the
total cost of the nine vehicles was estimated at US$84,000.
Community Health Education
3.25      The Project would assist MOPH develop a well-structured health educa-
tion program where basic and operational interventions are carried out in
face-to-face situations and with the support of mass organizations strengthen-
ing the credibility of front-line health workers. As a first step, the newly
created Health Education Directorate would be organized, and a Health Education
Department would be set up in each of the three governorates. The Health Educa-
tion Directorate would include, in addition to the Director also responsible
for field supervision, two assistants (one for administration, the other for
production), and support staff. At the field level, a Health Education Officer



- 26 -
would be assigned in each governorate (the post is already filled in Hadra-
mawt). A mobile unit with projection equipment and a public address system
would be based in each governorate, and three vehicles would be provided under
the Project for this purpose.
3.26      The Health Education Directorate is preparing a four-year program of
action with special emphasis on measles, nutrition, infant diarrhea, malaria,
personal hygiene, drugs and alcohol, breast-feeding, mother and child care and
preparation of weaning foods, tuberculosis, and family planning. It will be
presented to a National Health Education Seminar -- to be organized in Aden by
June 1983 -- which will bring together senior MOPH staff involved in PHC, field
supervisors and representatives from all mass organizations. The seminar would
permit discussion and agreement on future working relationships at the central,
regional and outreach levels, and the nature and scope of activities for each
organization. It would also pave the way for the preparation of a Field Manual
for PHC staff. The Directorate would finally produce a Quarterly Bulletin to
serve as a constant teaching document and an active link with field personnel.
3.27      One of the main features of the component would consist of eight
films on basic health themes produced in PDRY through the Public Corporation
for Cinema; they would supplement MOPH's film library which would also be
expanded with additional donations from UNICEF and WHO, and films purchased
under the Project. Radio and television programs would be developed through the
production of video and cassette tape recordings. Posters would also be
designed and produced by the Directorate.  Finally, support would be provided
to the Ministry of Education, to update HE in school curricula. As the Project
gains momentum, feedback from the field would help improve focus of HE messages
on specific target groups or diseases. The total cost of the production of
health education materials is estimated at US$112,000, and included in the
project.
3.28      Technical assistance would be essential during the first stages of
the implementation of the HE component. UNICEF has agreed in principle to
provide the services of an advisor in this area; in addition, the Project would
finance three man/months of an HE specialist. Moreover, WHO will gradually
reorient its support to the MOPH to cover new fields of expertise, including
health education (see para. 3.28). This assistance would be geared to the
organization of the National Seminar, the preparation of the Field Manual,
on-the-job training of the two Assistant-Directors, and the installation and
support of the three governorate HE Officers. To speed up the process, a brief
exposure of key HE staff to on-going projects in other countries is considered
essential, and the project would finance 5 m/m of overseas training for the
director of HE, the Assistant-Director for production and the three governorate
HE Officers.
Strengthening the MOPH
3.29      To achieve project objectives by implementing the PHC scheme, with
the accompanying training program, and designing and executing new IEC activi-
ties, MOPH capabilities would have to be strengthened at the central as well as
the regional level. This component would bring additional means for MOPH in
terms of technical staff, consultant services, fellowships, and logistical
support. Additional national technical staff are being reassigned to specific
posts directly related to project implementation. Keeping in mind the



- 27 -
considerable amount of technical assistance currently provided to the Ministry
(144 m/m in 1982 from WHO/UNDP alone), and the large number of overseas
training fellowships from bilateral and multilateral sources, the project would
only finance 48 m/m of consultant services and 18 m/m of fellowships (see annex
4, pages 12 and 13) to answer more specialized or urgent needs in critical
project-related areas (see paras. 3.28 and 3.30 to 3.32). IDA's approval would
be required on the selection of candidates for overseas fellowships and the
nature and location of their training. In addition, understandings have been
reached so that WHO and UNDP would increase their technical assistance program
by 20 m/m for the first two years, and fill future vacancies, with three
full-time advisors in health planning, health education, and health statistics
and epidemiology. This was confirmed in writing by the Government during
negotiations.
3.30      Programming, Coordination and Evaluation.  While PHC provides the
conceptual framework for the development of basic health services, its
implementation in the field would require more detailed programming, continuous
monitoring, and the active participation of senior regional staff. To support
the Director General for PHC who would be responsible for programming and
coordination, the project would provide for short term consultant services in
such areas as PHC management, family planning, and health planning. For the
same purpose, the project would include a total of 9 m/m of fellowships for
overseas training of three specialists in public health, MCH and family
planning, and nutrition.
3.31      Training.  The project would also provide for the services of a
short-term training specialist to assist the General Directorate for PHC and
the IHMD in evaluating the on-going training program, assessing the adequacy of
the curricula, and recommend, if needed, appropriate measures to improve the
implementation of this component. One two-months fellowship for overseas
training has been earmarked for the same purpose.
3.32      Health Statistics.  MOPH's reporting system is being improved under
the project, to include operational data on locations and numbers of population
served, services delivered, consumption of drugs and supplies and disease
incidence rates.  Simplified collection forms to be filled monthly by each
health unit, would be processed first at the markaz level (whenever possible),
then at the mudiryat level and aggregated at the governorate level. To assist
the General Directorate for Planning and Statistics in implementing the new
reporting system, overall analysis, and dissemination of feedback information,
the project would provide for consultant services in statistics and
epidemiology, and one two-months fellowship for overseas training in the same
field.
3.33      Regional Directorates of Public Health Services.  Additional staff
would be assigned in Lahej, Abyan, Seyun and Al Mukalla to strengthen MOPH's
regional structure. Each team would consist of a public health specialist, a
mid-level technician, and one support paramedical. In addition, four expe-
rienced construction supervisors would be added to MOPH's payroll to supple-
ment, in more remote areas, the normal supervision carried out by the Ministry
of Construction. The four regional training and supervision teams included in
the project are also intended to strengthen the regional Directorates.  The
salaries of the twelve additional regional staff, and operating costs of the
four TSTs are included in the project (see annex 4, page 14); the salaries of
the four construction supervisors are part of the civil works component.



- 28 -
3.34      Infrastructure.  Finally, the Project would include funds for upgrad-
ing the offices of the PIU, the Directorate for Health Education and the three
Regional Directorates. These offices would also be allocated additional
furniture and equipment. Three vehicles would be provided to the PIU, one to
the HE Directorate, and eight to the Regional Directorates.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. - Project Costs
4.01      The total cost of the proposed four-year Project, to be completed by
September 30, 1987, is estimated at US$10.4 million equivalent. Base costs as
of April 1, 1983 are calculated at US$9.1 million and contingencies at more
than US$1.3 million. Overall, physical contingencies are calculated at US$0.5
million and price contingencies at US$0.9 million. Import duties, taxes and
other levies do not apply to development projects in PDRY. The foreign
exchange component (including contingencies) is estimated at US$5.2 million,
i.e. 50% of total project costs. The development of basic health services
would absorb about 75% of base costs, and manpower development 7%; about 13%
would be allocated to strengthening MOPH and about 3% to health education. Two
project preparation advances are included in project costs and are equivalent
to US$266,000 or about 2% of base costs. Civil works amount to US$5.2 million,
i.e., about 58% of base costs; furniture, equipment and vehicles to US$1
million (11%); about 6% of base costs are allocated to technical assistance and
fellowships and 1% to the production of IEC materials. Incremental recurrent
expenditure that would be generated by project implementation over the
four-year period in terms of additional salaries, training, supervision, drugs
and supplies are estimated at US$1.9 million or 21% of base costs. Detailed
project costs are shown in Annex 4, and are summarized by component in the
following table:



- 29 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
Yemeni Dinars (Thousands)            US Dollars (Thousands)   % of Foreign         2 of
Component                                 Local    Foreign   Total            Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange       Base Cost
A. Development of Basic Health Services
1) Civil Works                            955.5      801.6   1757.1          2769.5   2323.5   5093.0           46            56.2
2) Furniture and Equipment                 27.8      250.1    277.9            80.6    724.9    805.5           90             8.9
3) Incremental Recurrent Costs             86.1      205.0    291.1           249.6    594.2    843.8           70             9.3
Subtotal                 1069.4    1256.7   2326.1           3099.7   3642.6   6742.3          54             74.4
B. Manpower Development
1) Fellowships                              -          1.4       1.4            -         4.1       4.1        100             -
2) Incremental Recurrent Costs            210.6        -       210.6          610.4       -       610.4          -             6.8
Subtotal                  210.6        1.4    212.0           610.4      4.1    614.5            1             6.8
C. Health Education
1) Furniture and Equipment                  1.3       11.7      13.0            3.8      33.9      37.7         90             0.4
2) Vehicles                                 1.2       11.0      12.2            3.5      31.9      35.4         90             0.4
3) Consultants                              1.7        7.0       8.7            5.0      20.2      25.2         80             0.3
4) Fellowships                              -          3.5       3.5            -        10.1      10.1        100             0.1
5) Materials                                5.0       34.9      39.9           14.5    101.2    115.7           87             1.3
Subtotal                    9.2       68.1     77.3            26.8    197.3    224.1          88              2.5
D. Strengthening MOPE
1) Civil Works                             25.6       21.3     46.9            74.2      61.7    135.9          46             1.5
2) Furniture and Equipment                  2.2       19.8      Z2.0            6.4      Sl.b      b4.0         90             0.7
3) Vehicles                                 3.1       28.1      31.2            9.0      81.4      90.4         90             1.(
4) Consultants                             S2.2      104.4    156.6           151.3    302.6    453.9           6/             5.0
5) Fellowships                              -          7.7       7.7            -        22.3     22.3         100             0.3
6) Incremental Recurrent Costs            120.3       32.4    152.7           348.6      94.0    442.6          21             4.9
Subtotal                  203.4      213.7    417.1           589.5    619.6   1209.1          52             13.4
E. Project Preparation Facility               44.4       47.3      91.7          128.8    137.0    265.8           52             2.9
TOTAL BASE COST 11                       1537.0    158/.2   3124.2           4455.2   4b00.6   9055.8           51             100
Physical Contingencies                     71.4       88.6    160.0           207.0    256.8    463.8           55             5.1
Price Contingencies                       181.8      123.0    304.7           526.8    356.4    883.3           40             9.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1790.2    1798.8   3589.0           5189.0   5213.8  10402.9           50           114.9
1/ Base cost as of April 1, 1983.
April 27, 1983



- 30 -
4.02      Basis of cost estimates.  The costs of civil works are derived from
current contracts for similar types of construction in different locations of
the Project area. Design and supervision of civil works is customarily done by ,
Ministry of Construction and fees for such services have been included in the
cost. Furniture and equipment costs are based on CIF unit prices adjusted to
include local transportation and installation; costs of vehicles are based on
CIF prices.  Costs of the production of IEC-health education materials reflect
local and international costs as applicable. In line with recent experience in
PDRY and current international rates, the base cost for expatriate consultant
services is estimated at US$8,400 per month, on the average; this figure is
based on an average daily fee of US$185 and a daily subsistence allowance of
US$100, and includes international travel but not internal travel.  Overseas
training fellowships are based on an average monthly cost of US$2,000,
including international travel.
4.03      Contingency allowance.  Physical contingencies are estimated at 10%
for new construction, and 5% for furniture, equipment, vehicles and
audio-visual materials; overall, they represent US$0.5 million, i.e., 5.1% of
baseline costs or 4.5% of total costs. Price contingencies from 1984 to 1987
are calculated as follows: (a) civil works, local costs: 15%, 14%, 13% and
13%; (b) other local costs: 7.5%, 7.5%, 6% and 6%; (c) foreign costs: 7.5%,
7%, 6% and 6%. Total price contingencies add up to US$0.9 million, i.e.,
9.8% of baseline costs or 9.3% of baseline costs and physical contingencies.
Expected annual increases in international prices are consistent with the Bank
Guidelines dated March 1982.
4.04      Foreign exchange component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$5.2 million, or 50% of total project costs.  It is based on the
expectation that all civil works contracts will be awarded to local firms and
that all timber, steel, cement, furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials
will be imported. The resulting foreign exchange components for the different
categories of expenditure would then be as follows: (a) civil works 45%; (b)
furniture, equipment, vehicles, audio-visual materials, drugs, and incremental
local transportation costs: 90%; (c) technical assistance 80%; (d) fellowships
100%; (e) salaries for additional staff, subsistence allocations and local
training costs: 0%.
B. - Project Financing
4.05      Financial Feasibility.  Averaging US$2.6 million per year, the in-
vestment cost of the project is modest when compared with overall Government
investments which amounted to US$304.8 million in 1981 and US$512.1 million in
1982 (revised estimates). On the same basis, average annual project costs
would represent 0.5% of the country's GDP, assuming it remains at its 1980
level of US$540 million. Incremental recurrent expenditure generated by
project implementation have been estimated at US$1.9 million, growing from
US$263,000 on the first year to US$566,000 on the fourth and last year. The
last year's figure of US$566,000 represents 2.4% of MOPH's 1981 recurrent bud-
get (US$23.4 million), and 6.4% of current health expenditure in the three gov-
ernorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt (US$8.9 million) as shown in table 8.
4.06      On these bases, the project is affordable for the Government and
would not strain its limited resources, even when additional provisions are
made for maintenance of health buildings and equipment which now receives only



- 31 -
1% of MOPH's current allocations. Fiscal replicability of project standards to
the rest of the country would also be possible at a later stage. The project
would cover almost 68% of PDRY's population; the development of PHC in Aden
(first Governorate) with about 20% of the population and already above-average
health services would not require extensive investments; the extension of PHC
to the Fourth and Sixth Governorates, with about 12% of the country's
population, would nevertheless require higher per capita investment and
operating costs, in view of their insufficient health infrastructure and low
population densities. To ensure proper maintenance of PHC buildings and
equipment, about YD214,000 would be needed every year, i.e., about 5% of
project investments for civil works, equipment and furniture. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, starting in 1984, MOPH's budget would
include an adequate provision for maintenance of project buildings and
equipment.
4.07      Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of US$7.6 million would finance
73% of total project costs. The balance, amounting to US$2.8 million, would be
financed by the Government (US$1.8 million), WHO (US$0.6 million) and UNICEF
(US$0.4 million). The Government is continuing to seek about US$7 million of
cofinancing to complete the financing of the three regional medical stores and
the three regional paramedical schools (see para. 3.07).
4.08      The Government would establish and maintain a 90-day, US$225,000
revolving fund to finance advance payments to local contractors, payments for
consultant services, for overseas and local training, and for drugs financed
under the IDA Credit. The opening of the revolving fund on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                   Gov't    IDA       Cofinancing    Total
1.  Civil Works                1.4     4.7           -           6.1
2.  Furniture, Equipment,      -       0.5          0.6          1.1
Vehicles
3.  Technical Assistance       -       0.6           -           0.6
and Fellowships
4.  Health Education           -       0.1                       0.1
Materials
5.  PPF                        -       0.3           -           0.3
6.  Incremental Recurrent    0.4       1.4          0.4          2.2
Costs (drugs, training)
TOTAL                   1.8      7.6          1.0         10.4



- 32 -
C. Procurement
4.09      All buildings to be constructed in the project are small in size and
scattered over isolated rural areas; it is unlikely that such small buildings
would be of interest to foreign contractors. Consequently, contracts for civil
works amounting to US$4.7 million including physical and price contingencies
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) following the
Government's procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. These procedures will
permit the grouping of contracts and the participation of foreign contractors.
Upgrading and repairs of existing facilities would be executed by force
account, not to exceed US$50,000 in Aden, US$0.5 million in Lahej, US$0.3
million in Abyan and US$0.8 million in Hadramawt, including contingencies.
Force account procedures would also be used for the construction of isolated
health units, when no satisfactory bids have been received or when bidding
operations were unsuccessful in the recent past; overall, civil works for new
health units under force account, in each governorate, will not exceed
US$ZU0,000 equivalent, including contingencies. Standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Association have been developed for each type of construction
and, after the first use, would not require IDA's prior review before inviting
bids. Bidding documents have been prepared in Arabic with English translation
of the Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders, and General Conditions to
assist IDA's review.
4.10      Furniture, equipment and vehicle items (amounting to US$1.3 million,
including contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. About 70% of furniture and equipment for
health units ($485,000) are expected to be procured through UNICEFTs Packing
and Assembly Center in Copenhagen (UNIPAC), which is satisfactory to the
Association and would result in savings of up to 30% on the cost of purchased
goods. All other contracts in excess of US$100,000 would be awarded in
accordance with the Association's Guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of
items estimated to cost less than US$100,000, or items of a specialized nature
for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under normal Government
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA and would include, to the extent
possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers in elegible
countries; the total value of furniture and equipment so procured would not
exceed US$250,000 equivalent including contingencies. In the event of local
bids for furniture and equipment being received under ICB, the local
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference in comparison with
foreign bids, equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to
competing imports, or 15% of the CIF price, whichever is lower. Detailed lists
and specifications of furniture, equipment and vehicles to be financed under
the project would be reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations.
4.11      The Project Implementation Unit would be responsible for scheduling
all project procurement and conducting bidding operations for furniture,
equipment and vehicles under the supervision of the Central Tender Board.
Procurement and bidding operations for civil works would be conducted by the
Ministry of Construction also responsible for supervision of all public
construction in PDRY. Draft tender and contract documents for all furniture,
equipment, vehicles and civil works would be reviewed and approved by IDA;
IDA's approval of tender evaluation documents would be required prior to the
award of all contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles under ICB and for
all civil works contracts. IDA reimbursement for all other contracts would be



- 33 -
contingent upon its approval of tender documents subsequent to contract awards.
4.12      Assurances were received during negotiations that in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, the recruitment of short-term
technical advisors would be contingent upon IDA's approval of their
qualification, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.13      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:  70% of all civil works;
100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 70%
of local expenditure for locally produced items for furriture, equipment,
materials and vehicles for the PIU (Central and Regional), the 55 new health
units, and the health education component; 100% of foreign expenditure on
technical assistance and overseas fellowships; 100% of expenditure for drugs
for new health units and health guides; and 100% of in-service training for
health assistants, training of health guides and operating costs of the
Training and Supervision Teams. Included in the Credit would be the repayment
of the PPF advance (US$266,000). The closing date of the project is June 30,
1988; the disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 6, and is derived from
the country's disbursement profile in the absence of other projects in the
health sector.
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
4.14      The Project Implementation Unit would maintain accurate and up-to-
date records of project accounts and would employ for this purpose a full-time
qualified accountant. These accounts would be audited by the Central Board of
Auditing (CBA), thereto assigned by law, within six months of the end of each
financial year. CBA's performance has not been very satisfactory in the past,
but IDA has initiated a series of consultations to help enable CBA to carry out
the required audits in accordance with a timetable agreed by the Government and
IDA. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that copies of the
auditor's report and the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. The PIU would prepare each semester
a financial report to be submitted to IDA, and would make available to IDA
supervision missions all records of expenditures for which withdrawals were
requested from the Credit Account for the purpose of works carried by force
account for one year after the Credit closing date.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Implementation
5.01      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established in Aden to
ensure proper project implementation and at the same time strengthen MOPH's
overall management capacity. The PIU would not be an independent body but an
integral part of the Ministry (see Chart 3). As such, it would be expected to
play a catalytic role in transferring experience gained through the execution



- 34 
of the project, by liaising among all services involved.  The PIU would:  (a)
coordinate and supervise al'} project activities3 and ensure timely decisions;
(b) take necessary steps for the recr-:it ment of consultants and selection of
fellowships candidates; (c) carry out procurement and arrange for disburse-
ments; (d) maintain project accounts: (e) monitor project implementation and
preoare semi-annual progress reports; and (f) liaise with IDA and, more gene-
rally, ensure adherence to all Credit Agreement provisions. The PIU would be
headed by the Director General for Planning and Statistics and consist of the
Project Coordinator (appointed since July 1981), a qualified accountant, two
technical staff and two support personnel. The operating costs of the PIU
during the four-year implementation peri od are included in the project and
estimated at about US$70,00  for salaries and US$74,000 for internal travel,
subsistence allowances and office supplies. The PIU would be assisted by the
MOPH engineer. This position is presently filled by an expatriate financed by
UNICEF, and assurances were obtained during negotiations that, should this
postion become vacant, MOPH would recruit a qualified architect or engineer to
assume his responsibilities to the PIU. Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that the PIU would be established with adequate powers and fully
staffed by October 19 1983, and that it would operate through the closing date
of the project. The establishment of the PIU by the Government, under terms of
reference and with an organization acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
5.02      At the regional level, project implementation would be facilitated by
four teams consisting of one professional staff, a mid-level technician and a
support person, each in Lahej, Abyan, Seyun and Mukalla. Salaries for the
twelve additional staff over four years were estimated at US$136,000 and
included in the project.  The project would include upgrading and repairs, as
well as additional equipment and furniture, for the PIU offices in Aden and the
regiona'l offices.  It would also provide for three vehicles for the PIU and two
vehicles for each office in Lahej, Abyan, Seyun and Mukalla.
5.03      PHC Services.  Under the new organizational structure (see Charts 2
and 3), the Central PHC Council would provide overall guidance for the
development of PHC, the integration of health services, the organization of
training activities, and progress monitoring and feedback. The Program
Development and Evaluation Unit (PDE) in MOPH would be responsible for detailed
programming of all PHC activities to be carried out by the General Directorate
for PHC and the regional directorates; it would also conduct annual evaluations
of the program and specific studies and surveys.  The General Directorate for
PHC would be responsible for coordinating inputs and supervising service
delivery. The General Directorate for Planning and Statistics would be
responsible for setting up a revised health monitoring system (see para. 5.08),
centralizing and analyzing statistical reports, and circulating feedback
information. Monitoring of drug utilization, and revisions of drug
allocations, would be the joint responsibility of the Director General for PHC
and the Assistant-Deputy Minister for Pharmaceutical Affairs. Implementation
schedules were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the staff of the PDE, would be appointed
before October  1, 1983.
5.04      Training.  Adaptation of revised curricula and preparation of
training modules and materials will be finalized by the Training and
Supervision Unit (TSU), assisted by IHMD. The TSU would carry the general



- 35 -
responsibility for programming and supervising the training component.
Training would be carried out by the four regional Training and Supervision
Teams, which would prepare detailed regional programs and corresponding
training schedules. The overall training program, implementation procedures
and schedules were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. Assurances
were also obtained during negotiations that the TSTJ would be adequately staffed
by October 1, 1983.
5.05      Health Education.  The Health Education Directorate would be respon-
sible for the implementation of the IEC component, i.e. the preparation of the
HE program, the production and dissemination of audio-visual materials,
and the supervision of field activities. The HE Directorate would also assist
the PIU in negotiating the contract for the local production of the eight films
on basic health themes and the procurement of the HE equipment and materials.
Implementation at the regional level would be carried out by three HE Officers
assigned to the three governorates. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the HE Directorate would be adequately staffed, and that the
two needed HE Officers would be appointed in Lahej and Abyan, by October 1,
1983.
5.06      Civil Works.  Suitable sites for all new buildings on Government-
owned land have already been allocated to the MOPH. Ulnder an agreement with
MOPH, the Ministry of Construction (MOC) has prepared preliminary drawings for
all facilities to be built under the project. Final drawings with specifica-
tions would be completed by May 31, 1983. The MOC is responsible for all
Government civil works and for their supervision and final reception. MOC
services for architectural designs were financed under the PPF and fees for
future supervision have already been agreed upon and included in project
costs. However, to supplement MCC's limited manpower resources and assist in
conducting regular supervision of construction sites in remote rural areas, the
project would also include four full-time supervisors in MOPH to be based in
Lahej, Abyan, Seyun and Mukalla; salaries for the 4 supervisors over the
four-year period were estimated at US$29,000 and included in the project. The
standard tender documents for new constructions were reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations.
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.07      The project monitoring and evaluation function would come under the
overall responsibility of the PIU, which would ensure timely collection of
information needed for the preparation of semi-annual progress reports.
Progress in civil works, and procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies
would be measured against quarterly targets derived from implementation
schedules. Progress in the delivery of primary health services would be
monitored by the General Directorate for PHC, on the basis of regional
quarterly reports and regular field supervision.
5.08      The statistics and reporting system introduced by the General
Directorate for Planning and Statistics through the project would develop the
benchmark data needed to test epidemiological assumptions and build-up a
baseline health profile: this would replace area- and disease-specific surveys
which would not be feasible because of financial and manpower constraints.
Once the system is operational, it would provide the basis for regular



- 36 -
mon4toring and evaluation of the population's health status.  Monitoring would
be based on:
(a) activity (input) indicators such as the number of health units
supervised; HGs or TBAs trained; health personnel undergoing
reorientation; and number and type of personnel performing
services;
(b) coverage and performance (output) indicators, i.e. number of
patients, total and new in health units; cases treated for each
of the ten priority diseases; immunization dosage given;
prenatal and postnatal visits; deliveries monitored by the PHC
system; (new) family planning acceptors; house visits, and
village inspections by health unit staff and outreach agents;
sanitation interventions; population covered by the PHC complex,
and percentage to total estimated population: and
(c) impact (outcome) indicators, i.e. deaths by diarrhea,
measles complications, marasmus and kwashiorkor; deaths by
complications of pregnancy, delivery and puerperium; deaths of
infants; and deaths of children under five.
5309      The General Directorate for PHC would ensure that birthweight and
growth charts are properly recorded and analysed at the regional level; it
would also conduct small sample surveys to supplement impact indicators with
data on infant and maternal mortality in the three governorates.  The General
Directorate for Planning and Statistics would be responsible for collecting and
analysing information on operating costs and drug consumption at the peripheral
level. The project would include about USS75,000 to finance specific studies
and applied research in PHC; the nature, scope and cost of each survey or study
would be based on the information collected through the statistics and
reporting system, and would be agreed upon during IDA supervision missions.
5410      As head of the PIU, the Director General for Planning and Statistics
would conduct a mrid-term evaluation of the project, with the assistance of the
General Director for PHC.  The mid-term review would cover project components
as well as the functioning of the PHC delivery system in the three
governorates; special emphasis would be put on morbidity and mortality patterns
in the ten priority areas for intervention. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) the mid-term evaluation would be conducted under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association, and submitted by December 31,
1985; and (b) remedial action, satisfactory to the Government and the
Association, would be taken accordingly.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6C01      The project's ultimate benefit and primary justification is the
improvement of health conditions in the three governorates of Lahej, Abyan and
Hadramawt with a total population of 1,5 million (i.e. 68% of the country's
population), which includes about 80% of all Yemenis living in rural areas.
Increased and improved coverage of PHC services would benefit about 1.3 million



- 37 -
persons. The development of preventive activities through immunization,
community health education and family planning, and basic curative treatment
for major diseases, would reduce substantially morbidity and mortality rates.
Because of present low health standards, significant gains can be expected and,
although precise targets cannot be set at this stage, estimates based on
experience gained in other countries show that in the three governorates, by
project completion:
-immunization against measles would be increased from 5% to 30%, and
against whooping cough, tetanus and diphtheria from 10% to 25% of
the target group;
- malaria-related child mortality would be reduced from 3,000 to
about 1,200 cases per year; the diarrhea lethality rate would
decline from 36 to about 20 per thousand for infants, and from 15
to about 5 thousand for children; deaths from acute respiratory
infections would be reduced from 17 to about 10 per thousand live
births;
- maternal mortality would be expected to decline by more than one
half;
- the project would also have a positive impact on tuberculosis,
anemia, infectious eye diseases, but specific targets would be set
only once benchmark data become available;
- finally, through the training of community midwives and traditional
birth attendants, and the strengthening of basic health services,
the project would improve family planning services and support the
Government's population policy.
6.02      By improving the functioning of the health system, staff quality and
performance, drug supply and supporting community level activities, the project
would yield substantial benefits in terms of more efficient use of MOPH
resources, higher returns of public investments, and improved cost-
effectiveness of health services delivery.
6.03      Finally, this would be the first major development project to
be implemented by the MOPH. Through the operation of the PIU and specific
inputs designed for this purpose, it would play a major role in strengthening
the Ministry's management, planning, implementation and evaluation capability.
An essential contribution of the project would be the more productive use of
considerable technical assistance provided to the sector by bilateral and
multilateral organizations, by increasing emphasis on program implementation
and reorienting technical assistance toward operational activities. The
experience gained through the project would be essential for future expansion
of PHC to the rest of the country and adjusting to shifts in emphasis away from
a curative hospital-based system to a broader public health approach.
B. Risks
6.04      The Government is strongly committed to its national health program
and there is genuine support within the country for the PHC approach. The
project is designed to meet the expectations of the MOPH and of the political
leadership in the three governorates, which will assist in implementation.



- 38 -
Notable changes have taken place over the past two years as most senior MOPH
staff were actively involved in project preparation, together with regional
health authorities and the three Governors concerned who participated in the
decision-making process; the Ministry itself was reorganized to reflect the
shift in emphasis of health policy.  Increased staff motivation and performance
can be expected once the project becomes operational. However, the project
faces two risks.
6.05      First, the MOPH has no experience in implementing large projects and
its management capability has not yet been tested on these grounds. This is
recognized by the Minister who has appointed, as head of the PIU, his most
experienced senior administrator who would be backed by a senior medical
assistant with more than ten years of field experience as the head of the Third
Governorate. In addition, both WHO and UNDP have agreed to gradually reorient
their technical assistance, as vacancies occur, to include full-time advisors
in such areas as health planning, health education, statistics and
epidemiology (see para. 3.29). The project would also contribute to
strengthening MOPH's management capability through the services of short-term
consultants in key areas related to project implementation.
6.06      Second, the MOPH would have to rely on the Ministry of Construction
for all project matters related to civil works. This is the normal procedure
in PDRY, and the Ministry of Construction has the necessary experience to
conduct tender operations and supervise construction. However, there is a risk
that its already stretched supervision capacity would prove insufficient to
follow on a regular basis the construction of small buildings scattered in
rural areas. This risk is being offset by the recruitment of four site
supervisors, in MOPH's payroll, to assist the Ministry of Construction in
supervision outside the main cities.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement was reached during negotiations on project activities,
implementation schedules (para. 5.03) and training programs (para. 5.04).
7.02      The following were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations:
(a) detailed lists and specifications of furniture, equipment and
vehicles to be financed under the project (para. 4.10);
(b) standard tender documents for new constructions (para. 5.06).
7.03      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Project Implementation Unit would be established with
adequate powers and properly staffed as of October 1, 1983, and
that it would operate through the closing date of the project
(para. 5.01); should the position presently filled by an
expatriate become vacant, MOPH would recruit a qualified
architect or engineer to assume the same responsibilities to the
PIU (para. 5.01);
(b) appropriate measures would be taken to recruit every year,
beginning in 1983, at least 30 candidates from the three



- 39 -
governorates of Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt for training as
community midwives, and to assign them to their districts of
origin upon graduation (para. 3.19);
(c) an adequate number of qualified staff would be appointed before
October 1, 1983 to the Program Development and Evaluation Unit
(para. 5.03), the Training and Supervision Unit (para. 5.04) and
the Health Education Directorate (para. 5.05); and the two Health
Education Officers for Lahej and Abyan (para. 5.05);
(d) the recruitment of short-term advisors would be contingent upon
IDA's approval of their qualification, experience, terms of
reference, and conditions of employment (para. 4.12); and that
IDA's approval would be required on the selection of candidates
for overseas fellowships and the nature and location of their
training (para. 4.12);
(e) starting in 1984, MOPH's budget would include an adequate
provision for maintenance of project buildings and equipment
(para. 4.06);
(f) the accounts of the project would be audited and certified copies
of project accounts as well as an annual audit report would be
submitted to the Association no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 4.14); and
(g) a mid-term evaluation of the project would be conducted by the
PIU under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and
submitted by December 31, 1985; and remedial action, satisfactory
to the Government and the Association, would be taken
accordingly (para. 5.10).
7.04      The understandings between the Government and WHO and UNDP, on the
reorientation of their technical assistance to the MOPH were confirmed in
writing by the Government (para. 3.29).
7.05      The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit by the
Government under terms of reference and with an organization acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.01), and the opening of the revolving fund (para. 4.08) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of effectiveness.
7.06      Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDRs 7 million (US$7.6 million equivalent).



- 40 -                         Annex I
Page 1 of 7
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Epidemiological Background
1.        Epidemiological data are fragmented and incomplete.  Because the
organization of a comprehensive baseline survey exceeded MOPH's present
capability in terms of human and financial resources, it conducted in 1979 a
Health Planning Exercise, with the assistance of WHO, aimed at assessing major
health problems and identifying epidemiological priorities. Incidence,
prevalence and mortality rates for each major disease were estimated and an
assessment made of the impact of each disease in terms of deaths, biological
damage and temporary or permanent incapacity.  The population's perception of
priority diseases was then introduced as a further weighting factor and
socio-political concerns of public authorities were also taken into account.
Each disease, with its burden and assigned importance was finally reviewed,
taking into consideration the technical and practical means available for
control, as well as MOPH's physical, financial, and human resources. The
exercise resulted in the establishment of a list of 10 weighted priority health
problems summarized below. The following list of priorities is only a working
hypothesis; it will remain under constant scrutiny to be eventually revised in
the light of further information, and gradually quantified in subsequent years.
2.        Communicable Diseases of Childhood are ranked first, with measles and
whooping cough considered as the two major killers for this age group in PDRY.
Deaths from measles are due to underlying malnutrition, poor nursing care
by the family, and late referrals when complications occur, usually
bronchopneumonia or dehydration: case fatality is estimated at 10% with a total
of over 4,400 children dying from measles annually. The incidence of whooping
cough is lower, although it is a significant cause of child mortality because
of its impact on children's nutritional status. Other communicable diseases of
childhood are a matter of lesser concern: poliomyelitis is generally
contracted during early childhood and leaves relatively few cases of residual
paralysis; and, finally, the incidence of diphtheria is declining.
3.        Immunizations against tuberculosis, diphteria, whooping cough,
tetanus, poliomyelitis and measles are presently given in hospitals and health
centers; in addition, about 5,000 pregnant women are immunized annually against
tetanus. To extend its coverage, the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI)
operates 10 mobile units (of which three in Lahej, two in Abyan and two in
Hadramawt) in the more densely populated rural areas. The program is expanding
rapidly but immunizations still do not always follow standard schedules and
procedures; omissions and duplications are frequent, and the cold chain is
often uncertain. Having started late, immunization against measles, which is
the most urgently needed, is nevertheless the least developed. The EPI will
eventually include the more accessible and densely populated areas and reach
the district level. However, no dramatic increase in immunization coverage can
be expected until primary health care facilities are upgraded, properly
staffed, and their outreach capacity is developed.



- 41 -                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
4.        Malaria, the second priority, is a serious health hazard in PDRY and,
under prevailing environmental conditions, its control is technically
feasible.   According to some estimates, prevalence rate is 31% and about 5,000
children die every year from malaria; about two-thirds of the populaion
probably live in endemic areas; there is, however, little evidence to support
such high figures. The country is affected by the most malignant parasite
(P.Falciparum) mainly carried by two of the most effective vectors (A. Gambiae
and A. Sergenti). The overall epidemiological situation for malaria is
characterized by widespread hypo-endemic areas with seasonal transmission and
superimposed foci of meso- and hyper-endemicity. No single control strategy
can be applied to the entire country and MOPH will have to improve its present
capacity to carry out a variety of interventions: treatment of cases and
chemoprophylaxis to selected groups, spraying, larviciding, utilization of
biological control methods, and drainage, filling, and other engineering
methods. However before adopting an overall control strategy, the MOPH, with
WHO assistance, will carry out an epidemiological survey to establish the
different patterns of malaria transmission and decide on appropriate control
measures (stratification).
5.        As in most developing countries, diarrhea, the third priority, is the
major single cause of under-five mortality, responsible for 24% of all reported
infant deaths, and 17% of child mortality. It is also the most frequent motive
to seek care in health facilities (almost 25% of all new cases). Infant and
child diarrheas are caused by a variety of agents: shigellas, escherichia,
proteus, salmonella, and increasingly by adeno and rotaviruses.   Diarrhea is
aggravated by poor nutritional status, intestinal parasites, and incidence of
interculrrent diseases such as measles and whooping cough. At present there is
no systematic approach to the problem. Diarrheas are generally treated with
sulfonamides or antibiotics, antispasmodics and, occasionally, with intravenous
rehydration. Awareness of oral rehydration techniques does not go beyond major
centers; the pediatric hospital in Aden started in 1982 the first unit of oral
rehydration for demonstration and training purposes. UNICEF oral rehydration
packets were only recently supplied to rural health units. Until more is known
about the relative importance of contributing factors such as poor hygiene,
inadequate water supply, early weaning, preparation of infant formulas with
contaminated water, poor housing conditions, or about awareness of the problem
and mothers' attitudes toward diarrhea, MOPH will rely mainly on the extension
of the PHC network and its outreach capacity to control gradually
diarrhea-related infant mortality.
6.        Pneumonia, the fourth priority, is ranked as the third leading cause
of infant mortality and second for child mortality; about 2,300 children die
annually of acute respiratory infections. In spite of this high priority,
interventions are at present uncoordinated and rather limited. It is expected
that in 1983 a new program of interventions will be developed through
international research and consultation under WHO sponsorship, and PDRY could
be one of the first countries to implement a new systematic program.
7.        Mortality by tuberculosis, the fifth priority, is in the order of 50
per 100,000 population, corresponding to 1,000 deaths per year. The prevalence
rate is estimated at 2.6%, which would mean 56,000 cases of tuberculosis at any
given time. Some 60,000 children and adolescents are estimated to undergo
primo-infection each year and tuberculosis accounts for 7.7% of morbidity



- 42 -                           Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
between the ages of 5 to 14, and 5.3% for the 15-49 age group. Overcrowded
housing, malnutrition and early and frequent pregnancies are important
contributing factors. In addition to the TB hospital in Aden which directs the
national program, there are 20 small TB centers (including two in Lahej, two
in Abyan, and six in Hadramawt). The MOPH has designed a four-step strategy:
(1) BCG will be administered to all newborn in all health facilities, then to
all non-vaccinated school children; (2) treatment will be decentralized at the
district level and will be free of charge; (3) systematic case finding will be
applied to high-risk persons and groups; and (4) more emphasis on TB will be
included in the health education program. However, while tuberculosis is well
known to the population, the contagious aspects of the disease may have been
dramatlzed and a social stigma is now attached to it. For this reason,
increasing the number of treatment centers would have a limited impact, unless
health education succeeds in changing perception of the disease, and the health
system develops an outreach capacity through health guides to screen potential
cases and refer them to TB centers.
8.        Anemia, the sixth priority, is the third motive for consultation in
health facilities. Its major causes in PDRY are thought to be malaria,
intestinal parasites, protein, iron and folic acid deficiencies, and
sickle-cell formation. Anemia associated with malnutrition is responsible for
35% of all new cases reported by the health services. If diarrheas which are
also closely associated with malnutrition and anemia are added, this group of
pathology would represent as much as 58% of all new patients recorded annually
in the country. Anemia has not, so far, been addressed to by any specific
program and the MOPH expects that increased PHC coverage in rural areas will
significantly reduce prevalence rates. However, until the relative importance
of each cause is properly assessed, it will be difficult to design a
cost-effective intervention.
9.        Malnutrition is undoubtedly the most serious underlying health
problem in PDRY and ranks seventh in the MOPH priority list only because of the
recognized difficulty to undertake a significant intervention in nutrition at
the present time. Even the scattered information available indicates an
alarming situation. Nutritional deficiencies account for 2.8% of deaths
reported in hospitals, but are the second most frequent cause of morbidity in
hospitals. As a contributing factor, malnutrition is associated with four of
the most important causes of mortality in the 0-5 age group, i.e. diarrheas,
pneumonias, malaria and anemia. Specific nutritional deficiencies reported
include A and D vitamin deficiency, iron deficiency, as well as goiter due to
iodine deficiency in mountain areas. However, the present ignorance of the
many variables involved (food availability, nutrition awareness in both the
population and health personnel, access to health facilities, etc.)--as well as
the shortage of nutrition specialists have so far hindered the design of any
meaningful program.
10.       A nutrition study financed through the second IDA-financed Fisheries
Project is being carried out by the University of Goteborg. The pilot phase of
the study utilized weight, height, and other anthropometric measurements
supplemented by blood tests. The preliminary results, presented in November
1982, showed that 55% of infants ages 0-3 had signs of malnutrition, increasing
in both frequency and severity with age. The average weight at 2 months of age
conformed to the standard but dropped to 80% of the standard at age 12 months
and to 76% at age 33 months. Marasmus was found to be far more frequent (10%)



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
than kwashiokor (1.5%), indicating that overall caloric deficiency seems more
important than protein deficiency. Malnutrition may be even more serious
within the 3-7 age group. A broader sample from six villages in different
ecological areas and covering the 0-10 age group was to be surveyed at the end
of 1982.  A 1980 comparative study on the two Yemensl/ showed that total per
capita daily intake in PDRY was 1,897 calories (84% of normative requirements)
and 54 grams of protein (74%). Food represented about 58% of household
expenditure. Food is still rationed and all families are issued ration cards
allowing them to purchase basic food supplies at subsidized prices. Overall,
food imports amounted to about US$204 million in 1981, representing an average
of 30% of total imports in recent years, and equivalent to more than US$100 per
capita per year. In 1981, food imports consisted mainly of wheat (18%), sugar
(10%) and rice (9%), and a large allocation to tea and "others" (49%) making it
difficult to assess the rationality of their distribution. This large
dependence on food imports is partly justified by lack of arable land and water
supply, and there is little prospect for the country to reach a significant
level of food self-sufficiency. This explains the importance of World Food
Program assistance in PDRY: from its inception in 1969, it has totaled
US$112,8 million; for 1982 alone, including emergency aid to flood victims,
distribution of food products through nine development projects and two
emergency operations will amount to some US$12 million. Rural health
facilities presently participate in food programs through storage and
distribution of food supplements.
11.       Malnutrition is aggravated by a decline in breastfeeding.
The decline in breastfeeding is explained by increasing numbers of women in the
labor force, due to temporary migration of 200,000 adult males, economic
constraints forcing an increasing number of Yemeni women into a more active
role in society, and Government policies stimulating education and employment
for women as a means of promoting sex equality. As a result, young mothers
tend to limit the breastfeeding period and the proportion of breastfed infants
declines very rapidly after three months (40-50%) even in rural areas. In
spite of PDRY's shortage of foreign exchange, imports of infant formulas,
powdered milk and canned food are on the rise. Although the limitations
imposed on advertising and marketing have kept the problem under relative
control, inadequate preparation and storage of these convenience foods
aggravate childhood diseases, especially diarrhea, and adverse effects on
infant nutrition are apparent in the pilot survey mentioned above.
12.       Another adverse factor is the habit of khat2/ consumption.  Most
Yemenis of both sexes, including children, chew khat leaves, a shrub which
grows in the mountain areas. The leaves contain several psychotropic alkaloids
with euphoric and anorectic properties. This habit affects the nutritional
status of the population in many ways: by limiting the areas available for
foodcrop cultivation; creating insomnia and frequent withdrawal effects;
absorbing a significant proportion of the household budget (as much as 30-40t
for an unskilled worker) that would otherwise go to food expenditure. Most
importantly, khat has proved to have anorexiant effects on all users; moreover,
khat alcaloids are transmitted to breastfed infants, thus diminishing their
nutritive intake; and, finally, khat consumption diminishes milk secretion in
1/  "Food Security Policy Issues in the Yemen Sub-region", May 1980.  Joint
ECWA/FAO Agriculture Division. ECWA.
2/ Khat, a locally grown plant whose leaves are chewed as a stimulant.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
lactating mothers, further affecting infant nutrition. Although these facts
have been documented, most Yemenis--including scientists and medical
staff--disagree on the extent of harmful effects of khat on food production as
well as on the nutritional status of the population. However, a more detailed
assessment of the impact of this custom in PDRY still needs to be undertaken.
Khat chewing is tolerated by the Government because past attempts to eradicate
the habit resulted in serious political unrest. In the Aden area, it is only
authorized two days a week, but its purchase and consumption are not restricted
in the rest of the country. The Government actually relies on high prices to
limit consumption and also expects that incentives for foodcrops will gradually
reduce the cultivation of this shrub. Except through health education, the
MOPH has little influence on the problem which is deeply rooted in
socio-cultural habits. However, the very fact that the Government has banned
khat consumption five days per week is an implicit admission of its harmful
effects. Timid attempts to raise popular awareness have been made in the past
but there is undoubtedly a need for a more direct intervention through an
appropriate health education program.
13.       Prevalence of communicable eye diseases, the eighth priority, is
extremely high and estimated to be 22%. These constitute the third most
frequent motive for consultation (about 40,000 cases reported every year).
Trachoma represents about half the cases. Patterns observed in comparable
countries would rank as follows the causes of blindness: cataract and glaucoma,
trachoma, chronic conjunctivitis, accidents and congenital or perinatal
causes. Altogether, the importance of eye diseases has not been sufficiently
emphasized among health personnel. However, specific interventions are
difficult to plan before regional patterns - winds and sand particles,
illumination, quantity/quality of water available for personal hygiene etc.-
are identified. MOPH' s approach consists of expanding the "red eye strategy"
through treatment and prevention by periodic administration of antibiotic
ophthalmological ointment in all health facilities and schools; improving
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, including ophthalmic surgery for the
prevention of complications; and, at a later stage, including an
ophthalmological component in mobile teams' activities.
14.       Perinatal mortality (i.e. deaths occurring after the 28th week of
gestation and before the 28th day of life) has been identified as the ninth
priority area for intervention. Neonatal deaths (first 28 days of life) are
likely to represent 30% of infant mortality. Available data permits an
assessment of the magnitude of the problem, but not an identification of
contributing factors.  Until suitable areas for intervention are identified,
there is little that peripheral services can do, with respect to most causes of
neonatal deaths by congenital anomalies, asphyxia, immaturity, birth injuries,
tetanus, which would require units of obstetrical and perinatal care with
highly trained personnel obviously not available in peripheral areas.
improved prenatal and obstetric care.
15.       The burden and suffering stemming from complications of pregnancy and
delivery unquestionably justify the priority of this problem which should
probably rank higher than tenth. Moreover, maternal health has a particular
tactical importance as it is the entry point, and often the prerequisite, for
infant health, family health and family planning programs. Maternal mortality
has been estimated at 100 per 100,000 cases, but is more likely to be as high
as 500 per 100,000 cases.  Records in MCH and obstetrical/gynecological



- 45 -                          Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
services confirm high mortality due to all major recognized causes: septic
abortion, ectopic pregnancy, eclampsia, dystocias, hemorrhage, forceps
applications, cesarean sections, rupture of the uterus, postpartum septicemias,
gangrene and tetanus. Residual morbidity and incapacity is equally high, due
to urogenital lacerations leading to fistulas, secondary sterility and chronic
renal infections, which all severely reduce life expectancy, especially in
rural areas. Many factors explain this situation: geographical (topography,
dispersion of the population); socio-cultural (low educational level of rural
women, secrecy over childbirth, insufficient skill of traditional birth
attendants); biological (teenage pregnancies, poor health and nutritional
status); and public health (limited acceptability of male nurses for
obstetrical/gynecological care, insufficient outreach capacity, inadequate
referrals, and insufficient birth spacing and family planning). The relative
importance of these factors still has to be assessed but the list clearly shows
that maternal mortality should be tackled from different angles and that PHC is
only one element of an overall strategy. High priority obviously has to be
given to maternal health in MOPH's policy and programs.
16.       Schistosomiasis is not included in the above priority list but
deserves special mention because of its prevalence and potential danger. Its
transmission in PDRY shows similarities with malaria for the same reasons,
i.e. scarcity of water but favorable temperatures resulting in isolated foci
around small water collections such as puddles, wells and ponds. Both S.
Mansoni and S. Hematobium parasites, causing the intestinal and urinary forms
of the disease are present in the country. The spread of schistosomasis is
contained only by the scarcity of water points, and the low density and limited
mobility of the population. However, prevalence seems to be increasing slowly
and the extension of irrigated areas, together with increased population
mobility, could further expand the geographic distribution and severity of the
disease. Cases are presently grossly under-reported but frequent complications
within the adult population are a sign of high prevalence rates that must exist
among children and adolescents. No prevention or control programs for
schistosomiasis have been established so far; but treatment is being offered to
patients seeking care. The MOPH is, however, considering a range of
interventions: engineering, mollusciciding, biological control, periodic
single-dose treatment of egg shedders, and health education. With the
assistance of WHO, MOPH will undertake a geographic reconnaissance study
similar to, and possibly associated with, the malaria stratification.
Control strategies adapted to specific local conditions could then be
designed.
17.       Several limited studies have identified isolated indigenous cases of
"Sowda", a cutaneous form of onchocerciasis, as well as imported cases from the
Yemen Arab Republic and Ethiopia. However, endemic transmission has not been
demonstrated. Because of numerous ecological areas favorable to vector
reproduction, the country should be considered as a receptive area and the
disease included in a national epidemiological surveillance system. Little
mention is made of leprosy in official documents and statistics, although it is
known that the disease is endemic in the Arabian Peninsula, at prevalence rates
varying between 2 and 4 per thousand population. This would correspond to some
4-8 thousand cases in PDRY; of these only 20% would correspond to cases of
contagious lepromatous that maintain transmission of the disease. The
identification, diagnosis and treatment of such a small number of cases
scattered over the country is presently beyond the capacity of the primary



- 46-                           Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
health care network. The control of identified cases is now the responsibility
of district hospitals and the Mukalla Leprosarium, under the supervision of the
Tuberculosis Control Program.
18.       Typhoid, paratyphoid A and B, and other salmonellosis are endemic in
PDRY and, as only a small percentage of cases are diagnosed (5-107 for
typhoid), their continuous presence in yearly reports suggests that prevalence
rates are much higher than reported. The last outbreak was in 1976 in the
Hadramawt Governorate with 1,380 cases. Baciliary dysentery and amebiases also
represent a serious health hazard as an average of 8,000 cases are reported
annually. An important cholera outbreak started in Aden in July 1979, rapidly
spreading to Lahej and Abyan Governorates and remaining active in 1980. A
total of 2,673 cases and 65 deaths were reported. On that occasion, MOPH
reacted remarkably quickly and could contain the extension of the disease.
However, poor water supply and sanitary conditions make PDRY highly receptive
to subsequent outbreaks.



- 47 -                          ~~~~~~~Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
PHC Delivery Scheme
Diseases             Interventions                           Tasks                     Responsibility Level 1
Nationa
TBA  HG  HUI  HU2  HU3  HC &Regional
1.  COMMUNICABLE  -Health Education  .Correction of negative household
DISEASES OF                              management                              B    A
CHILDHOOD                               .Relay of messages to community -
organization of meetings                     A
.Coordination of school HE, and
Community HE                                     A    A    A    A        C
-Immunizations       .Routine immunization in fixed posts                    B    A    A       C
.Keeping records of under-fives at
village level                                A
.Identification of defaulters at
village level                                A
.Preparation and assistance to                A
immunizations campaigns
A   B    B    B     B 
-Treatment          .Symptomatic treatment of standard
cases
.1st level complications - anti-              B   A    A    A
biotics
.2nd level complications - secondary              A    A    A    A
care
A
2.  MALARIA        -Health Education  .Relay of messages to community                 A
-Chemoprophylaxis  .Routine distribution of chloroquine
to high-risk groups as warranted             A   A    A    A    C
.Selective distribution of malarial
preventives                                      B    B    B    A        C
-Treatment          .Presumptive treatment                         A A A          A
.Curative treatment of complications
- secondary care                                 A    k    A    A
-Vector Control    .Preparation and assistance to
vertical operations, spraying,
larviciding, filling, engineering                A    t    A             C
.Village operations, filling and
basic sanitation                             A   C    C    C             C
3.  DIARRHEA       -Health Education  .Relay of HE to community, orga-
nization of committees                  B    A   C    C    C             B
-Sanitation         .Protection of wells and surface
waters                                       B   B    3    A    A        C
.Construction of latrines in
selected locations                           B              A    A       C
-Control            .Notification and enquiries on
under-five deaths                            A   C    C    C    C
-Treatment          .Instruction to mothers in ORT           B    B   A    A    A
.Oral rehydration of standard cases   B           A    A    A    C        C
.IV rehydration, antibiotherapy and
reanimation of advanced cases                               A    A       C
4. ACUTE           -Health Education  .Relay of messages                              A   C    C    C             B
RESPIRATORY
INFECTIONS         -Control             .Notification of cases/deaths                 A
.Enquiries on under-five deaths               A   C    C    C    C
-Treatment          .Treatment of early signs of
complication                                     A    A    A
.Treatment of complications and
high-risk children, secondary care               A    A    A



fa2 of 2
- 48 -
Diseases              Intervsntions                Tasks                                 Reasonsibility Level 2
National
TbA HG HU1 HU2 HU3 HC SRegional
5.  TUBERCULOSIS  -Health Education  B-lay of messages                                 A                           C
-Immunization        .--Test in schools and ECG
compleentation                               I   B    B    B    A         C
-Control              Identification of suspects and
conLtacts                                    A
.Notifications of cases/deaths                A
-Treatment           Triage, diagnosis & indication of
treatments, samestral follow-up                             A             A
.Follow-up of standard treatments                 A    A    A
.Identification of defaulters                 A
6 & 7.  ANEMIA    -Nutrition             Stimulation of breastfeeding            B         A    A    A             B
& MALNUTRITION      Education            Identification of high-risk
under-fives                             B    A
Nutrition Rehabi-
litation Clinics   World Food Program                                 A    A    A
.under-five clinics for growth
monitoring                                        A    A    A
-Treatment of
Clinical Cases      standard cases                                B   A    A    A    C
.complications                                    B    B    B    A
.laboratory                                                  A    A
8.  EYE DISEASES  -Health Education   Relay of messages & materials for
-School Health Education                     A   C    C    C              B
-Community Health Education                  A                    B
-Prevention          Tetra-ointment application in
schools                              |       A
-Treatment          -Early treatment of red-eye syndrome               A    A    A
.Esrly treatment of ophtalmic
infections and injuries                          A    A    A    A         C
.Follow-up on chronic cases                   A   C    C    C
9 and 10.  PERI-  -Health Education   School health education                          A   C    C    C    B
NATAL MORTALITY                          School sex education                         B   B    B    B    B         C
.Community health education                   A   C    C    C             B
-Surveillance of    Normal pregnancy                          B        A    A    A    C
Pregnancy           Complicationa & high-risk
pregnancies                                      A    A    A    A
.Laboratory                                                  A    A
-Assistance
to delivery         Hygiene of confinement                  A    B
.Normal deliveries                      A         C    C    C    C
.Complications & high-risk
deliveries                                                                C
.Notification of infant and maternal
deaths                                       A
.Enquiries                               B    A   C    C    C    C        C
-Family planning    Family planning education                A         A    A    A    A        B
.Contraception: prescription and
follow-up                                              A    A    B        C
-Surveillance of
infants             Home visiting and monitoring of
high-risk infants                       A    C
.Under-one clinic with growth
monitoring                                             A    A    A
.Early in unisation                    _   L            A    A          C
/ Responsibility Sumary
A - Primary responsibility; B - Secondary responsibility; C - Technical back-up.
Outreach agents: Health Guide (HG); Traditional Birth Attendant (TBA); Health Educator (HE).
- act as liaison between the Health Services and the population.
- identify health problem  and cases, provide first-aid treatment or advice, relay meassags
of Health Education, stisulate the co_unity into taking action, refer and notify cases to
the BUs, carry out enquiries on infant and maternal deaths.
Health Units (HUs):
- primary level curative and preventive facilities.
- carry the bulk of most PHC interventions either with the cooperation of the outreach agents or with
back-up health centers and vertical programs.
- perforn limited training and supervision functions.
Haelth Centers (HCs):
- imediate back-up of the Health Units.
- provide clinical cars in only a small proportion of referred cases. They are the eleenat of
cbordination mnd back-up and provide training and supervision.



- 49 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                    ANM  3
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organlzaflon of the PHC DeINery Network
THEORETICAL
AVERAGE POPULATION
LEVEL/LOCATION                                             SERVED                        STAFFING
Community Health Worker
Hambts                                                            300                   Heatth Guide
Traditional Birth Attendant
About 3,000 (Health Unit 1)   1 Health Assistant
3,000 to 5,000 (Health Unit 2)  1 Medical Assistant
I4eailti                          ~~~~~~~I Community Midwite
Villages                                  n            5,000 to 8,000 (Health Unit 3)  1 Medical Asidstant
1 Heaith Assistant
1                                          1 Community Mkiwife
(1 Assistant Health Inspector)
Markaz - Larger Vilages                                          15,00                      Average
Mudiryat - Chief Town of Distict                                 75,000                     Averoge
Govemorate Capitals                                             400,000                     staff of 80
Central,
Aden                                 Specialized,
& Untmrslty
Hospltals
World Bank-24646



5   -                                         ANNEX  4
Page 1 of 14
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(YEMENI DINAR  '000)            (US$ '000)           X rf
---------------------- ------------------------ Foreign  X of Total
Local  Foreisn Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange Base Costs
A. DEVELOPMENT OF
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES            1,069.4 1,256.7 2,326.1 34099.7 3.642,7  6742.4          54.0        74.5
B. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT               210.6      1.4   212.0   610.4       4.1    614.5       0.7         6.8
C. HEALTH EDUCATION                     9.2    68.1    77.3    26.8   197.3    224.1         88.0         2.5
D. STRENGTHENING MOPH                 203.4   213,7   417.1   589,5   619.6  1,209.0         51.2        13.4
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY        44.5    47.3    91.7   128.9   137.0    265.9         51.5         2.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1537.0 1,587,2 3,124,3 4,455.2 4.600,6  9,055.8          50.8       100.0
Physical Contingencies                71.4    88,6   160.0   207.0   256.8    463.8         55.4         5.1
Price Contingencies                  181.8   123.0   304.7   526.8   356.4    883.3         40.4         9.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1,790.2 li798.8 3,589.0 5,189.0 5,213.8 100402.9         50.1       114.9
April 28, 1983 08:02
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cosporsent b, Time
(YEMENI DINAR '000)
Total
Base Costs              ------------------
--------------------------------- YEMENI
82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87   DINAR  (US$ '000)
A. DEVELOPMENT OF
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES                - 1,409.2  602 1 189.0 125.6 2,326.1    6,742.4
Bo MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                 -    32.1   81.0   55.5   43,4   212-0          614.5
C. HEALTH EDUCATION                     -    4952   13.8   13.5    0.8    77.3          224.1
D. STRENGTHENINO MOFH                   -   201,8  106o1   65.4   43.8   417,1    1,209.0
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY   ?917           -      -       -      -    51.7        265,9
Total BASELINE COSTS                   91.7 1,692.2  803.1  323.4  213.8 3,124,3    9,055.8
Physical Contingencies                 -   103.2   39.9   12.3    4.6   160l         463,8
Price Contingencies                    -    74.2  103.3   72.1   55,2   304,7          883.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                    91.7 1,869.6  946.3  407.9  273.5  -,585.0   10,402`9
Foreigr; Excharnge                  47.3 1,026.7  416.0  183.8  124.9 1,7I82,   5,213.8
April 28! 1983  0802.



- 51 -
PEOPLE'S DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                     AN=   4
HEALTH DEVELOPIENT PROJECT                                                          Page  2 of 14
Sunarv Account b  FProject Cosponent
(YEMENI DINAR '000)
Physical
DEVELOPMENT OF                                           PROJECT             Contingencies
BASIC HEALTH   MANPOWER    HEALTH   STRENGTHENING PREPARATION               -------------
SERVICES    DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION        MOPH        FACILTY   Total        x    Abount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                              -            -          -           45.4            -    45.4   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      -            -          -           45.4            -    45.4   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                    -            -         -           21.3             -    21.3   0.0      0.0
2. HEALTH FACILITIES
UPGRADING AND REPAIRS                          417.0             -         -               -            -   417.0   0-0      0.0
NEW CONSTRUCTION                             19288.6             -         -               -            - 1,288.6  10.0   128.9
Sub-Total HEALTH FACILITIES                     1.705.6             -          -              -            - 1.7G5.6   7.6   128.9
Physical Contingencies                         128.9             -          -              -            -   128.9   0.0      0.0
Price Continsencies                            150.8             -         -               -            -   150,8   9.1    13.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               1,985.3             -          -              -            - 1,985.3   7.2   142.6
Foreign Exchange                               908.2             -          -              -            -   908.2   7.1    64.7
3. SUPERVISION                                     51.5             -          -            1.5            -    53.0   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                              2.0             -          -            0.0            -     2.0   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  53.5             -          -            1.6            -    55.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-TDtal CIVIL WORKS                               1,757.1            -          -           46.9            - 1,804.0   7.1   128.9
Physical Contingencies                             128,9            -          -              -            -   128.9   C.G       0.0
Price Contingencies                               152.8             -          -            0.0            -   152.8   9.0    13,7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   2,038.7            -          -           46.9            - 2,085.6   6.8   142.6
Foreign Exchange                                  908.2             -          -           '1.l            -   929.5   7.0    64.7
D, FURNITURE
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                 -            -          -            9.2            -     9.2   5.0       G.5
HEALTH FACILITIES                                 142.5             -          -              -            -   142.5   5.0       7.1
HEALTH EDUCATION                                       -            -       4.2               -            -     4.2   5.0       C.2
Sub-Total FURNITURE                                   142.5            -        4.2            9.2            -   155.8   5.0       7.8
Physical Contingencies                               7.1            -       0.2             O.5            -      ,.8   0.0      0.O
Price Contingencies                                  6.8            -       0.2             0.4            -     7.3   4.8       0.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     156.4            -        4.6           10.0            -   170.9   4.8       8.1
Foreign Exchange                                  140.7             -        4.1            9.0            -   153.8   4.8       7.3
C. EQUIPMENT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                 -            -          -           12.9            -    12.9   5.0       0.6
HEALTH FACILITIES                                 135.4             -          -              -            -   135.4   5.0       6.8
HEALTH EDUCATION                                       -            -        8.8              -            -     8.8   5.0       0.4
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                                   135.4            -        8.8           12.9            -   157.1   5.0       7.9
Physical Contingencies                               6.8            -       0.4             0.6            -     7 .9   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                                  5.7            -        0.4            0.5            -     6.6   4.8       0.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     147.8            -        9.6           14.1            -   171.5   4.8       8.2
Foreis.Exchanse                                   133.1             -       8.6            12.7            -   154.4   4.8       7,4
D. VEHICLES
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                 -            -          -           31.2            -    31,2   5.0       1.6
HEALTH EDUCATION                                       -            -      12.2               -            -    12.2   5.0       0.6
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                        -            -       12.2           31.2            -    43.4   5.0       2.2
Physical Contirtgercies                                -            -        0.6            1.6            -     2.2   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                    -            -       0.5             1.2                  l.7   4.8       0."
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         -            -       13.3           34.0            -    47.3   4.8       *.
Foreign Exchanige                                      -            -       12.0           30.6            -    42,6   4.8       2.0    CONTINUED  . . .



- 52 -
PEOPLE'S DE AOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                               4
hEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    3 of 14
... CONTINUED                                Sumar  Account by Project Component                                                         Pge
(YEMENI DINAR '000)
Phssical
DEVELOPMENT OF                                           PROJECT             Contingencies
*       BASIC HEALTH   MANPOWER    HEALTH   STRENGTHENING PREPARATION               -------------
SERVICES    DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION        MOPH        FACILITY   Total       Z    Amount
i. 1iiii            Tu                                    -                     8.7          156.6            -   165.3   0.0       0.0
Price Continencies                                     -            -        0.3           15.8            -    16.1   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCUDINB CONTINGENCIES                          -            -        9.0          172.4            -   181.4   0.0       0.0
Foruign Exchange                                       -            -       7.2           115.4            -   122.6   0.0       0.0
F. OVERSEAS TRAINING                                      -          1.4        3.5            7.7            -    12.6   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                    -          0.2        0.1            1.1            -      1.5   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         -          1.6        3.6            8.8            -    14.1   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                                       -          1.6       3.6             8.8            -    14.1   0.0       0.0
G. PRODUCTION OF HEALTH
EDUCATION MATERIALS                                    -            -      39.9               -            -    39.9   4.9       1.9
Physical Contingencies                                 -            -        1,9              -            -      1.9   0.0     0,0
Price Contingencies                                    -            -       5.0               -            -     5.0   4.7      0.2
_- - - --  - -    -- - - - -   -- - - -   -- -- - -- -   -- - - - -   -- - -   -- - __ _-_--__-__-- _ _ 
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         -            -      46.9               -            -    46.9   4.6       2.2
Foreign Exchante                                       -            -      41.1               -            -    41.1   4.8      2.0
H. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                           -            -          -              -         91.7    91.7   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         -            -                         -         91.7    91.7   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchane                                        -            -          -              -        47.3    47.3   0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 2i034.9          1.4       77.3          264.4         91.7 2,469.8   6.0   148.6
Physical Contingencies                               142.8             -        3.2            2.7            -   148.6   0.0    00
Price Contingncies                                    165.3          0.2        6.5           19.1            -   191.1   7.7    14.7
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         2t342.9           1.6       87.0          286.2         91.7 2,809.4   5.8   163,3
Foreign Exchange                                   1,182.0           1.6       76.7          197.8         47.3 1,505.4   5.5    83.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL EXPENDITURES                            63.4             -          -          152.7            -   216.0   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                               12.6             -         -           23.2             -    35.8   0.0    00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    75.9             -          -          175.9            -   251.8   0.0      0.0
Eoxin  pxFhanse                                     -            -          -           37.3             -    37.3   0,0      0.0
D. TRAINING OPERATING COSTS                              -       210.6           -              -            -   210.6   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                                   -        32.6          -               -            -    32.6   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        -       243.2          -               -            -   243.2   0.0      0.0
C. DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES                       227.9             -          -              -            -   227.9   5.0    11.4
Physical Contingencies                            11.4            -          -              -             -    11.4   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                               45.3            -          -              -             -    45.3   4.8      2,2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                   284.6                        -                           -   284.6   4.8    13.6
Foreign Exchange                                 256.1            -          -               -            -   256.1   4.8    12.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    291.2        210.6          -          152.7            -   654.5   1.7    11,4
Physical Contingencies                                 11.4            -          -              -            -    11.4   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                   57.9          32.6          -           23.2            -   113.7   1.9      2.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                            360.5        243.2          -          175.9            -   779.5   1.7    13.6
Foreign Exchange                                     256.1             -          -           37.3            -   293.3   4.2    12.2
Total BASELINE COSI~ 2,326.1                                           212.0       77.3          417.1         91.7 3,124.3   5.1   160.0
Physical Contingencies                                 154.1            -        3.2            2.7            -   160.0   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                   223.2          32.8        6.5           42.3            -   304.7   5.5    16.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     2,703.4        244.8       87.0          462.1         91.7 3,589.0   4.9   176.9
Foreign Exchange                                    1,438.1           1.6      76.7           235.1         47.3 1,798.8   5.3    95.6
April 28, 1983 08:02



-  53
PEDPLE'S DE IOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                  AN=   4
WEALTH DEIELOPHENT PROJECT                                        Page 4 of 14
Sumrs Account bs Time
(YENENI DINAR '000)
Base Coskt
+ Price
Base Costs                   Cont, on  Foreign Exchange
No. of  ------------------------------------------ Base Costs ---------------
Unit    Unit Cost   Units  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  Total   (US$ '000)    I          Amourt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIlIL MSORS
1. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION       luv sum                      -     -    45.4       -       -      -    45.4       131.4    47.0      21.3
Sub-Total lltLUDING CONTIN6ENCIES                                  -    45.4       -       -      -    45.4       131.4    47.0       21.3
Foreign Excht e                                           -     -    21.3       -       -      -    21.3           -      0.0      0.0
2. HEALTH'FACALITIES
UPGRADING AND REPAIRS          each              3      139     -   267.0  150.0        -      -   417.0    1,208.7    47.0    196.0
NEW CONSTRUCTION               each      11.6-27.3       55     -   845.8  362.6   80.3        - 10288.6    4P132.5    47.0    605.7
Sub-Total HEALTH FACILITIES                                        - 1,112.8  512.6   80.3        - 1,705.6    5t341.2    47.0    801.7
Ph.sical Continencies                                     -     -    84.6   36.3    8.0        -   128.9           -    47.0      60.6
Price Continncies                                         -     -    53.7   70.5   26.6        -   150.8           -    30.5      46.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                  - 1,251.0  619.3  114.9        - 1,985.3    5t341.2    45.7    908.2
Foreign Exchane                                           -     -   579.4  279.4   49.4        -   908.2            -     0.0      0.0
3. SUIPERISION                  lump sue         0.07       87     -    15.0   12.9   12.9   12.3    53.0         159.4    00        0.0
Price Continenries                                        -     -      0.1    0.4    0.8    0.7       2.0          -      00      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                  -    15.0   13.3   13.6   13.0    55.0         159.4      0.0      0.0
Sub-Total CIVIL WORltS                                                 - 1,173.1  525.5   93.2   12.3 1,O4.0    5F632.0    45.6    823.0
Phasical Contingwncies                                       -     -    84.6   36.3    8.0        -   128.9           -    47.0      60.6
Price Contingensies                                          -     -    53.7   70.9   27.4    0.7   152.8             -    30.1      46.0
Sub-Total INCLUIING CONTINGENCIES                                      - 1,311.4  632.6  128.6   13.0 2.085.6    5,632.0    44.6    929.5
Foreign Exchange                                             -     -   600.7  279.4   49.4        -   929.5           -      0.0      0.0
B. FURNITURE
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION            each                       -     -      9.2      -       -      -      9.2       27.5    90.0       8.2
HEALTH FACILITIES                 each       0.35-0.7      241     -   130.9    9.5    2.1        -   142.5       431.6    90.0    128.2
HEALTH EMUCATION                  each                       -     -      4.2      -       -      -      4.2       12.7    90.0       3.8
Sub-Total FURNITURE                                                    -   144.3    9.5    2.1       -   155.8       471.8    90.0    140.2
Phssical Contingncies                                        -     -      7.2    0.5    0.1       -      7.8          -    90.0       7.0
Price Contingencies                                          -     -      5.8    1.1    0.4       -      7.3           -    90.1      6.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTI)NENCIES                                      -   157.2   11.1    2.6        -   170.9      471.8    90.0    153.8
Foreign Exchane                                              -     -   141.5   10.0    2.4        -   153.8           -      0.0      0.0
C. EOUIPWENT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION            each                       -     -    12.9       -       -      -    12.9        38.8    90.0      11.6
HEALTH FACILITIES                 each        0.1-0.5      588     -   132.1    2.7    0.6        -   135.4       408.1    90.0    121.8
HEALTH EDUCATION                  each   0.035-1.035        24      -     8.8      -       -      -      8.8       26.5    90.0       7.9
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                    -   153.8    2.7    0.6        -   157.1      473.5    90.0    141.4
Phtsical Continencies                                        -     -      7.7    0.1    0.0       -      7.9          -    90.0       7.1
Price Contii,sencies                                         -     -      6.1    0.3    0.1       -      6.6          -    90.1       5.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -   167.6    3.2    0.7       -   171.5       473.5    90.0    154.4
Foreign Exchanse                                             -     -   150.9    2.8    0.7        -   154.4           -      0.0      0.0
D. VEHICLES
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION            each        1.7-3.5       11     -    31.2       -       -      -    31.2        93.9    90.0      28.1
HEALTH EDUCATION                  each        1.7-3.5        4     -    12.2       -       -      -    12.2        36.7    90.0      11.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                     -    43.4      -       -      -    43.4       130.6    90.0      39.1
Phssical Contingencies                                       -      -     2.2      -       -      -      2.2          -    90.0       2.0
Price Contirgencies                                          -      -     1.7      -       -      -      1.7          -    90.1       1.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -    47.3       -      -      -    47.3       130.6    90.0      42.6       CONTINUED
Foreign Exchange                                             -     -    42.6       -       -      -    42.6           -      0.0      0.0



-  54  -
..CONTIN4UED                                    PEOPLE'S [EYOXRATIC REPUILIC OF YEMEN                                         M          
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              ?age 5 of  14
SusaLe     c kount bh  Tin
(YEMENI DIIAR '000)
Base Costs
+ Price
Base Costs                    Cont. on  Foreisn Exchanse
o. of  -------------- ------------------------- Base Costs ----------------
Unit    Unit Cost   Units  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  Total   (US$ '000)    /             Aount
E. TIMU d   _sun                       e/e         2.9-2.9       48      -    71.1   65.2   23.2    5.8   165.3          525.8    67.4    111.4
Pricw   ontntn                                                 -      -     2.7    7.5    4.4    1.5    16.1              -    70.0       11.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        -    73.8   72.7   27.6    7.3   181.4          525.8    67.6    122.6
Foreign Exchange                                               -     -    48.2   46.5   22.1    5.9   122.6               -      0.0       0.0
F, OEJSE  TRAINING                     s/s             0.7       18      -     4.2    3.5    4.9         -    12.6        40.8   100.0       12.6
Price Contirnwties                                             -      -     0.2    0.4    0.9        -      1.5           -   100.0        1.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGNCIES                                         -     4.4    3.9    5.8        -    14.1         40.8   100,0       14.1
Foreig  Exchtnie                                               -      -     4.4    3.9    5.8        -      1                      0 -  .  0.0
G. PRODUCTION OF HEALTH
EDUCATION MTERIALS               lum  sue                      -     -    11.8   13e8   13.5    0.8    39.9           129.5    87.5      34.9
Physical Continrecies                                          -      -     0.5    0.7    0.7    0.0        1.9           -    90.0        1.7
Price Continencies                                             -     -      0.5    1.7    2.7    0.2        5.0           -    89.2        4.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        -    12.8   16.2   16.9    1,1    46.9          129.5    87.8       41.1
Foreign Excha                                                  -     -    10.5   14.5   15.2    1.0    41.1               -      0.0      0.0
H. PROECT PREPARATION FACILITY   lumr sum                         -  91.7        -       -       -       -    91.7       265.9    51.5       47.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    91.7        -       -       -      -    91.7        265.9    51.5       47.3
Foreign Exchanse                                               -  47,3        -       -       -      -    47,3            -      0.0      0.0
Total INESTMENT CoSTS                                                    91.7 1,601.6  620.1  137.5   18.9 2t469.8    7,669.9    54.7  1,349.7
Physical Contingencies                                            -      -   102.2   37.6    8.8    0.0   148.6              -    52.7       78.3
Price Contingencies                                               -      -    70.7   82.0   35.9    2.5   191.1              -    40.5       77.3
----   ----     -   --   - - - -   - --   ------   -- - - - - - - --   --- - -
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            91.7 1,774.5  739.6  182.2   21.4 2,809.4    7,669.9    53.6  1,505.4
Foreign Exchane                                                   -  47.3   998.7  357.2   95.5    6.8 1,505.4               -      0.0       0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL EXPENDITURES                     0.005-1.62   5,608        -    38.5   55.4   61,1   61.1   216.0          729.9    15.0      32.4
Price Continmencies                                           -     -      1.4    6.4   11.7   16.2    35.8              -    13.7       4.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       -    40.0   61.8   72.8   77.3   251.8          729.9    14.8      37.3
Foreign Exchange                                              -     -      8.4    9.0    9.6   10.2    37.3              -     0.0       0.0
B. TRAINING OPERATING COSTS                      0.05-0.9   1,244      -    32.1   80.3   54.8   43.4   210.6           704.8      0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                           -     -      1.2    9.3   10.5   11.6    32.6              -     0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -    33.3   89.6   65.3   55.0   243.2           704.8      0.0      0.0
C. DRUGS AND MEDICAL SiPPLIES                 0.025-0.65   2,144        -    20.0   47.3   70.1   90.5   227.9          785.6    90.0    205.1
Physical Continencies                                         -     -      1.0    2.4    3.5    4.5    11.4              -    90.0      10,3
Price Contin*ncies                                            -     -      0.8    5.7   13.9   24.9    45.3              -    89.9      40.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       -    21.8   55.3   87.5  119.9   284.6          785.6    90.0    256.1
Foreign Exchane                                               -     -    19.6   49.8   78.7  107.9   256.1               -     0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                       -    90.6  183.0  185.9  195.0   654.5    2,220.3    36.3    237.5
Physical Contingencies                                            -      -     1.0    2.4    3.5    4.5    11.4              -    90.0       10.3
Price Contingencies                                                      -     3.5   21.3   36.2   52.7   113.7              -    40.1      45.6
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               -    95.1  206.6  225.6  252.2   779.5    2,220.3    37.6    293.3
Foreign Exchange                                                  -     -    28.1   58.8   88.4  118.1   293.3               -      0.0       0.0
_- -   -- - -   -- --   -- --   -- --   -- - -_ - - -- -   -  - -    --- - -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      91.7 1,692.2  803.1  323.4  213.8 3,124.3    9i890.2    50.8  1,587.2
Physical Contingencies                                             -      -   103.2   39.9   12.3    4.6   160.0              -    55.4       88.6
Price Contingencies                                                -      -    74.2  103.3   72.1   55.2   304.7              -    40.4    123.0
Total PROJECT COS19                                                       91.7 1,869.6  946.3  407.9  273.5 3,589.0    9,890.2    50.1  1,798.8
Foreign Exchange                                                   -  47.3 1,026.7  416.0  183.8  124.9 1,798.8               -      0.0       0.0
April 28, 1983 08I02



- 55 -
PEOALE'S DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC DP YEMEN                           ANBLVEX  4
WEALTH XEELOR9(NT PROJECT                                  Pag-e  6of  14
Table I   CIVIL WORES
Detailed Cos t Table
(TEMENI DINAR '0ASE
Ooaotito                                              Base Costs                   Ph.
Unit   82,83 838   4/85 85/86 86/87 Total linit Cost 82/03  83/84  84/85  85/Se 86/87 Total   Rote  Loco,
I. ISEOSTMENT COSTS
N. RENOVATION FOR
PROJECT ADR.IMIATRATIIN
ADENCP  S(layu t -S-                                                                                                 .0       -      - 
ADENN( EALTHNEDUCATION4                    la u  -S-    10.4                                                                   ---.                4:1         047
LANEJ                                      laW  so.-                                                               10.0                           10.0          .41
ABTAN                                      I  umeas-                                                               10.0        -     -      -.4
NA RAOAWT                                  ls- u -S-    11.0                                                                  -      -      -,4
Sub-Total RENOIATIOH FOE
PROJECT AONTNIOTRATION                                                                                        -    45.4        -     -      -
HEALTHd FACILITIES -
UPGRADING AND REPAIRS
LAHSO                                        each        -     29    153                  42           5           87.0    09~          2.0 -    ..t           .47
ASTAN                                        each         -    10      0 8                26           3           54.0   24,0       -              .-04-
NADRAMAWT                                    each        -     42    29       -      -    71           5          126.0   97.2       -      -        ~         -~4
Sub-Total NEOuLT FACILiTTE'Y
JFORAIIINI ANT, REPAIRS                                                                                      - 267,2 150,.           -      -       .
C. HEALTH FACILITIES -
NEW CONSORuCTIIN
I.LOAHJ - 'TYPE 1 56 So . 3.)
REtIONSA                                 each-         -             -      -                   11.6      -    1.5         -      -      -                   .4
REG8ON B                                 each                3      1I                  4      13EA 6           41.A   13.1       -      -    '4    ~         4
REGIlONC                                 echc                2                          2      :5.35      -     301,3      -      -      -              -i:.
SITE SEVELIPNENT                         100-- -8,4    i.a                                                                       ;-      -.   ',4
Sub-Total .ANE. - TYPE I (So so. a.-                                                                               92.30    5.                    3.
2. LA8EJ - T'PE II (99 so,.,
REGIONS                                  ea~ch               1      1     -             u       2.;             21.9   2-.'       -38 -                     04
REGION R                                 each                i                          2       20.2      -     23.2   21.2      4-4 -1~'4
REGION C                                 each                2      1 i                 3       27,3      -     50O6   27,3       -      -7
SITE SEVELIFNENT                         100                                       -                       1.
Sub-Total LA/tJ - TYPE 1I (99 So. .1- 109,7   '?.6                                                                                   -      -    VY 
3. A818N - TYPE 1 156 so. 0.)
REGION 9                                 each                9     2             -      c       10.6      -      4,4   27.2       -      -    Al      C.1  1.47,
SITE DEVELOPNENT                          101                                                   -          .5    2.7       -      -     8.2   0.1  0.4T
Soc-Total ABYAN - TYPE I 156 so. in)-                                                                              59.1    99                     89.8 
4. SATAN - TYPE 01 (99 so,. ,1
REEION A                                 each                B     4      0      -      S        1.            174,4   87.2  21.8        - 2S3.N    i.i  0.4'
REAIONAB                                 each               6      2      1      -      9       24.7      - 148,2   49,4  24.7           -   222,0    0 .1    A 
SITE ECOELOPNEN                          100--                           -                                    32.2   03.7   4,7         -     0.e   0.1  0,42.
Sob-Total ARTAN - TYPE 1I (99 so. i.                                                                         - 354,8  150.3  11.2           -    50.3
5,.bADRAMAT - TYPE 1 156 so. e.~
REGIONAB                                 each                2     -                    2       14.9      -     29.8       -      -      -    29.8   0.1  0.4'1
SITEIDEVELOPMENT                         lV0                                                        -      3.0       -      -     -      3.0   0.1  0.47
Sub-Total HAtRANANlT - TTPE 1 150 so.  3.                                                                           2.8                           32.9
6. ANORMAWT - TTPE 11 (99 so. B.)
REGION A                                 each                1     -                    I       22.3      -     22.5       -                  22.3   0.1.  1.4
REGION B                                 each                I I                         .4.1             24.1        -      -      -    24,1   2.1  0.47
REGION C                                 each                0     5      1      -              26.5      - 132.0   70,5  26.5           -    38.  01.1  0,4
SITE SEYELOPNENT                         III- -                                        -17.4    8.3   2.6                              -    28.0   1.1  0.47
Sec-Total .,AlSAMANN  - TTPE Il 199 so. i.S- 196.2   87.5  29.1                                                                             -   312.8
Sub-Total HEALTH FACILITIES -
NEW CDNSTR8CTIO8N                                                                                            -   A4S.B  362.6  8t.T         - 1,288.6
0.SSPER0VISION
1. CONSTRUCTION SUPERYISID84 I M8CI
BASIC REALTH SERYICES                  lue So.                                                                 12.8   11.2  11,0  11,0    45,8                0
STRENGTHENING MOPH                     lanS.                                                                          I 0.                            2
Sob-Total CONSTRUCTION SSPERYIVION I MOC I-                                                                        13.9   11.8  11.0  11.2    46.9
2. MEPA CONSTRUCTION SOiPERVISi8N
EBASIC HEALTH SERVICES                   rn/a               9    27    27   '1B841              0.17      -     0.6    1.9   1.9   1.3         0.7      0      2
STRENGTHENING tP6                        An/a         -      A         -         -      6       0.07      -      0.4       -      -     -      2,4          0
Sub-Total NOPHCONSTRLICTION SIPERVISION                                                                      -      1.,1    l.9   1.9   1.3        6.11
Sub-Total SSSPERVSOi2N                                                                                           -    0.0   12.9  12.9  12.3    03.0
Total INVESTMENT COTS                                                                                               -1,073.8  520.5  93.2  12.3 1,804.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                 -1,173.1  020,0  93.2  12.3 1,814.0
April 28' 1983 08101



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                        Page  7  of  14
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. FURNITURE
Detailed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR '000)
Ouantitj                                       Base Costs                   Ph,.
----------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------- Cort. or,
Unit   82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Cost 82/83 83/84  84/85 85/86 86/87 Total  Rate  E.ich.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CENTRAL & REGIONAL
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
AtlEN (P.I.U)                        lump sum       -      -      -     -       -     -            -    4.8       -      -      -    4.8  0.05   0u,
ADEN ( HEALTH EDUCATION              lump sum       -      -      -      -      -      -           -    3.1       -      -      -    i.l  0.05    0.,
LAHEJ                                1UOP sue      -      -      -       -     -      -            -    1.2       -      -      -    1.20,,05   3.rs
ABYAN                                lumP sum       -      -      -      -      -     -            -    i.2       -      -      -           9.2  0.05   O.;
HADRAMAWT                            lusp sum       -     -      -      -      -      -            -    2u0       -      -      -    2.0 0,05  0.
REGIONAL   HEALTH EDUCATION          lui - sum10    -     -      -      -      -      -            -    1.1       -      -      -    1.1  0.05    0.7
Sub-Total CENTRAL & REGIONAL
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                                             -   ;3,4       -      -      -   13.4
B. HEALTH UNITS
1, NEW CONSTRUCTION
TYPE I                             each         -    12       3      -      -    15 0.35       -    4.2 1i.           -      -    5.3 " .05    ?.3
TYPE II                            each         -    25    i2        3      -    40  0.7        -   17.5   8.4   2.1         -   28.0  0.05   ?,9
Sub-Total NEW CONSTRUCTION                                                                         -   ,'.7   9.5    2.1        -   33.3
2. PROJECT AREA UNITS
TYPE I                             esch         -    60       -      -      -    60 0.35        -   21.0       -      -     -   21.0  0.0,5   0.9
TYPE II                            each         -   i26       -      -      -   126  0,7        -   88.2       -      -      -   38.2 0,05    0.5
Sub-Total PROJECT AREA UNiTS                                                                       -  19.2       -      -      -  iO9.2
Sub-Total HEALTH UNITS                                                                                 -  i33.9   9,5   2.1         -  142,5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS    .                                                                               -  144.3   9.5   2.1         -  155.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       -  144,3   9.5   2.1         -  i S
April 28? 1983 08.01



- 57 -
PEOPLE'S DEMO TIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                      ANN         4
HEALTH IIE~NIF MIECTANE
HAbLT     3. EGUIPIEIT                          Page 8 of 14
Det.ile Cost Table
(YEhENI DINAR '000)
Oumntitv                                        Base Costs                 Ph>.
----------------------------------              ------------------------------------- Cor,t, For.
Unit     82/83 83/B4 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Unit Cost 82/83 83/84  84/85 85/86 86/87 Total  Rate  Etch.
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CENTRAL I REGIONAL
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
ADEN (P.I,U)                      lump sue        -      -     -     -      -     -                -    7.2      -     -      -    7,2  0.05   0.9
ADEN ( HEALTH EDUCATION)           luP sue        -      -     -      -     -     -                -    1.7      -      -     -    1.7  0.05   0.9
LAHEJ                             lump sue        -      -     -     -      -     -                -    1.8      -     -      -    1.B  0.05   0.9
ABYAN                             lump sue        -      -     -      -     -     -                -    1.8      -      -     -    1.8  0.05   0.9
HADRAMAWT                         lumsue          -      -     -     -      -     -                -    2.1      -     -      -    2.1  0.05   0.9
REGIONAl ( HEALTH EDUCATION)    luU sue           -      -     -     -      -     -                -    1,1      -     -      -    1.1  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total CENTRAL I REGIONAL
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                                             -   15.7      -     -      -   15.7
B. HEALTH UNITS
1. NEW CONSTRUCTION
TYPE I                           each          -    12      3     -      -    15       0.1      -    1.2   0.3      -     -    1.5  0.05   0.9
TYPE II                          each          -    25    12      3      -    40        0.2     -    5.0   2.4   0.6       -    8.0  0,05   0.9
Sub-Total NEW CONSTRUCTION                                                                         -    6.2   2.7   0.6       -    9.5
2. PROJECT AREA UNITS
TYPE I                           each          -    60      -     -      -    60        0.1     -    6.0      -     -     -    6.0  0.05   0.9
TYPE II                          each          -   126      -     -     -   126        0.2      -   25.2      -     -     -   25.2  0.05   0.9
HEALTH CENTERS                   each          -    15      -     -      -    15       0.5      -    7.5      -     -     -    7.5  0.05   0.9
REFRIGERATORS                    each          -   166      -     -      -   166     0.248      -   41.2      -     -      -   41.2  0.05   0.9
LABORATORY                       each          -   166      -     -      -   166     0.277      -   46.0      -     -     -   46.0  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total PROJECT AREA UNITS                                                                       -  125.9      -     -      -  125.9
Sub-Total HEALTH UNITS                                                                                -  132.1   2.7   0.6       -  135.4
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM            P.a.sistes.      -      4     -     -      -     4     0.104      -    0.4      -     -      -    0.4  0.05   0.9
CASETTE RECORDERS                 recorder        -      4     -     -      -     4     0.069      -    0.3      -     -      -    0.3  0.05   0.9
SOUND FILM
16MM PROJECTORS                Projector       -     4      -     -     -      4     0.276      -    1.1     -      -     -    1.1  0.05   0.9
SCREENS                            screen         -      4     -     -      -     4      0,035     -    0.1      -     -      -    0.1  0,05   0.9
VIDEO RECORDER SET                  video         -      1     -     -      -     1      1.035     -    1.0      -     -     -    1.0  0.05   0.9
VIDOE TAPES
AND ACCESSORES                 1ueP sum        -     -      -     -     -      -                -    2.2      -     -     -    2.2  0.05   0.9
PROJECTOR STAND                     each          -      4     -     -      -     4        0.1     -    0.4      -     -      -    0.4  0.05   0,9
GENERATORS                           each         -      3     -     -      -     3     0.138      -    0.4      -     -      -    0.4  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total HEALTH EDUCATION                                                                            -    6.0      -     -      -    6.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                   -  153.8   2.7   0.6       -  157.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       -  153.8   2.7   0.6      -  157.1
April 28, 1983  08:01



- 58 -
'EIPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLiC OF YEMEN                  ANNEX  4
HEALIH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       Page  9 of  14
Table 4. vEHICLES
Detailed Cost Table
YEMENI DINAR   '000,
ljarntits                                     base Costs                  Phy.
----------------------------------- 'unit ----------------------------------- - Irst. For,
Urnt 32 383 83i4 84/85 35/86 86187 Total Cost 82J83 83/84 84/85 85/36 86/87 Total Rate  EN;c6.
I. INVESTMENT cosTs
A, PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. dEN (P.I.U.)
LANL CRUISER               each       -      1     -      -      -      i  3.5       -   3.5       -             -   3.5  G.55    .9
STATION lASOO              each       -      1      -      -     -       i .         -   i         -      -      -   !.7  0.05    G
PIKOF                     each       -      1     -                    i -4              2.4      --   2.40.05    ,^
Sub-Totai ADIEN (P,i,U.)                                                                 -    ,6      -      -      -    '70
2  LAHEi GOVERNORATE
LAND CRUISER               each      -       ;     -      -      -      l3.          -   '.5       -      -      -   353 G.G5    .',
PICK UP                    each       -      i     -      -      -      ;  2.4       -   2.4       -      -      -   2.4  0.05   G.9
Sub-Total LAHEi 'OVERNORATE                                                              - ..  -             -      -   5.,
3. ABYAN GOVERNORATE
LAND CRUISER               each       -      I     -      -      -          3.5      -   3,5       -      -      -   3.5  0.05   0.9
PICK UP                    each       -      1     -      -      -      1  2.4       -   2.4       -      -      -   2.4  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total ABYAN GOVERNORATE                                                             -   5.9       -      -      -   5.9
4. HADRAMAWT GOVERNORATE
LAND CRUISER               each      -      2      -      -      -      2  3,5       -   7.O       -      -      -   7-,  0.05   0.9
PICK UP                    each       -     2      -      -      -      2  2.4       -   4,8       -      -      -   4.8  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total HADRAMAWT GOVERNORATE                                                          -  11.8      -      -      -  11.8
Sub-Total PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                                            -  31.2       -      -      -  31.2
B. HEALTH EDUCATION
1. AdIEN
STATION WAGON              each       -      I     -      -      -          1.7      -   17               -      -   1.7  3.05   0.9
2. THREE GOVERNORATES
LAND CRUISER               each       -      3      -     -      -      3  3.5       -  10.5           -         -  10.5  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total HEALTH EDUCATION                                                                  -  12.2       -      -      -  ;2.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         -  43.4                         43,4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                             -  43.4      -      -      -  43.4
Aprii 28, 1983  08:01



- 59 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                      ANNEX  4
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           Page  10  of 14
Table 5. PRODUCTION OF HEALTH EDUCATION MATERIALS
Detailed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR  '000)
Quantiti                                     Base Costs                 Ph,3.
----------------------------------- Unit ----------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit   82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Cost 82/83 83/84 84/8J 85/86 86/87 Total Rate  E,xch.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FIELD WORKERS SEMINAR
TRAVEL I PER IIIEMS                           a0ount        -      -             -     -      -            -   0.7      -      -      -     .7      ^      G
LECTURER FEES                                 amount        -      -      -      -            -            -   0.4       -      -     -   0.4       0      3
PRINTING MATERIALS                            amount        -      -      -      -     -      -            -   0.1       -     -      -   C.i  1,S   3.
Sub-Total FIELD WORKERS SEMINAR                                                                               -   1.2       -      -
B. MANUAL PRINTING                               lump sum       -      -     -                                -   0.2       -      -      -   0.2  0.05   3.9
C. INFORMATION / COMMUNICATION MATERIALS
BULLETIN FRINTING  /a                         asount        -      -      -      -     -      -            -   0,3   0.3   0.4   0.4   1,4  0,05   G.9
PRINTING POSTERS / PAMPHLETS                  amount        -      -      -      -     -      -            -   0,7    1.5   1.0       -   3.4  0.05   0.9
LOCAL PRODUCTION OF MATERIALS                 anournt       -      -      -      -      -     -            -   C,3   O,3   0.4   0.4   1.4  0,05   0.9
PRODUCTION OF 8 FILMS                         amount        -             -      -      -     -            -   7,0  l,.G  10.3       -  27.0  0,05   0.9
REPRODUCTION OF FILMS   32                    aeounit       -      -      -      -      -      -           -   1.0   1,7   1.         -   4.4  3.35   0.9
PURCHASE OF PREMADE FILMS                     amourt        -      -      -      -      -     -            -   0,9       -     -      -   0.9  3,31 93 5
Sub-Total INFORMATION / COMMUNICATION MATERIALS                                                               -  10.4  13.8  13.5  CG8  3S8.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                            -  11.8  13.8  13.5   0.6  39,9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                               -  i1.6  13.5  13.5   3.6  319;
/a  500 COFIES PER ISSUE ANPi PRINTED WUARTERLY
April 25, 1983  06:01



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                    Page  11  of 14
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6. TECHNIC'AL ASSISTANCE
lletailed Cost 7able
(YEMENI DINAR  'OGOO
Quantits                                      Pase Costs                 phl,
-----------------------------------  Unit ----------------------------------- Corrt.P or,
Unit  82183 E3/84 84/5 8S/86 86/87 Total Cost 82'83  3/'4 94/55 35/66 86/5, ,ota;  Rate  E;&ch
i. INVESTMENT COSTS
Ah  SHORT iERM CONSULTANTS
FHC MANAGEMENT                         rin         -    12    1^       2      2    28  2.9       - 4.S  4.J    .0          .c   8.2
HEALTH EDUCATION                      rn           -      3      -     -      -      3  21.9 9A
OTHER                                  s/a         -      5      6     6      -    17  2.9           i4.5  1'.4  .7.4            4.3
uoT,tai SHORT TERM CONSULTANTS                                                                       -  58.  52,2  23.2   5.8  139.2
B. APPLIED RESEARCH
PRIMARv 4EALTH CAPE kC-IVTiIES    ijma lju         -      -     -      -      --     -               13,1 1347.0               -6.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                  -  71.1  6r.2  23.2   5,3  165.3
Totai  BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       71'.i  05.2  A3-2   5S   i
April 28. 1953 08:01



- 61 -
ANNECX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                Fwg.  12  of  14
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7. OVERSEAS TRAINING
Detailed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR  '000)
Quantity                                    Base Corts                 Phi,
--------------------------------- Unit ----------------------------------- Cont. For.
Unit 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Cost 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Rate  Exch.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PUBLIC HEALTH                    e/e       -      -     2      2      -     4  0.7       -     -   1.4   1.4       -   2.8       c, 
B. STATISTICS AND EPIDEMIOLOGY   m/m          -      1     -      1      -     2  0.7       -   0,7      -   0.7      -   1.4      0      1
C. MCH AND FAMILY PLANNING          n/n       -      -     2      1      -      3  0.7      -     -   1.4   0.7       -   2.1       0     1
D. NUTRITION                        a/l       -      -     -      2      -     2  0.7       -     -      -   1.4      -   1.4       0     1
E. TRAINING                        rn/        -      -     1      1      -     2  0.7       -     -   0.7   0.7       -   1.4       0     1
F. HEALTH EDUCATION
DIRECTOR                         r/r       -     1      -      -     -      1 0.7       -   0.7      -      -      -   0.7      O      1
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR               */D       -     1      -      -     -      1  0.7      -   0.7       -     -      -   0.7      0      1
HEALTH EDUCATORS                 r/n       -     3      -      -     -      3  0.7      -   2.i      -      -      -   2.1      0      1
Sub-Total HEALTH EDUCATION                                                                  -   3.5      -      -     -   3,5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         -   4.2   3.5   4.9       -  12.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                            -   4.2   3.5   4.9        -  12.6
April 28, 1983 08:01



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 14
POPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC DF YEMEN
WElLTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ta.le i INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR '000)
-Guantita                                           Base Costs                  Fhv.
----------------------------------------              --------------------------------------- Cost. For.
Unit    82/83 83/H4  84/85  85/86  86/87  Total  Unit Cost 82/83 83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  Total  Rate  Exch.
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PIU STAFF ADEN
I. SALARIES
COORDINATOR                        nan-sears        -      1      1       1      1       4      1.62      -   1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    6.5       0      0
TECHNICAL STAFF                    nn-sears         -      3      3       3      3      12      0,84      -   2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5   10.1       C
SUPPORT STAFF                     nan-ears         -       4      4       4      4      16      0.48      -   1.9    1.9    1.9    (.9    7,7       3      3
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                           -   6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1   24.2
2. DINER
TRAVEL   AIR)                       trips          -      25     25      25     25    100       0.04      -   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    4.0       I   0.9
TRAVEL   LAiD                        amount        -       -      -       -      -       -                -   4,0    4.0    4.0    4.0 216.0        C   0.9
SUBSISTACE                            dass         -    170    130    120    120    540         0.01      -   1.7    1.3    1.2    1.2    5.4       0      3
OWFICE SWPLIES                      amount         -       -      -       -      -       -                -   2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    S.0       0     0
Sub-Total OTHER                                                                                              -   8.7    8.3    8.2    8.2   33.4
Sub-Total  IU STAFF AOEN                                                                                       -  14.8   14.4   14.3   14.3   57.6
8. THREE GWVERRATES
1. SALARIES
PROFESSIONLS                      nan-sears        -       4      4       4      4      16      1.62      -   6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5   25.9       0      0
TECHNICIALNS                      nan-sears        -       4      4       4      4      16      0.84      -   3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4   13.4       0     0
SU"7 STAFF                        nan-sears        -       4      4       4      4      16      0.48      -   1.9    1.9    1,9    1.9    7.7       0     0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                           -  11.8   11.8   11.8   11.8   47.0
2. OTHER (TRAINING I SUPERVISION)
TRA4EL ( LANO)                     amount          -       -      -       -      -       -                -   4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   16.0       0   0,9
SUBSISTANCE                           days         -  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200  4,800        0.005      -   6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0  4.0        0     0
OFFICE SIPLIES                      amount         -       -      -       -      -       -                -   2.0    2.0    2.8    2.0    0.8       8     0
Sub-Total OTHER (TRAINING L SUPERYISION)                                                                     -  12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   48.0
Sub-Total THREE SWERNORATES                                                                                     -  23.8   23.8   23.8   23.8   95.0
C. EXTRA HEALTH UNITS
ADDITIONAL NURSES                     nan-sears        -      -     24      32     32      80      0.72      -     -   17.3   23,0   23.0   63.4       0      0
D. TRAINING HEALTH
UNIT PERSONNEL
TRAINING  IJRSES                        staff          -      -     48      16      -      64       0.9      -     -   43.2   14.4       -   57.6      0      0
TRAINING WEALTH GUIDES                  staff          -    120    120    120    120    480       0.125      -  15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   60.0       0      0
RETRAINING PHC WORKERS/
CONTINJING EDUCATION                staff          -    114    134    156    176   50          0.15     -  17.1   20.1   23.4  26.4   87.0         0     0
TRAINING TM                             staff          -      -     40      40     40    120       0.05      -     -    2.0    2.0    2.0    6.0       0      D
Sub-Total TRAINING HEALTH
UNIltfERSOIEL                                                                                                -  32.1   80.3   54.0   43.4  210.6
E. DRUG6 AND SWPLIES
ADDITIONAL DRUGS FOR
EXISTING HEALTH UNITS              sue/unit        -    225    225    225    225    900        0.025      -   5.6   11.3   16.9   22.5   56.3  0.05   0.9
DRUOS FOR
NEW HEALTH UNITS                    sue/unit       -       -     12      16     16      44       0.6      -     -    7.2   10.0   10.4   27.6  0.05   0.9
DRUIS FOR
HEALTH GUIDES                    health suide      -    120    240    360    480  19200         0.12      -  14.4   28.8   43.2   57.6  144.0  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total DRUGS AND SUPLIES                                                                                     -  20.0   47.3   70.1   90.5  227.9
Total RECMUREAT COSTS                                                                                              -  90.6  183.0  185,9  195.0  654.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                -  90.6  183.0  185.9  195.0  654.5
April 28? 1983 08:01



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                    Page  14  of  14
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT FROjEC-
Table 9. PROJECT PREPARATION FACIL:TY
Detai1ed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR  '0u
Quantita                                     Base Costs t
---------------------------- Unit --------------------------                           Cant, Foi.
Unit   82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Cost 82/87 sOi84 64,85 8                  8 86 So8   otai Rate  E cr
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FIRST PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
1. REPORT PREPARATION
CONSUJLTANT FEES
AIR iRAVEL                                  iutP su                                -  --
PER DiEMS                                   1U F SUN     -     -      --                             2 3                           -   2 G
FEES                                        luSSpiG        -      --                                   7.1 i. i
Sub-Total REFORT PREPARATION
CONSULTANT FEES                                                                                       ,C.2 -           -      -      -  iG .
2. MANAGEMENT TRAINING FOR
SIX MID-LEVEL MOH STAFF
AIR TRAVEL                                  lurip sum      -     -      -      -      -      -         4.0      -      -      -      -   4.       0 
PER biEMS                                   luip su        -     -      -      -      -      -         6.7      -                    -   S          7  G  I
TUITION                                     lUaPSUS        -      -     -      -      -      -         G8       -                        A 
Sut-Total MANAGEMENT TRAINING FOR
STX MID-LEVEL MOH STAFF                                                                               13.5       ---13.5
3. CASE STUDY FIE,iD TRIPS ABROAD
THREE SENIOR-LEVEL KOH STAFF
PREPARATION OF CASE5                        lump suk      -      -      -      -      -      -                         --G
AiR TRAVEL                                  iJ P5. SUN     -      -      -            -                                       -      -
FER DIEM                                      lF su        -     -      -      -      -      ---                                     - . 
Sub-Total CASE STUDY FIELD TRIPS ABROAD
THREE SENIOR-LEVEL MOH STAFF                                                                           3,9      -      -      -     -   3,9
4. MISCELLANEOUS                               lUG-                  -                                    0.9      -      -      -      -   O               i
Sub-Total FIRST PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                                                 28.5      -8 S
B. SECOND PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
1. DESIGN OF TRAINING CENTERS
CONSULTANT FEES                             iUSF SuS      -      -      -      -      -      -        3,.o      -      -      -      -  3686
2 SURVEY OF RESOURCES
PHYSICAL,M4ANPOWER &EQUIFMENT NEEDS
TRAVEL EXPENSES                             lup siw        -      -     -      -      -      -. 5.2             -.9
3. PROJECT COORDINATOR
SALARY FOR 18 MAN - MONTHS                  imJp ps                     -      -      -      -         31       -      -      -                   n      Ij. 
4, TRAINING OF TRAINERS
FEES FIR 6 MAN - MONTHS                     iuGp SAJs      -     -      -                    -        I.^       -      -    ---   10.8            .
TRAVEL                                      luSP s            -                -      -                 ,              -      -     -    _4
PER IjIEM                                   iUSIP so       -      -            -      -                4.i   --        -      -     - -   .V      G
Sui-Total TRAINING OF TRhINERS                                                                            6.o2     -          -         -
Sub-Total SECOND tROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                                                6373
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                          ^..           -         -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                             '.        -      -      -      -  '1.'
ApTi2 26, 19S3 08102



- 64-
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                         ANNEX 5
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
1983                    1984                    1985                    1986                    1987
COMPONENT                         1                                                 4  1                           3    4  1 2 |      4 1     3
PRE-PROJECT                  YEAR I                  YEAR 2                  YEAR 3                  YEAR 4
I DEVELOPMENT OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE (PHC) _              _             _      _ _ _ _
1. Assass-ent PHC Coverae 90.  
2. Targer Setting fo, PHC Activ t es.                                                          
3 Revs on of Drugs -sts
4 Evalustin of Impact of PHC__                                                                                   __
11 TRAINING
I Tr ning of 4 ra ning & Supervision Teams (TST)
2 3etci ed Programming of TSTs nterventtons
3. Semincr for Regionof Hospit, Staff                                 .
4 Reorentct on Heolth Units Stoff
T T,Ran ng of Heolth Guides                                                                     I _
6. Train ng of T,dt onal Birrh Attendonts TBA)
7 Contining ;dcot on                                                                                                    T
| 8 ,ovLation & Ucofting
I ll. HEALTH EDUCATION (HE)
| 1 NotirctO HE Serion;
2 HE Field Manuo
3 ProdLct o0 of a Fi Ms s                                                |
4 Prodct of HE Moterals|
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & FELLOWSHIPS                          i
I Techrico Assistonce
2 Fe loesh.ps
V. CIVIL WORKS
A PROJECTADMINISTRATION
- Renovat on Offices
|B. SERVCE & -RAINING FACILITIES
1 Site Surey & So I Tests
2 Bad ng Dcume-tsH
3. Bcd ng Operatiors Con_tsiotio.
4 Con-ro-t A-rds & Canstrctio
Ia Medica stores                                                                              77
b) Regional schoos s                                              -        =       -        _ 
c) Health Units                               |
5 Renov-tion of He-ith Units |
|6 Supervision & Recept on                         |  |                                           -    -             -   -t
.Vl FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT
I. ;roject Administratlon
2. Spec ficaticn Lists
3. Procurement Through UNICEF
4 Baddrng Operations|
6 s-Architerct Awrds 0 0                                                 I
5. Delsonier  A Ins|  at
VSl. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
1 Aponrrent PIU StoPff
2 Cfthae Soaff Aoiontment
3. Se -Annuo,Ptogres, tReporo 
4. Auditing                                      |
| S Folow-up Ptoject Preparft.on                                                                                         |
6   M d-Term     Eva uarton                        b  1                                                                                 -     -     -     -
|     7 -nal PToject Evoi.ction ,                      l    l      l    l      l       _         l    l        _        l    l         _         lS0B          _
World Bank-24647



- 65 -                            Annex 6
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated         TJndisbursed
Fiscal Year/                 Disbursements       Disbursements           Balance
Semester Ending              Amount    %         Amount    %         Amount   _
(US$m)             (US$m)               (US$m)
FY 1984
December 31, 1983            0.1       1.3       0.1       1.3        7.5     98.7
June 30, 1984                 0.8    10.5         0.9    11.8         6.7     88.2
FY 1985
December 31, 1984             1.1    14.5         2.0    26.3         5.6     73.7
June 30, 1985                 1.1    14.5         3.1    40.8         4.5     59.2
FY 1986
December 31, 1985             1.6    21.1        4.7    61.8         2.9      38.2
June 30, 1986                0.9    11.8         5.6    73.7         2.0      26.3
FY 1987
December 31, 1986            0.9    11.8         6.5    85.5          1.1     14.5
June 30, 1987                 0.4     5.3        6.9    90.8         U.7       9.2
FY 1988
December 31, 1987             0.6     7.9         7.5    98.7        0.1        1.3
June 30, 1988                 0.1     1.3        7.6   100.0         0.0       U.0



- 66 -                        Annex 7
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
A. General Reports and Studies
PDRY - Malaria Control Project, Draft Plan of Action for 1980 - (MOPH)
UNDP - PDRY - Report of the Evaluation Mission on the IHMD Project
(January 1980)
UNDP - Country Program for PDRY (December 1981)
UNICEF - PDRY Country Program (1979-1983)
UNICEF - Recommendation of the Executive Director for Assistance to PDRY
(1981)
WHO - PDRY Basic Country Information (March 1980)
UNFPA - PDRY - Report of Mission on Needs Assessment for Population
Assistance (November 1978)
WFP - The World Food Program in PDRY (November 1982)
B. Reports and Working Papers Relating to the Project
PDRY - National Health Program, 1979-1983 (Aden, 1979)
PDRY - Health For All by the Year 2000 - Plan of Action (Aden, 1979)
Survey of Existing Health Facilities in the Governorates of Abyan
(September 1981), Hadramawt (January 1982), and Lahej (July 1982).
Proposal for World Bank Loan Support in the Expansion of PHC in PDRY -
A.L. Creese and C.J. Roberts, Consultants (October 1981)
A Pilot Study of Nutrition and Growth of South Yemeni Children -
B. Kristianson, G. Bagenholm and A. Nasher, Consultants (Aden,
November 1982)
Pre-Investment Study for the Extension of the IHMD - HIFAB International
AB (Ltd). (Stockholm, January 1982)



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                              Page  1  of  2
HEALTH DEVELOIT PROJECT
Table A. MEDICAL STORES
Dltailed Cost Table
(YEMENI DINAR   '0001
Base Costs                       Totals inciudir,3 Lortinsencies          Thu
------              --------------------------------------   -------------------         -------------------    .Cort.  cr.
Unit    Total Unit Cost 82/83 83/84  84/85  85/86 86/87 Total  82/83 83/84  84/85   S5/66 86,S7 Total  Rate  Exch.
I, INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1, THREE MEDICAL STORES
LAHEJ                                  so.o.       285       0.189      -   32.3   21.5         -      -   53.9       -   37.6   27.9        -      -    5.5   0.   3.47
ABYAN                                  so. .       285       0.198      -   33.9   22.6         -      -   56.4       -   39.4   29.2        -      -   68.6   0.1  0.47
HADRAMAWT                              sa.m.       399       0.211      -   50.5   33,7         -      -   84.2       -   58.8    43.6       -      -  102.4   0,1  0.4-
SITE DEVELOPMENT                         10%          -                 -   11.7      7.8       -      -   19.5       -   13.6   1C."        -      -   23,7    0.1  0.47
Sub-Total THREE HEDICAL STORES                                             -  128.4   85.6        -      -  214.0       -  149.4  110.8         -      -  260.2
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                          -  128.4   85.6         -      -  214.0       -  149.4  110.8        -      -  260.2
B. SUPERVISION CIVIL WORKS
1. SUPERVISION  C MOC iluter  sum                        -                  -    1.1      1.0   1.0   1.0       4,1      -    1l.      i.0    i.O    i.      4.1       0      0
2. SUPERVISION I MOPH )                     mls          9       0.07       -    0.1      0.2    0.2   0.1    0.6        -    0.1    0.3   0.3   1.2         0.9       0      0
Sub-Total SUPERVISION CIVIL WORKS                                              -     1.2     1.2   1.2   1.1       4.7       -    1.2      1.2   1.3   1.2    5.0
C. FURNITURE
AHEU                                    8s of cws        -                  -       -              4.7  -  -    4.7      -       -    5.6       -      -    5.6  3.G5   0.9
ABYAN                                   ax of cws        -                  -       -    5.0       -      -    5.0       -        -    5.        -      -    5.8  0.05    0.9
HADRAMAWT                               8% of ews        -                  -       -    7.4       -      -    7,4       -       -    -o'.      -       -    6.7  0.05    0.9
_- -    -- --    -- -- _---    _ ______                    ____ ----- -- -   _- __- __-_- - - -  - ---- -  - - ---  -  -- - --  -- - --  --  r 
Sub-Total FURNITURE                                                            -       -   17.1       -      -   17.1        -       -                          20.0
D. EQUIPMENT
LAHEJ                                   lOZ of ew        -                 -        -    6.0       -      -    6.0       -       -    7.v       -      -    7,3  0.05   0.9
ABYAN                                   10% of cws    -                    -        -    6,2       -      -    e.2       -       -    7.3       -      -    7.3  0.05    0.9
HADRAMAWT                               lOi of Cws       -                 -        -                     -      .2      -       -   10.8              -   10.8  0.05   0.9
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                            -       -   21.4       -      -   21.4       -        -   25.0       -      -   25.0
E. VEHICLES
1. THREE GOVERNORATES
PICK UP                                 each         3        2.4       -    7.2        -      -      -    7.2       -    7,8         -         -         7.,  0.05   0.5
FORK LIFT                               each         3        2.1       -    6.3        -      -      -    6.3       -    6,9         -      -      -    6.9  0.05   0.9
FIVE - TON LORRY                        each         3        6.9       -   20,7        -      -      -   20.7       -   22.6         -      -      -   22.6  0.05    3.9
Sub-Total THREE GOVERNORATES                                               -   34.2         -     -       -   34.2       -   371.3       -      -      -   37.3
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                             -   34.2        -      -4-2                  -   3i.3        -       -      -   37.3
F. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
THREE MEDICAL STORES
TECHNICIANS                             aarrsears       6        0.84      -       -       -   2,5   2.5       5.0      -        -       -   3.0   3.2       6.2      0      0
SUPPORT STAFF                           man-sears       6       0.48       -       -       -   1.4   1.4       2.9       -       -       -   1.7             3.5      0      0
OFFICE COSTS                               amount       -                  -       -       -   0.6   0.6       1.2       -               -   0.    0.8       1.5      i      O
DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSPORT                 asount       -                  -       -       -   2.0    20       4.0       -       -       -   2.4    2.5      4,i      0   O39
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
THREE MEEDICAL STORES                                                      -       -       -   6.5   6.5   13.1         -        -       -   7 .             o.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                            -  163.8  125.3   7.7   7.7  304,            -  187.6  157,1    ;.1   9.5   o.
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                               -  163.S  125.3   7.7   7,7  304.5           -  187.8  157.1   9.i   9,5  362.7
Aersi 29. 1983 13i15



- 68 -
PEWGI'8  ICOTIC  REPUBLIC'OF YEMEN                                                                        ANNlE   8
IAI   EUJINIT PRDECT                                                                                Page 2 of 2
Table1. INRi   W668AS
ht lu    Go"t Tabl
(YEIEi  3D 'IB        )
Pos Costs                            Totals Inciuding Continsencies               phq-
---------------------------------------    -------                                                  Co-t.    For.
Lairt    Total Unit Cost 82/83 83/B4  84/85   B5/K6  86/87 Total   82/83 83/S4  84/85    85/86   8oU87 Total   Rate  Exch.
1. INUESTHENT COSTS
A. CIL WORKS
1. SCHOOLS
LAnE, ( HO STUDENTS )                    so...        667       0.173       -    28.8   40.4    46.2         -    115.4       -   33.6    52.3       66.1       -    15i,9    0.i  3,47
ABYAN    90 STUDENTS)                    oa.s.        667       0.186       -   31.0    43.4    49,6         -    124.1       -   36.1    56.2       71.0            163.    0.;  0G.47
HADRA48 4LI8 t120 STUDENTS )            so.i.         752       0.191       -    35.9    50.3    57.5        -    143.6       -   41.8    6S.1       82,2            189.1    3.1   0.4'
SITE DEVELOPMENT                          10            -                  -     9.6    13.4   15.3         -    38.3        -   11.1    17.4                          ..i4 3.3    47
Sub-Totol SCHOOLS                                                               -  105.3  147.5   168.6         -    420.4        -  122.6  190.9    241.3              554,a
7. 3iARDiNG
LAHEJ 0OYS C 60:                         so...        908       0.171       -    38.8    54,3    62.1        -    155.3       -    45.2    78.3      88.9       -    .4.4    i.i  7.47
LAHEJ iIRLS ( 30                        so.&.         439       0.175       -   i9,2    26.9    30.7         -     76.8       -   22.3    34.8       4.         -.1 .l 47
LAHEJ CCHF.UNAL                          so...        409       0.178       -    18.2    25.5    29.1        -     72.B       -   21.2    33.0       41.7. 85,B    0.1   0.47
ABYAh BOYS 260)                          60..        908       0.184       -   41.8    58.5    66.8         -    167.1       -   48.6    75.7       95.7            19.9   G,1   3.47
A0YAN GIRLS t 30 )                       so.,.        439       0.187       -   20.5    29.7    32,8         -    82.1        -   23.9    37.2       4,,0       - lB.i   G.1  0,47
A0YAN CGNMUNAL                           so...        409       0.191       -    19.5    27,3    31.2        -     78.1       -   22,7    35.4       44.7       -    102.B    O.'  3,47
HADRA3   T BOYS t    40)                 sa..         50        0.191       -   23.9    33.4    38.2         -    95,5        -   27.8   43.3        54.7       -   025.,7   0.   0.47
HPDRAH4AT GIRLS t 20 )                   so..         383       0.191       -    18.3    25.6    29,3        -     73.2       -   21.3    33.,       4i.9       -    06.3    0.1  ,074
HAbRAlAWT CONNUNAL                       so'..        4Z9       0.196       -   20.0   28.1    32.1          -     88.2       -   23.3    36.3       45.9       -   10,55    0.1  u.47
STE DEUELOPHENT                           IOZ            -                       22.0    30.8    35.2        -     88.1       -   25.6    39.9       50.4       -    16.0    0.1  i,47
Sub-Tctoi  BOARDING                                                            -  242,3  339.2  387.6           -   969.1        -  21.19   439.1    554.9         - 1.275,8
Sub-Total C1,I. WORKS                                                              -  347,6   486.7  556.2          - 1.390,5        -  404.4  630.0    796,2          - 10837,6
B. SUPERViSION CIUIL O9OKS
1. SUO ikuiSiUN ( 9U                       iUf   SW         -                  -    B, .      7.0     7.0   7.0       29.0       -     8.3      7.2      ".0    '.i      29.0 C     3
2. SUPERVOSION   0DPH'                       r/r           48       0.07       -     0.4      1.1      1.1    3.8      3.4       -     0.4      1.4       1.a :,6          4.5      0      G
Sub-Total SUPERulSION CIVIL WORKS                                                  -     8.4     B.1      8.1   7.B       32.4       -    8.4      8.4       S.6    B.,      33.5
C. FURNiTuRE
1. SCHOOLS
LAHEJ                                 101alof           -                   -       -     5.1      7.6      -      12.7      -        -     5.9       9.5      -      15.5  0.05    O.9
ABYAN                                 10% of rv         -                   -       -     5.4      8.2      -      13.6       -       -    6.4       10.2      -      16.6 8 G.5    0.9
HADRANAiT                             10% of cs         -                  _        -     6.3    9.5        -      15.8                     7.4      10.8      -      19.2   3.05    0.9
Sub-TDtal SCHOOLS                                                              -        -    16.8    25.3       -     42.1       -       -    19.7      31.5       -     51.3
2. BOARDING AND COM3U8   M
LAHEJ                                 102 of nv         -                  -        -    13.4    20.1       -     33.5       -        -    15.7     25.1       -     40,8  0.05    3.9
48YAN                                 IOIot NSi         -                   -       -    14.4    21.6       -     36.0       -        -   16.9      27.0       -     43.8  0.05    0.9
HADRANrNIT                            10% of cii        -                  -        -    10.9    16.4       -     27.3       -        -    12.8     20.5       -     33.2  0.05    3.9
Sub-Total BOA1ING AND C0MUNAL                                                 -        -   38.7   58.1         -     96.8       -       -   45.3       72.5       -    117.8
Sub-Total FURNITURE                                                                -       -   55.6    83.3        -   138.9        -        -   65.0    104,1        -    169.1
D. EOUIPNENT
1. SCHOOLS
LAHEJ                                 10% of cv         -                  -        -     5.1     7.6       -     12.7       -       -     5.9       9.5       -     15.5  0.05   8.9
ABY4N                                 10% of Ms         -                  -        -    5.4      8.2       -     13.6       -        -     6.4     10.2       -     16.6  0.05    0.9
H4DR4 6T                              1IO  of cf       -                  -        -     6.3     9.5       -     15.8       -       -      7.4     11.       -     19.2  0.35    0.9
Sub-Total SCHOOLS                                                              -       -   16.8    25.3         -     42.1           -        19.7      31.5       -     51.3
2. B34RDING AND CONtUNAL
LAHEJ                                 1I% of  JS        -                  -        -    13.4    20.1       -     33.5       -       -    15.7      25.1       -     40.8  0.05    0.9
ABY N                                 IOZ of cvs        -                  -        -   14.4    21.6        -    36.0        -       -   16.9       27.0       -     43.8   0.05    0.9
HADRr8   T                            10X of cvi        -                  -        -    10.9    16.4       -     27.3       -       -    12.8      20.5       -     33.2  8.05    0.9
- - - - -----  - ----- - ---- ---- ----- - ---          -  ---- - ----    -- ---- ----- -----
Sub-Totai SOARDINB AIID COM4 6L                                                -       -   38.7    58.1        -     96.1       -        -   45.3      72.5       -   117,B
Sub-Total EOUIPIENT                                                               -        -   55.6    83.3        -    138.9       -        -   65.0    104.1        -    169.1
E. VEHICLES
1. THREE GOUERN#40TES
hlNIBUS                                   each         3         3.8       -   11.4         -       -       -     11.4       -   12,4         -        -       -     12.4   0.05    0.9
PICK UP                                   each          3        2.4             7.2                               7.2       -     78                                 7.8  0.05    O.3
LAND CRUISER                              each          3        3.5       -   1i.5         -       -             10.5       -   11,4         -         -      -     11.4  0.05    0.9
Sub-Total THREE BOUERNORATES                                                   -   29.1         -       -      -     29.1       -   31.7         -         -      -      31,7
Sub-Total VEHILES                                                                -   29.1         -        -      -     29.1       -   31.7         -         -      -     31.7
Total INEST7ENT COSTS                                                                -  385.1  605.9  731.0    7.8 1,729.7             -  444.5  768.4 1-012.9    8.2 2,234.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                   -  385.1  605.9  731.0   7.8 1,729.7              -  444.5  768.4 1,012,9    8.2 2,234.0
April 29. 1983 13085



- 69 -                           Table I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Country and Project Area Population Distribution
1982 1/
POPULATION (THOUSANDS)
AGE GROUP
TOTAL      (W)         MALE      (%)      FEMALE      (%)
COUNTRY
0-4                              365.7       18.2      184.3       18.6    181.4        17.9
5-14                             582.4       29.1       311.3      3i.4    271.1        26.8
15-59                            905.0       45.2      422.6       42.6    482.4        47.7
> 60                             150.4        7.5       73.3        7.4     77.1         7.6
COUNTRY TOTAL               2003.5      100         991.5    100      1012.0       100
PROJECT AREA
LAHFJ
I 1                               12.4        4          6.3       4         6.1       3
1-4                               49.5       14         25.1      15        24.4      14
5-14                             105.7       31         55.6      33        50.1      29
15-49                            138.0       40         65.1      38        72.9      42
A 50                              39.1       11         18.0      10        21.1      12
SUBTOTAL                     344.7      100        170.1    100        174.6    100
ABYAN
L1                                14.0        4          7.3       4         6.7       3
1-4                               59.8       15         29.2      15        30.6      15
5-14                             115.9       30         62.9      33        53.1      27
15-49                            153.3       39         72.2      37        81.1      41
50                              49.0        12         21.7      11        27.2      14
SUBTOTAL                    392.0       100        193.3    100        198.7    100
HADRAMAWT
4 1                               24.4        4         14.7       5         9.8       3
1-4                               86.6       14         42.0      14        44.6      14
5-14                             180.4       29         95.0      32        85.3      26
15-49                            239.6       39        102.1      35       137.4      42
50                              88.0        14         41.7      14        46.4      15
SUBTOTAL                    619.0       100        295.5    100        323.5    100
PROJECT AREA TOTAL
z 1                               50.8         4        28.2        4       22.6        1
1-4                              196.0       14         96.3      15        99.6      14
5-14                             402.0       30        213.6      33       188.5      27
15-49                            530.9       39        239.4      36       291.5      42
'50                             176.0        13         81.4      12        94.6      14
TOTAL  PROJECT AREA        1355.7       100       658.9      100      696.8    100
1/  Based on the 1973 census and a total growth rate of 2.6%/annum.
Source: Central Statistics Office



Table 2
- 70 -
PEOPLEtS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ten Leading Causes of Hospital Morbidity -- 1976
Number          Percent
Diseases                                     of              of
Cases          Total
1.  Infectious and Parasitic                       6482            21.0%
2.  Respiratory                                   4300            13.9%
3.  Pregnancy Related                              2829             9.2%
4.  Accidents/Poisoning                            2817             9.1%
5.  Digestive System                               2501             8.1%
6.  Nervous and Sense Organs                       2055             6.7%
7.  Genito and Urinary System                     2023             6.6%
8.  Circulatory System                             1585             5.1%
9.  Ill-Defined Conditions                        1465             4.7%
10.  Blood and Blood-Forming Organs                 1450             4.7%
Sub-Total                          27507           (89.1%)
Other                               3338           (10.9%)
TOTAL                   30845          LiOOO%
Source: National Health Program - 1979-83, Aden.



Table 3
- 71 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ten Leading Causes of Hospital Mortality -- 1976
Numbet          Percent
Diseases                                   of              of
Cases          Total
1.  Infectious and Parasitic                         237            23.2%
2.  Circulatory System                               181            17.7%
3.  Respiratory System                               125           12.2%
4.  Ill-Defined Conditions                            96             9.4%
5.  Accidents/Poisoning                               89             8.7%
6.  Digestive System                                  86             8.4%
7.  Neoplasms                                         52             5.2%
8.  Nervous and Sense Organs                          30             2.9%
9.  Blood and Blood-Forming Organs                    30             2.9%
10.  Endocrine/Nutritional/Metabolic                   29             2.8%
Sub-Total                                 955           (93.4%)
Other                                      66            (6.6%)
TOTAL                         1021          (igO.Q%)
Source: National Health Program - 1979-83, Aden.



Table 4
PEOPLEt S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Facilities of the Minist_ ry f Health
MMH Centere         Hlealt hUits                        Hospitals __Ealthi Centers
.Governravji_    1977       1982   1977   1982   1985            1977         1982       1985(planned)  1977           1982         1985(planned)
(planned)  N.Bd    o    esN~                e         o     e 
ADEN                           ii1      9      1S   25            5 849    7    858   8   1158           1    20    1       20       1    20
LAHEJ*              5          10      51      71   87            5 334    6    487   7    547           1    20    4   130          7   190
Aj3YAN*        3           5      54      62   82            5 308    5    289   6    489           3    65      2    50        3   110
SHABWA                          4      51      47   56            3 135    4    210  4         210       1    20      1    20        2    60
HfPADRAMAWT*        4           6      79      92 114             5 385    6    521   6    521            7   150      9   180      11   220
El-MARiRA           1           2       8      10   20            1   88   1,      88   1       88       1    20      1    20        2    40
TOTAL              21          38   252       300  384           24 2099  29   2453  32   3012          14   295   18   420         26   640
*TOTAL in
Project Areas  12            21   184       225  283          15 1027  17   1297  19   1557           11   235   15   360        21   521.
Source: Ministry of Public Health, September 1982.



-73 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMFN                           Table 5
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Manpower Resources -- 1982
Admin-          Teaching                                   Governorates
Type          istration    Hospitals    IHMD    ADEN    LAHEJ    ABYAN    SHABWA    HADRAMAWT  EL MAHRA                 Total
1. Physicians
A. Specialists:
-Internists           -             5           -        2        -          -         -             1                         8
-Surgeons             -             9           -        -        -          -         -             1           -            10
-O.B. Gyn.            1             5           -        -        -          -         -             1           -
-Pediatrists          1             3           -        -        -          -
-Radiologists         -             -           -        -        -          -         -             -           -             -
-Pathologists         -             3           -        -        -          -         -             -           -
- Basic
Servises- -                     -          16
-Public Health        3             -           2        -        -          -         -             -           -             5
B. General Pract.       14            48            -       10        1          -         -           21           -             94
Subtotal        19             73          18       12        1          -         -           24           -            147
2.  Dentists              1              3           -        -        -          -         -            2           -              6
3.  Pharmacists           2              1           1        2       -           -         -            1           -              7
4. Medical (Health)
Assistants            5             4            7      18       99         70        26          157           11           397
5.  Nurses/Midwives    27              94           13       17      22          18         3           26           2           222
6. Community
Nurse Midw./
Senior CNM           31            34           -        9       32         27         3           27            6           169
7. Public Health
Inspectors            7             -           3        5        8          -         1           15            1            40
8. Lab Technician/
Assistant            10            55           4        9       20          9         6           68            5           186
9. Pharmacy
Technician/Asst.      5            16           2       20       18          4         4           48            3           120
10.  Dental Assistants   1                -           3        8       14          5         5           23           -             59
11. Asst. Public
Health Inspector    9               8           -        4       12          9         2           59            2           105
12. Asst. Nurse/
Nurse Practit./
Hospital Asst.       34           176           -      123      310        281       133          391          117         1,565
13. Radiographer/
Assistant             1             6           2        1       13          8         2           28            4            65
14.  PHC Worker            -              -           -        -       -           -         -            _           _
15. Anaesthesiol.
Technician            -            11           -        -        4          5         2             7           1            30
16.  Theater Techn.        -             25           -        -        6          6         2           23           2            64
17.  Physiotherapist       -              7           -        -        -          -         -            4           -             11
18.  Health Guide          -              -           -        -       43         17         -            -           -             60
19.  T.B.A.                -              -           -        -        3          8         -            -           -             11
TOTAL           152           513           53      228     605        467        189          903         154
Source: Ministry of Public Health, Sept. 1982



Table 6
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Capacity of IHMD - 1982-1986
Personnel Type                                 Duration       Intake     Total         Total.         Total Drop       Actual
(Years)     Capacity    Intake       Graduating          Rate        GrAduates
per Year   1982-1986   1982-1986         1982-1986        1976-80
I. ADEN
Medical Assistant                                3           60          300          260               13%             211
Professional Nurse                               3           50          250          208               17%             155
Dental Assistant                                3            25           75           55               27%              20
Public Health Inspector                         3            35         140            77               45%              30
Laboratory Technician                            3           35         175           108               38%              13
Radiographer                                    3            30          150           75               50%              10
Pharmacy Tecinician                              3           40          200          168               16%              38
Community Nurse Midwife                         2           30          150          125                17%            132
Assistant Nurse                                  2           50         250           180               28%             79 1/
Asst. Public Health Inspector                    2           35          175          150               14%              40
Professional Midwife                            1             8           40           40                0%              15
Asst, Laboratory Technician                    1.5           30 (1982) Dropped         30                -               7911
Asst. Radiographer                             1.5           25 (1982) Dropped         25                -               58
II. LAHEJ, ABYAN, AND HADRAMAWT
Asst. Nurse                                      2         160          800           560               30%
Asst. Pharmacy Technician                      1.5           25 (1982) Dropped         25                -               27
Asst. Laboratory Technician                    1.5           23 (1982) Dropped         23
SOURCE:  Office of Statistics, MOPH, Sept. 1982
I/Includes graduates frosi regional schools.



- 75 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YErEN                           Table 7
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Budget and Actual National Health  Expenditure
(YEMEN DINAR '0GOs)
Growth rate
Actual      Actual      ------------Budget------------              1977-1981
1977        1978      1979       1980       1981       %             % p. a.
(1981)
}. CaPital Expenditure
Headquarters (i-c.uding
Health Institute and           -          43.5       51.0        -
Al-Gamhoria Hosp.)
Governorates
1. Aden Gov.                     -           -          2.0        -
2. Lahe] Go.                     0.3         1.5        2.0        -         14.0
3. Abyan Gov.                    1.2         2.0        2.0        -         11.8
4. Shubwaa Go.                   0.1         0.8        3.0        -          -
5. Hadra-awt Go'v.               6.0         2.0       10.0        -
6. Alwahra  ,ov.                 0.1         0.4        1.0        -          -
TOTAL CAPITAL              7.7        50.2       71,0        -        25.8
II. Recurrent Expenditure
Headquarters
Personnel                  853,8      1083.5    1009.2    1265.1    1130.1
Drugs                        -         573.0      8.9.0     950.0    1200.0
Other                      758.1       505.1      838.1     575.0      704.0
Subtotal               1611.9      2161.6    2666.3    2790.1    3034.1         37
Health Institute (*)
Personnel                    -           -          -          -        80.7
Other                        -           -          -         -         76.5
Subtotal                   -           -         -          -        157.3
Al-Ganhoria Hosp. (*)
Personnel                    -           -          -       630.3      668.3                       6
Other                        -           -          -       257.1      352.2                     37
Sobrotal                  -           -          -        887.4    1020.5       13             15
Ader. Go,.
Personnel                    -           -        255.1     403.3      471.5
Other                        -           -         97.9      97.4      118.9
Subtotal                  -           -        353.0      500.7      590.4       7             29
Subtotal Aden         1612.0       2161.6    3019.3    41i7.2    4802.3                        28
Lahe4 Gov.
Persornel                 121.4        170.6      254.1     424.6      606.1
Other                      54.5         56.0       72.1      85.5      170.0
Subtotal               175.9        226.6      326.2      510.1      776.1      10             52
Abyan Gov.
Personnel                 148.6        195.3      264.0     505.6      472.0
Other                      65.0         74.7       92.9     141.2      169.0
Subtotal               213.6         270.0     356.9      646.8      641.0       8             38
Shubwaa Gov.
Personnel                  75.0        84.6       122.4     209.8      242.8
Other                      24.3        50.4        59.0      89.8      101.7
Subtotal                99.3       135.0       181.4      299.6      344.5       4             40
Hadran'awt Gov.
Persoanel                 269.4       346.5      401.0      690.2      852.1
Drugs                     130.0       145.0       220.0     250.0      290.0
Others                    104.5       102.7       165.0     161.2      187.2
Subtotal               503.9       594.2       786.0    1101.4    1329,3        17             28
Alhabra Gov.
Personnel                  30.6        33.8        60,6     102.3      115.3
Other                      13.1        21.9        35.7      45.9       67.7
Subtotal                43.7         55.7       96.3      148.2      183.0       2             46
Total Recurrent Expend.
Personnel                1499.0      1914.5     2366.4    4231.1    4639.1        58             35
Drug.                     130.0       718.0      1039.0    1200.0    1490.0       18              26
Other                    1019.6       810.9      1360.8    1453.2    1938.8       24             26
TOTAL RECURRENT       2648.6      3443.4      4766.2    6884.3    8067.9    100                31
Gov't Recurrent
Budget                 48939.6    64974.0    75637.6  103450.0  134474.2                         29
% share of Health         5.4Y        5.3%        6.3%      6.7%       6.0%
TOTAL HE.ALTH EXPEND.   2656.4      3493.7      4837.3    6884.4    8093.7
US$ EQUIVALENT ('000) 7699.8    10126.8    14021.,   19955.1   23490.4
(a)  Al Ganhoria Hospital was given financial autonomy in 1980, and the Health Institute in 1981.
SOURCE:  Mfnistry of Public Nealth



- 76 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                         -
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of 1981 National Recurrent health Budget
(YEMEN DINAR '000)
Al-Gamhoria   Aden   Lahej   Abyan   Shubwna   Hadramawt   Almahra                    %  of
Headquarters  Institute    Hospital    Gov.   Gov.    Gov.             Gov.        Gov,        Gov.    Totals   Total
~er,scnnln'
Perso;al emoluments         871.1          74,3         553.3    401.7  559.2   411.0         202.C       732.2         93.7
Ovzrt-Lle and shift           74.0          2.0          60.0      25.8   24.0    21.0         11.5        20.0          3.0
.l c.wance
,T2nsport allowance           8.0           1.0          30.0       5.4   17.0    15.0          6.0        10.0          1.5
Other allo\'anoes           175.0           3.5          25,0      38.6    6.0    25.0         23.0        88.9         17.0
3o,nus                         2.0          -             -         -       -        -          C.3         1.0          0.1
Subtotals                1130.1         80.8          668.3    471.5  606.2   472.0         242.8       852.1       115.3    4639.1       58
Du 's and Medical
b'edical appliances         872.4*          _                             154.8*  172.8*        -         290.0          -       1490.0      18
and drugs
Fco fcr Xospital
_  its and Trainees
Ra' icns                    153.0          48.5         180.3      29.1   90.0   100.0         60.0        6i.0         35.0      756.6       9
2   Ce Coscs
c.-station                   12.0           0.7           0.2       5.1   14.5       5.0        4.0        11.0         7.5
Ort-station                  27.0           -             -         -       -        -          -           1.2          -
stationery            10.0          3.0            8.0       8.9    5.1      6.0        3.0          5.5         2.0
Wa.er                        17.0           2.0          34.0       8.5    6.0       4.0        3.0        15.0          1.2
110.0          6.0          90.0      27.7   12.0    12.0          7.0        15.0          3.0
Post5 telephone and
telex  10.0   0.8           6.0       1.7    0.5       1.0        (.5         2.5          0.3
Ren r,                      26.5           -             -         -       0.6      2.0        C.4         -           1.8
Ucliftors                     14.0          1.0          12.0       8.9    5.5       5.2        3.5         7.2          1.2
-e; "gas)                     2.0           0.7           1.5       1.2    3.9       2.0        2.5         2.0         1.2
0'-ner orice expenses          9.5          1.0           7.0       7.5    5.0       4.0        5.5        12.0         4.0
Subtotal                  238.0         15.2          158.7      69.5   53.1    41.2         29.4        71.4        22.2      698. 7      9
, acnsorl Costs
Fuel                         30.0           3.0           7.5       7.5   10.3       9,0        4.3        15.0         4.5
Mai-lenance and spare
parts                      10.0           1.0           4.0       3.3    6.8       7.0        3.2         7.5         3.5
Subtotal                   40.0           4.0          11.5      10.8   17.1    16.0          7.5        22.5         8.0      137.4       2
-Msai-enance of Buildings
end _Equip ment~
V's-'intenance of medical     22.0          0.9           -          5.6    -        -          -           1.3          -
-nstruments
MaPintenance and re-         44.0           0.9           2.0       -       8.0    10.0         4.0        13.8          1.0
pair of buildings
(Hospitals)
Subtotal                   56.0           1.8           2.0       5.6    8.0    10.0          4.0        15.1         1.0      113.5       1
_c _:- Recuraent Expenses
Exac.ernal ledical
treatrent                 195.0          -              -         -       -        -          -           -           -
Scl3elacy Fund               12.0           -             -         -       1.0      1.0        -           0.7          1.0
Saudent stipends              -             3.8                -        -       -         -           -        _
3o's a nd classroom           -             0.4           -         -       -        -          -           -           -
materials
Student relocation
allosance                   -             2.4           -         -       -        -                      0.5         -
Other training costs                        0.4                     -       -        -                      -           -
-nsecticide                        -        -             -         0.4    0.8       0.8        0.8         -           0.5
Other                         -            -              -         -       -        -          -          11.0         -
Subtotal                  207.0           7.0           -         0.4    1.8       1.8        0.8        12.2         1.5      232.5       3
TOT-AL RECURRENT
EXK7NDITURES          2706.5         157.3         1020.5    586.9  931.0   813.8        344.5       1324.3       183.0    8067.g    100
'aission Estimcates.'
so.ccs: Ministry of Public Health



- 77 -
Table9
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Expenditure
(YD million)
Social
Total              Sectors            Health
1976                  39.2                5.8                 0.4
1977                  57.3               11.7                 0.8
1978                  59.8               11.2                 1.1
1979                  52.0               12.9                 1.1
1980                  74.2               17.5                 N/A
1981                 105.1               29.0                 N/A
1982 (revised        176.6               53.7                 6.1*
estimates)
* Source: Ministry of Public Health
Source: Ministry of Planning



- 78 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Table 10
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Assistance for the Health Sector
DONOR/AGENCY                 PROJECT NAME AND DURATION                                   AMOUNT (US$ million)
UNDP                         IHMD (1970-1975; 1976-1980)                                  1.5
UNFPA                        Maternity Centers and Family Planning                        2.2
(1975-1978)
UNCDF                        Health Facilities (PHC Units) (1977-1984)                    1.5
WHO                          Various, mostly disease-specific projects                    1.5 per annum
(continuous)
UNICEF                       Various (continuous)                                         N/A
WFP                          MCH Food Program (1968; 1980-1982)                           4.0
Islamic Bank                 PHC Units (1982-1984)                                        1.5
Arab Fund for Economic       Training (1982-1984)                                         0.12
& Social Development
Swedish Save The             MCH Services and Health Manpower (1979-1980;                 0.2 per annum
Children Fund                1981-1985)
Libya                        Rehabitilitation of Al-Gombouria Hospital                   13.1
Technical Assistance - Central Medical Stores               0.9
TB control (1980 only)                                      0.3
Kuwait                       Hospital Construction                                        2.9
Psychiatric Hospital                                        2.5
Technical Assistance                                        N/A
USSR                         Construction Pediatric Hospital (300 beds)                   N/A
Technical Assistance                                        N/A
Fellowships                                                 N/A
GDR                          Technical Assistance                                         N/A
Vaccines                                                    N/A
Fellowships                                                 N/A
Hungary                      Technical Assistance                                         N/A
Fellowships                                                 N/A
Cuba                         Technical Assistance                                         N/A
Fellowships                                                 N/A
Source: Ministry of Public Health, Sept. 1982



- 79 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                    Table 11
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Pharmaceutical Supplies b         lit
Category                HU-Type 1          HU-Type 2          HU-Type 3              HC
Drugs  Forms       Drugs  Forms       Drugs  Forms        Drugs  Forms
Analgesics               1       1           2       3          4       4           4       4
Antihelmintics            2      2           3      4           3       3           3       3
Sulfonamides             1       1          1       1           1      1            1       1
Antibiotics              1       1           4      5           4       5           4       5
Anti-malarials           1       2           1      2           1       3           1       3
Hemobiotics              1       1           2       2          2       2           2       2
Dermatologicals          3       3           7      7           8       8           8       8
Anti-allergies           1       2           2      3           2       3           3       4
Gastro intestinal        3       3           3      3           4       4           5       5
Ophthalmic               1       1          1       1           1       1           2       2
Anti-asmatic              1      1           1      1           1       1           2       2
Ant i-amoebic            -       -           1      2           1       2           1       2
Vitamins                 -       -           1      1           1       1           2       2
I.V. Fluids              -       -          -       -           1      1            2       2
Oxytocics                -       -          -       -          -       -            2       2
Surgical Desinfectants -         -          2       2           2       2           3       3
Dressing                 4       4           7      7           7       7           8       8
Total No.               20                 38                 45                   53
of Drugs
Source: Ministry of Public Health



- 80 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 1
Organizational Structure of Ministry of Public Health
_EMINISTER                              I
DIRECTOR                                                 DIRECTOR OF
DEPT. OF PIANNING                                      _ MINISTER'S
AND STATISTICS                                           OFFICE
AYEMENI RDD CRES- ATOVERSEAS
!CENT SOCIETY                                        _ SCHOLARSHIPS
FOR TIONAL DRUG    |                                     |ADVISORY
{ COMPANY   r                              ~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEE
i  OF                                                  OF PUBLIC HEALTH
P M TUBLIC HEALTA I                                         AFSAIRNC
COM'MITTEE OF   /
PERSONAL AFFAIRS               A                                 H O
AST. DEPtJN  MINISTER
FOR
PUBLIC HEAsLTH AFFAIRS
ASST. DEPUTY MINISTER         ADMINISTRTN_
FOR           _            AND                                                                   A
PHARMACEUTICAL AFFAIRS           FINANCE S
DIRECTOR, PREVENTIVE                  DIRECTING O
r-   ,               |~~~~~MEDICINE & CHAIRMAN,  H1      |         |HSITALS|
|CENiTRAL MEDICAL   l          ACCOUNTING || PHC COUNCIL                                         ,_I
STORES                     |DIVISION H                                            |I
PUBLIC PHAR'MACIES                                                       OF P RNSOT  
s   !         I  |            |  '.t.'~~L MAL:AR   OTO  l||DRCO  OF 
PRIVATE PHARMACIES                                                                                PUBLIC HEALTH
L  SERVICES IN
STATIONERY                     SCHISTOSOMIASIS                      SIX GOVTS.
|STORE AND  ,1              |      CONTROL
|LIBRARY                         _        
TUBERCULOSIS
CONTROL
SCHOOL HEALTH
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
HEALTH EDUCATION
EPI  
MCH & FAMILY PLANNINGH
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
Sept. 1982



- 81-
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC PEPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 2
Proposed Organizational Structure of Ministry of Public Health
Mi  ste
l                   ~~~~~Director General
Director,                                                 Planning & Stati~stics
Minister's Offc        _
_ Dire ct or,Gene ral, 
|  Society                                                _PrvnieMdce 
Overseas Scholarships
|Advisory Committee                                                     Boa rd
|National Drug raPHConi
| Company      
Director,
Personnal Management
Committee of                 Deputy Minister_
Personnel                        of_ 
Affairs                   Public Health                |        Director,
Administration and
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance
Assistant De,uyMnse,                                   Assistant Deputy-Minister,|
Pharmaceutica   far                                     Public Health  far 
l                         T~~~~~~~eaching
| PublaicePh Director General,                                                  hE   Hsals _
|Private PhlIHDand
iSchistosomiasis                  Directors, Public
Control                      Health Services, 6_
I            ~~~Governorates
|School Health 
Occupational 
| Health 
Education 
| E.P.I. 
|MCH and Family|
|Planning 
.Evionetal||
February 1903                                   Relth 



- 82 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 3
Proposed Organizational Structure for PHC
Director General,
Preventive Medicine
C__entral PHC Cuncil1
Director General
Planning & Statistics
Project Impleerogram Development
Unit                                   Lnd Evaluation Unit
Deputy-Minister
of
Public Health
Assistant Depuy-Mnitser
=                           ~~~~~~~~Pub li c Healt h Af fai rs
Public Health    PHC |                                            _  Training and
_  Services        l        General Director, PHC                Supervision Unit
Branches 6 Governorates
Healthrduationto_
M Sch  asomiasis
[7Controml 
jTuberculos is 
Control 
Occupational
F   Health
HPealth Education
|  EPI  
|MH&Family|
| Planningly
February 1983                                   Enirnealtha       _



________  ________________                                                                                                                                                     RED 16892~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD169
FEBRUARY 1983
AA-0                                                   44035'                                                   45000'          ~1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RE-PUBLIC OF- YEMEN                                                                                                                                     A HAN
HEALTHI DEVEL~OPME~NT PROJECT7 t40
LAHEJ                                                                                       KO4S4G HAZIA                                    q        A- VNHAS
AK//AIMA  ALP//bATHARIB/A                  L-EA            /
HEALTH  FACC LIflLLtFqru}                                                               / AT                                ADD/Aay-
Hoe h Urit ts To e   pgraded                                                 (AIAGRA AASA//EL\A MABAT4 
A  Heolth un.its to b  erpinnod                                                          A             4hI                  SH/ARAAH             'A ABABAA
Addii-ioo  Hoo//F  Unit fo bn --srst-ed                                                    RuAI/A4.  IRBSLA I
unde  Houlthr Proonc,                                                   /   AL >                                         AA--    -  ATI 
A     lieu tn <sirs I MCII Contort to be nus-toed                                                  Al AA/4KLA   4ZAn//AR                              A'KVA
uder ujNCDF Fi-nnng                               VAY~ > AZ/IREQ//RABAnHAaNO                                                   Pb         AK R
ESX-S, IG_H EALT H FAG LS E  S                                                          ____-  -        H -                     *     -1-
C  Gonorruroro Hos~~~~~~~~~~~uol   H ~~~TORBASH                                                                                Rh1AA
Hp~~~.p !.I,                                             Al-    HI-IS~~~~~~~AC/B  A  4Y A HAPR
*  Hn.p Ir~ Cn-rne-iurAr  -ALHIIIN/K-A/A                                                                                                                                                 Z
Q  Honits Centers undo  nnntttinrior    rT'                    MU~~~~~~~~~~SAYMIn                      A (A    Al
0  H..Ith Ceme,, -d., c-zt-t-  Ca                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~HABILEIN ATZk   ,
EXslTFING HiEALUH LNI[tS-                              .              -           tMusaymir                         Ae4   SA  AFI
A     Type I~L~"s  #A,-GH/A/I                                                              *                                       AC?A r BA                   -
A      T/E p1                                                                                                K      A  To,,            AD A/AN
AL    Type II                                                                                                              LA55UAOS'
o     Selected Tones                                                                      I         ~          1.L                       OIA
t      Airports                                                                               AA
M-riyo Bouder os                                                                                                                                           o o
J            A      4ArMAT/B/
/            S~~~~At TA/T//AH    1\       AL    H A U T        1   LSr
Ar7r/n'AH                                                                                 ALUSh
( .    MADARIBAHAN.NA                                                                                                                AZ          / AoHA3A
-13'00'                                                                                                             1                                   1AALAL    AAADFPYIrSA  I34003/
Am Nablych                            U~~~~~~~~*A N1-A
L~~~IYTARs                                             1MR5
A    AL DARA   I  A453
>---                                                                                                   <RAYON->  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  R
AL ARAH  t-                                                                                                                        V, E 114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soer
A Adee          AORAAWr'
Ass/f  of  A/en                                   rr.(rnnneunrer//eerronn/n;r,rnr,~~~ean.-rrnn,i30 ,4n r                              REPrSIArWA
Jr 0'  J                                                                         nerenres u unbecen nro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rUPETrERnieKunnenrueen13DJBTTI--IAC/
4'UnDo                                                  44,35'                                                   45r00r           ETH OFIA                   SM A LIA






IBRD 16893
45'30'                                           46'00  '                                           46.30'                                              47'00                  FBURY18
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
HEALTH  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (GIHA                                                                                                         H  A  B  W  A  H                                           7  a
ABYAN                                                            GA/IlAAN
0       1 0      20        30       4 0      5(                                GAB/RAH4Alhbe
KILOMETERS
/ "~~~~~7'EMLAHEO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A 41 GA/LA                                        ARRA/-ABA4                  AIKA8/
I#~~rRTII<   ~~AAM Fl/ALA]                                                                      ZA8AK/-A 4AL KAAAW/
14'0O  /                                     3HU80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAN47 N  AO                     DI                                                                Al Mohfidh
()  --~AIl/ADE~                      .AEM GA PA       M               u      A                         A   / 
>  /     ASSA/IA Al BA/LYAM4\                                                                                                               I MJKYRS,AZU5AI AZrUAI  C  SRR
/*   QARAH                                                      4ft  SAW~~~~~~~~~AIA  AWCH02  AJ  FA  4AO1  A R                                          M   A      AH F E D
13'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         mffAC*45                                         A                           H NA 9A
0              AL--AA WA LI'   l                          D RA l                                  U             D8  A   NARAt A9 /.                      o         A
A'11 [ATH
A
KA/AN        AA          U/          SZG/A RAAnV
Bk .ORA                                                                                      4IU4A
'~Ar -Iosn                ~                                   ~               graded                      A     Type AL  AOMAI
;.4  18A8At..                  -                                           and   UNCD9 Fitronning                       0 --el--ted TANAr9A                           YEE         3.' 19/ME3
IA]- //-AROW                                                                 EXISTINGHEALTH  FAcLITlZ-4t                          ArportWAADA
Z,/J/A/                                                       Goe         Alot  KHAsyita                                    AI                                               (oARAAtA[AJ[
BAis     J--   ItrntoalBunaRe 
Al                                                                                                                              of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Jear                                                    A      H:i-o' lL0ih Uruft, /MC  Centers to bel/  cnstructednA  ITyerntina                                                         MAndeAined
0o de,  UNC0b:F/FOi,-~.,ng0,F,/FtrF~,iF                 prsnaeainet
To, Aoip,                    43n31                                              46'00EA30                                                                          ETHOPIA                SO ALIAA.






r-  n-                                                                           _________  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRS) (6854
AP30'    IA GER ASA IA W 4Q'Q0i                            48'3Q'                            49'0                              A9.30iFBRJRYi8
A41-4849  A                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4/001HMA    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC~ OF YEMEN
41A 0A14
Al-AR/ED                                                                               SA NA.4   HEALTH   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
-    4                       *~~~~~~~~~~~Tarim    441A
800                                AlGA//ADA4       ~     ~      ~    ~       1844    ASS/IN//RI           1   0   A    M                     / VA,YHADRAMAWT
o  3HIBA 4               /4                                                                                       H E A~T H FAC I LlI IiLS Oroct
VAN W48                           I/I91L                                                                                                 siti-9ii ob  s  e
HAWON  w  n                 H~~AUr/A/A                                                                                               H-t r8i .b           -
A*                1/250             A//RAAD/I
GAD/IDA  WAD' B/-ill                                                                                  A      /eo1th  nil;! MCI Centers to no ott, clod~~~~~~~~~~~H. 1  ~    MCt    t, ~m b  w
AC(A4     Ot/OSAIS4 W Alt                                                                                                                        -do- UNE3f` Iiooo
Al MA 0HA44MA                                                                              aF/SICBIWrt ,
~5AH                                                                                       A     -yre T
HOrO,                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Type ST
GARIV       HoNoADWA441                                         AAACRAIN                                                                                   A
61400/ 8/-N AVeA/AN                                             ADAHAMAIN 
-15'30'                                                                                                  i\l ~~~~~~04404Mod,ye Boi-entis                                                                             A,,peien.nt,,
SANA A
4j/SUIJAIA                                        i      r'-
340/WAH          404CA
4ADDiAA/AO                             NI/-t~~~8IDA HOI 07                                                                                                            R  A   I  D  A   H 
BA08,4                                                                                                                                             &AA-SFDA, iU/8A
0001                      ~~~~~~~~Al KhUroiboh                                                                                        /                                                     i I/ /
ADDIS                            4~~~~~~~~~~liDA11
Mcula Motor                        .i        #        -*D/ 
V/kTti Al 41/54/1944  *  At 04,  MAl 4/0/            iHM
""N                       ~~~~~~YEWDN4
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~4A9 AI -MO//AMAVAIN K/DMAI
1,  0//Aol                                                                    I                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A jIAR       
14'30'                                                KA        4MOMVACA                                         ' AlAl MuIcoIIo                                                                       SA4  [i   AABA 
A/DAD//PA~ ~     MfHAO 844 410/'RoCJ                                                                                                            2                                   OMAN
asna'ah                                        IANCZI448001                                                                    '-                           Al
S H A B V/A H                                                                     (9  2030   47  07                                            t8 <1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R 
Ade
Oo'~",,,,o,TinTo ii to~iioio nTi' e Onioo no,-A40,
48'00                                                         491)0                                                                50'00'        ETHIOPA ,SO)MA LIA/
_____                                                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'4'3'5  TIP



