OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS    REDIT NUMBER 1377 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         7u 11  ,1 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1377 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            %               , 1983, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Barrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has obtained (i) a grant from the World
Health Organization (hereinafter called WHO) in an amount equiva-
lent to six hundred sixty thousand dollars ($660,000); and (ii) a
grant from the United Nations Children Fund (hereinafter called
UNICEF) in an amount equivalent to four hundred thousand dollars
($400,000), to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements entered into between
the Borrower and WHO and UNICEF respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the As3ociation being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the PGen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings ther:in set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "MOPH" means the Ministry of Public Health of the Bor-
rower;
(b) "HIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be
established within MOPH pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project pre-
paration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to (i) an exchange of letters dated April 18, 1981 and
May 6, 1981 between the Borrower and the Association; and (ii) an
exchange of letters dated September 9, 1981 and November 15, 1981
between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "NBY" means the National Bank of Yemen, established and
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 37 of 1969, as amended to
the date of this Agreement, and any successor thereof; and
(e) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to seven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and


﻿- 3 -
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in NBY
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to "time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable,semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending April 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MOPH with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate public health care, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of
carrying out the Project, establish within MOPH and thereafter
maintain the PIU with organization and terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than October 1, 1983: (i)
appoint to PIU a project coordinator, an accountant and two tech-
nical staff, all with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) make avail-
able to PIU the services of a qualified architect or engineer
within MOPH.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts B and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- .5
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall appoint, not later than
October 1, 1983, an adequate number of qualified staff to the
Program Development and Evaluation Unit, the Training and Super-
vision Unit and the Health Education Directorate as well as two
health education officers in Lahej and Abyan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause 67.l goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿-6-
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause PIU to complete by December 31, 1985, a mid-term
evaluation of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association a copy of the above mid-term
evaluation promptly upon its completion; and
(c)  thereafter take all action necessary to carry out the
recommendations of said evaluation as agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall award the fellowships to
suitably qualified candidates in accordance with criteria for
selection and award acceptable to the Association, after approval
by the Association of the training programs and locations pro-
posed under said fellowships.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause MOPH:
(a) to recruit every year, starting in 1983, at least 30
candidates from the Lahej, Abyan and Hadramawt governorates for
training as community midwives at the Institute of Health Man-
power Development; and
(b)   to assign them upon their graduation to their res-
pective districts of origin.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying o-t the Pro-
ject or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
cause PIU: (i) to maintain separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure;
(ii) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all re-
cords (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are. requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) to enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause PIU to: (i) have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than nine months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associq-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inform-
ation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times cause all
buildings, equipment and furniture of facilities provided, and
the vehicles acquired, under the Project to be properly main-
tained and all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made


﻿- 8 -
in accordance with appropriate technical and engineering prac-
tices.
(b) For that purpose, the Borrower shall take all such
action satisfactory to the Association as shall be necessary to
ensure that regular and adequate provision is made in MOPH's
budget for each fiscal year, starting fiscal year 1984, for the
financing of maintenance of buildings and equipment.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that:
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has established PIU in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The date   O c-r>b{    12 6- ,c     is hereby
specified,for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditiona:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                     Telex:
TAKHTEET                          2289 TAKHTEET AD
AD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By  01AL0,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        P1,LC.C,iq-
tc   4    Regional Vice President
Europe, NTddle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               3,400,000         70%
(2) Equipment,                  900,000         100% of foreign
furniture,                                 expenditures,
materials                                  100% of local
and vehicles                               expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'                500,000         100% of foreign
services and                               expenditures
fellowships
(4) Drugs for the               500,000         100%
health units to
be constructed
under Part A.1
(b) and (c) of
the Project and
for distribu-
tion through
the health
guides to be
trained under
Part C of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) In-service train-           500,000          100%
ing of health
assistants,
training of
health guides
and operating
costs of the
training and
supervision
teams under
Part C of the
Project
(6) Initial Deposit             200,000         Amount due under
in Special Account                          Section 2.02 (c)
to pre-finance                             of this Agreement
items under
Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4)
and (5) above
(7) Refunding of                247,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advances                              of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 753,000
TOTAL               7,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(c) the term "operating costs of the training and supervi-
sion teams" means the aggregate amounts expended for expenditures
on account of salaries, subsistance allowances and transportation
costs of the four training and supervision teams under Part C of
the Project.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's


﻿- 14 -
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the health status of the
population  in  the   three  governorates  of  Lahej, Abyan    and
Hadramawt. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Basic Health Service Facilities
1.   Extending the coverage and network of health units
through:
(a) upgrading and repair of 139 health units;
(b) reconstruction and replacement of 39 health units;
and
(c) construction of 16 additional health units.
2.   Equipment, furniture, drugs and supplies for the 55 new
and 186 existing health units as well as additional
equipment for the 15 existing health centers.
Part B:   Health Education
Support of the health education program through:
1.   the production of eight films on basic health themes
and the purchase of other films;
2.   the  provision  of  equipment   for  the  production  of
audio-visual and printed materials; and
3.   the provision of short-term technical assistance and
fellowships for overseas training.
Part C:   Training
Establishment and operation of four Training and Supervision
Teams (TSTs) to upgrade the skills of existing health assistants
and train health guides, including the provision of supplies and
vehicles.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Health Services Management
Strengthening of MOPH's management and project implementa-
tion capabilities through:
1.   the provision of technical assistance and overseas
training fellowships; and
2.   tle equipping and furnishing of the offices of the Pro-
ject Implementation Unit, the Directorate for Health
Education and the three Regional Directorates, includ-
ing the provision of vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped in large
packages so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preferen.e for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described i - Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Peo-
ple's Democ.atic Fepublic of Yemen may be granted a margin of
preference .n accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Peo-
ple's Democratic Republic of Yemen if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufactur-
ing cost of such goods includes a value added in
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 19 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of the health units
under Part A 1 (b) and (c) of the Project may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods: (i) which cannot be grouped or
which the Association agrees are needed quickly; and (ii) which
are estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 each,
may be procured in accordance with such procurement procedures of
the Borrower as are satisfactory to the Association; provided
that, except as the Association may otherwise agree, contracts
for goods to be entered into under this paragraph shall: (A) be
awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers
or manufacturers of such goods; and (B) not exceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $250,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for goods awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding and all contracts for civil
works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 20 -
require the As.;ociation's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders,
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
tco the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it


﻿- 21 -
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   The upgrading and repair of the health units under Part A 1
(a) of the Project shall be carried out by force account, pro-
vided that the costs of the force account works 6o not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $50,000 in Aden, $500,000 in the
Lahej governorate, $300,000 in-the Abyan governorate and $800,000
in the Hadramawt governorate.
2.   Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph C.1, the con-
struction of isolated new health units under Part A 1 (b) and (c)
may be carried out by force account; provided that (i) the Asso-
ciation agrees that no satisfactory bids have been received; and
(ii) the costs of the force account works do not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $200,000 in each of the three gov-
ernorates.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and
(5) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and depo-
sit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and
on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Asso-
ciation at such intervals as the Association shall specify, the
Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be re-
quired to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures,, but only to the extent that the amount of any such depo-
sit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the ini-
tial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under the respective Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have


﻿- 23 -
been justified by the evidence supporting, the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) for the Project, minus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be
sooner.   Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) for the Project shall follow such proce-
dures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower
and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be
made only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,


﻿- 24 -
ref und to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  I         day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


