Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20428
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE WOMEN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT
WID
JULY 27, 2000
Human Resources Development Group IV
AFCO6
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1999)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
8Birr = US$ 1.0
US$ 1.0 = 8.0 Birr
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACORD            Agency for Cooperation and Research in   NGO         Nongovenmental Organizations
Development
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy              NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CCU              Central Coordinating Unit                NSC        National Streering Committee
CERTWID          Center for Education, Research and Training   PAD    Project Appraisal Document
of Women in Development
CRDA             Christian Relief and Development         PHRD        Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
Association
DCA              Development Credit Agreement             PIM         Project Implementation Manual
EA               Environmental Assessment                 PIU         Project Implementation Unit
ESRDF            Ethiopian Social & Rehabilitation        PMR         Project Management Report
Development Fund
FDRE             Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia   PRAs       Participatory Rural Appraisals
GF               Grassroots Fund                          PY          Program Year
GIF              Grassroots Initiatives Fund              RCU         Regional Coordinating Units
GOE              Government of Ethiopia                   RCU/ZCU/ Regional Coordinating Units/Zonal Coordinating
WCU        Units/Wereda Coordinating Units
GMT              Grassroots Management Training           RSU         Regional Streeing Committees
GMTP             Grassroots Management Training Project   R/Z/WCU  Regional/Zonal/Wereda Coordinating Units
HSDP             Health Sector Development Program        SA          Special Accounts
IAPSO            United Nations Interagency Procurement   SOEs        Statement of Expenditures
Services Office
ICB              International Competitive Bidding        TA         Technical Assistance
IDA              International Development Association    TOR         Terms of Reference
IDF              Institutaitonal Development Fund         TSE         Technical Support Experts
IEC              Information, Education and Communication   WAO       Women's Affairs Office
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative    WB          World Bank
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan             WID         Women In Development
M&E Component Monitoring & Evaluation Component           WDIP        Women's Development Initiatives Project
MIS              Management Information System            WG          Women's Group
MTR              Mid-Term Review                          WGs         Women's Groups
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:         Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager/Director:       Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Christine Pena



ETHIOPIA
WID
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
:2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      8
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                               11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                             17
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           62
MAP(S)



ETHIOPIA
WID
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: June L 5, 2000                              Team Leader: Christine Lao Pena
Country Manager/Director: Oey Astra Meesook       Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P050342                               Sector(s): SS - Social Sector Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan        1 Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee     [ Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0 M equivalent (SDR 3.8 M)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                   Service charge: 0,75%
F14anclnPtan:    so r"o                                       oi        -- -n             Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.00           0.70           0.70
IDA                                                            0.10           4.90           5.00
GOVERNMENT OF ITALY                                            0.00           1.80           1.80
MULTIPLE DONORS                                                0.50           0.00           0.50
Total:                                                         0.60           7.40           8.00
Borrower: FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Responsible agency: ACTIVITIES WILL BE IMPLEMENTED BY SELECTED INTERMEDIARIES
Address: Ethiopia
Contact Person: H.E Tadelech Haile-Michael, Minister in Charge of Women's Affairs, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Tel: 251-1-557794 or 552044               Fax: 251-1-552030                Email:
Address: Women's Affairs Office, Prime Minister's Office, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Christine Pena
Tel: 202 4723-5421             Fax: 202 473-8107               Email: cpena@worldbank.org
Address: AFTH4, World Bank, 1818 H Street, NW Washington, DC 20433
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYWUS$M):
FY          2001         202         2003        2004        200
Annual     0.4           0.7         1.2         1.4         1.2
Cumulative     0.4          1.1          2.3        3.7         4.9
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 08/15/2000  Expected closing date:  08/30/2005
OCS PAD Fc.r R.v M.h, ZXOO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Within Ethiopia's overall developmental strategy, the proposed Women's Development Initiatives
Project (WDIP), a Learning and Innovation credit, aims to test methodologies to enhance the social and
economic welfare of households in selected poor districts by improving and increasing women's
opportunities through increased skills, productivity, and income.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
For the purpose of annual joint reviews and supervision missions between the Bank and GOE, the
following key indicators have been selected:
(1)    Input indicators
(a)    number of applications and % accepted
(b)    % of funds disbursed
(c)    average beneficiaries' contribution as percentage of total cost
(2)    Process indicators
(a)    Project processing time compared to the standard schedule of submission to financing,
financing to implementation and implementation to completion
(b)    administrative costs as percentage of project costs
(c)    % of progress/supervision reports submitted on time
(3)    Output indicators
(a)    number of women groups established
(b)    number and % of female and male beneficiaries reached by IEC messages/campaigns in
each of the six thematic areas as specified in the project implementation manual (PIM)
(c)    number and % targeted beneficiaries who have received Grassroots Management Training
and skills training
(d)    number and % of projects completed
(e)    % of funds repaid by individual beneficiaries to their group
(f)    Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with group-level and community-level outcomes
(g)    Number of networking/coordinating meetings held at Woreda, Zonal, Regional, and
National levels
For more detailed project monitoring, the following proposed indicators have been selected and
categorized into four main groups: input (to track what resources were used), process (to track efficiency of
resource utilization), output (to track outcome of resource usage), and sustainability (to track
organizational, economic, institutional and behavioral sustainability). Initially sustainability will be
assessed in terms of "Yes/No" indicators. It is envisioned that as the project develops and capacity for
MIS and monitoring and evaluation is strengthened, that more refined ratings scales will be developed.
- 2 -



A.    Summary efficiency and performance indicators
These indicators will be used to provide an overall assessment of the efficiency with which the
project was implemented and its effectiveness in achieving its intended impacts. The following sections
present specific indicators for assessing each major component of the project. Where appropriate,
indicators will be compared to the final targets for the project and the projected progress for a particular
time period.
Summary Input indicators:
1. % of funds disbursed (by each component)
2. Number of grassroots management training courses given
3. Number of skills development training courses given
4. Average group investment as % of total cost
5. Number of Intermediaries, Facilitators, and Technical Support Experts used
6. Number of IEC campaigns launched in total and by thematic areas
Summarv Process indicators:
I. Compliance with targeting criteria (absence of micro-finance institutions, access to economic
infrastructure, availability of intermediaries)
2. Number of requests received
3. Number of requests approved (in total and by sector) and volume of grants compared to targets
4. Processing time compared to established standards
5. Proportion of the target population who received training (grassroots management and skills
development).
6. Total number of women who have been reached by at least one project component
7. Administrative cost as proportion of total cost
8. Number of projects completed
9. Proportion of projects completed within acceptable cost and time limits
10. % of Progress reports submitted on time
Summarv Output/Impact Indicators:
I. Number of women who have acquired new skills
2. Number of women who have improved their existing skills
3. Number of women who actively take part in micro-credit projects after training
4. Number of groups created or strengthened compared to target
5. Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with group-level and community-level outcomes
6. % of microenterprises managed by women
7. % of funds repaid by individual beneficiaries to their group
8. % of profits generated compared to grants for raw materials and inputs
9. % increase in assets two years after project intervention (excluding direct assistance)
Summary Sustainabilitv indicators
1. Number of women's groups which continue to operate after project closing
- 3-



2. Number of economic initiatives (group and individual) which continue to operate after project closing
3. Number of outside support groups (intermediary agencies, etc.) which continue to maintain contact
with the communities after the close of the project.
4. Number of IEC initiatives which continue to influence group/community behavior after project closing
B.    Progress in the creation and sustainability of groups
I .    Number of groups created
2.    Number of groups which have received grassroots management training
3.    Number of groups which have submitted action plans
4.    Number of action plans approved
5.    Number of groups to whom funds have been disbursed (tranche 1, 2, 3 if given in tranches)
6.    Group projects started
7.    Individual projects approved by groups
8.    % of funds repaid by individual beneficiaries to their group
9.    Number of projects completed
10.   Number of exit reports prepared
11.   Number of groups still operating 6, 12 and 24 months after project closing
C.    Effectiveness of the IEC component
Within each thematic area
o      Gender and development
o      Legal literacy
*      Nutrition
*      Harmful traditional practices
*      Family planning
*      Environment
*      AIDS
A maximum of five key messages will be identified, and the effectiveness of the program in
communicating these messages will be assessed in terms of:
1.    The number of people in the community who have received the message (attended the theater
groups, attended meetings, etc.)
2.     % of male and female beneficiaries reached
3.    Level of understanding of the project and its objectives
4.    The number of people who have understood the message
5.    The number of people who have changed their attitudes as a result of the message
- indicators 3 to 5 will be measured using participatory/impact assessments
D.    Capacity Building
1.     Indicators for assessing capacity building at the grass-roots level
a.    Number of grass-roots management courses given
-4 -



b.    Number of groups who received courses (more than one group might participate in the same
course)
c.    Number of individuals who received courses
d.    Proportion of target groups who receive skills development training
e.    End of course assessments covering:
(i)    The effectiveness of the training methods
(ii)    What was leamed
(iii) The confidence of the group to carry out its tasks
f.    Number of women who have acquired new skills
g.    Number of women who have improved their existing skills
h     Number of women who actively take part in micro-project development after taking training
2.    Effectiveness of the technical assistance provided to the communities
a.    Number of groups/individuals who have received support from intermediary agencies
b.    Number of groups/individuals who have received support from technical specialists
c.    Number of individuals who have received skills training
d.    Number of groups which have facilitators
e.    Number of studies undertaken to assist in the selection and design of micro-projects
3.    Management of the grass-roots fund
a.    Number of groups to whom grants have been disbursed
b.    Total volume of grants disbursed
c.    Total group contribution as % of grant/loans
d.    Maintenance of initial assets
f.    Increase in volume of working capital
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1 7009-ET         Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/09/97
The Ethiopia CAS supports economic growth and employment creation as the primary means of
reducing poverty. It also supports the use of targeted programs and safety nets to assist the most
vulnerable groups in society. One of its key strategies is to improve the status of women through both
economic and social means. It strongly supports investments in human capital as one of the most
sustainable ways to achieve economic growth through a more productive population. The CAS includes
this project as part of its assistance strategy for gender-balanced poverty alleviation in Ethiopia. It will be
important to ensure that WDIP is implemented as a coherent part of the overall program of Govemment,
Bank, and other donor-financed activities aimed at poverty reduction with a focus on women's activities
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Despite their contribution to the country's economy, mainly in the agricultural and the informal
sectors, and given the importance of their social role, women in Ethiopia do not have equitable access to
economic resources. The gender dimension of poverty in Ethiopia and the low levels of women's access to
education and health services, employment opportunities, and participation in the political/legal activities in
the country, are reflected in the welfare indicators provided in Table 1. These indicators are also validated
by the participatory rural appraisals (PRAs) that have been conducted in most regions in Ethiopia.
- 5 -



Different Socio-economic Roles of Men and Women Women disproportionately bear the burden of
poverty in Ethiopia. Women are responsible for all household chores, in addition to support they provide in
agriculture and livestock production. This is mainly a result of the gender-based division of labor,
characteristic of many traditional societies, and exacerbated by the poor state of the environment and the
lack of appropriate technology. Only 18 percent of the population have access to clean water. Fuelwood
and cow dung remain the main sources of domestic energy for 95 percent of the Ethiopian population.
Women, therefore, spend a large part of their day collecting water and searching for fuelwood. The lack of
appropriate technology also results in the daily pounding and grinding of grain, a laborious task identified
by women as consuming a large part of their day. Together with other activities, this results in rural
women typically working 15-18 hours a day. Women have little or no opportunities and time to access
training/technical assistance and credit, thus they are often unable to increase their income to overcome
subsistence-level livelihoods. To assist them in their arduous activities, women keep their children, in
particular girls, from school, perpetuating the vicious cycle of poverty for women. Because of these
differentiated roles, the impact of development interventions is also different and, in most cases,
gender-neutral development interventions fail to benefit women effectively, and in some cases even
adversely affect women's access to economic resources.
National Policy for Women. The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) has demonstrated its
commitment to addressing these issues and to the equitable socioeconomic development of women with the
establishment of the National Policy for Women in 1993 and the promulgation of the new Constitution in
1994. The National Policy for Women aims to institutionalize the political and socioeconomic rights of
women by creating appropriate structures in government institutions so that public policies and
interventions are gender-sensitive and geared towards ensuring equitable development for all Ethiopians.
Table 1. The Gender Dimension of Poverty in Ethiopia
Indicators                        Males               Females
Gross primary enrollment rate, 1997 (percent)  48                 27
Gross secondary enrollment rate, 1997 (percent)  13               1 0
Adult illiteracy rate (percent)                59                 71
Malnutrition (stunting, under 6 years) (percent)  65.2            63.8
Malnutrition (wasting, under 6 years) (percent)  10.5             11.1
Life expectancy (years)                        49                 52
Maternal mortality (per 100,000 births)        NA                 500-700 (450-500*)
% of Attended Births                           NA                 10 (34*)
% of candidates during 1995 election           87                 12.1
Note: *SSA average; NA = not applicable
Sources: WB Genderstats, Social Sector Report (1998); WB HSDP document (1998)
Implementing the National Policy for Women: As discussed in the 1998 Government/WB Report on
Implementing the Ethiopian National Policy for Women: Institutional and Regulatory Constraints, the
actual implementation of the Women's Policy faces immense challenges. The devolution of administrative
powers to the regional authorities creates both opportunities and difficulties for the implementation of the
National Policy. Opportunities arise in that interventions can now be geared to address region-specific
concerns; yet difficulties remain because of the capacity constraints in administrative and service delivery
at the regional and lower administrative levels. Considerable inter-regional variations further increase the
complexity of designing and delivering services in a gender-sensitive fashion, as does the fact that regional
-6 -



development plans are largely gender-neutral. Interventions that do target women tend to be ad hoc and
self-standing projects with fairly standard processes of delivery through formal institutions such as
cooperatives and kebeles -- institutions that women, especially those in rural areas, tend not to actively
participate in. The 1998 Government/WB report grouped the constraints to successful WID policy
implementation into three main categories:
(i) Relatively lower participation of women in development interventions: Women are unable
to benefit equitably from existing opportunities because of a number of social, economic, and
technical reasons. While a number of these constraints stem from social and cultural norms, many
of them are also generated by project design and delivery mechanisms that are insensitive to
gender-based constraints. Also, women are usually not part of formal groups such as cooperatives
and associations. If at all, they tend to be part of informal and traditional groups; these groups are
rarely involved in development activities.
(ii) Gender disparity in legal literacy. Though some provisions in the 1960 Civil Code of
Ethiopia are discriminatory and violate the provisions of the 1994 Ethiopian Constitution, there are
a number of legal provisions that benefit women in significant ways. However, legal literacy is
very low and most women are unaware of the positive provisions. This is a key reason for the
non-enforcement of laws in personal disputes. Access to dispute resolution is also limited by a
number of factors.
(iii) Institutional issues: Inadequate definition of responsibilities and roles of women's offices, lack
of institutional capacity, and insufficient budget contribute to the ineffective and inefficient use of
resources, as well as to lack of adequate attention to mainstreaming gender issues.
Strategy to address the above constraints. While the institutional issues will be discussed
further and addressed in a holistic manner through the ongoing sector work on
Regionalization/Decentralization, this pilot project will primarily tackle issues related to women's
participation in development interventions at the grassroots levels, and increasing investment in
human capital. The project is benefiting from the participatory/consultative workshops organized
by WAO to discuss the proposed project with key stakeholders such as the regions and NGOs, as
well as ongoing project preparation activities being undertaken through the Policy and Human
Resource Development (PHRD) Grant. The Government-requested PHRD Grant has been
instrumental in the development and pre-testing of the project manuals [organizational
management, IEC (GIF promotion, health including HIV/AIDS and harmful traditional practices,
nutrition, legal literacy, and environment), financial management, MIS, and monitoring and
evaluation]. It has also supported the Ministry of Justice's activities related to a review of the
Family Law and improving legal literacy. In addition, WDIP is also benefiting from the
Institutional Development Fund (IDF), which has been useful in providing technical assistance on
capacity building assessments, technical studies to assist WAO in preparing economic profiles of
the most viable economic activities of women in pilot regions as background information for the
GIF, and subsequent institutional strengthening activities such as workshops on community
mobilization and gender-sensitization and skills development training programs; as well as study
tours to China and India to learn how these countries have promoted women's income generating
activities, particularly those related to handicrafts. Linkages between the activities undertaken
through the PHRD Grant and IDF have been maintained through frequent consultations between
WAO, PHRD and IDF staff. Moreover, for a number of months, the IDF technical consultant has
worked with the Ethiopia Resident Mission on gender issues and acted as the liaison between the
IDF and WDIP teams to ensure effective coordination of strategies and activities.
- 7 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
Lessons Learned from Other Projects
*   Based on ESRDF's experience, components with community participation require more time and
resources to implement because of the need for capacity building. The project, therefore, has estimated
the number of microprojects conservatively, and estimates about nine to twelve months of promotion
and capacity building activities after credit effectiveness. Simplicity in arrangements will be a critical
factor to effective implementation. To the extent possible, the structure and arrangements have been
kept simple in this project. Furthermore, a clear project implementation manual (PIM) will help to
clarify roles and responsibilities to ensure institutional coherence.
*   Increased commitment and sustainability through community participation and contribution. To
receive assistance, women's groups will be asked to provide upfront savings (at least 10% of total
assistance being sought, 5% of which can be in kind).
*   In the Gambia Women in Development (WID) Project, an important lesson learned was the need for
integrating traditional and modem communication methods of IEC (for example, via theatre and radio).
WDIP will combine both traditional and modem communication channels in order to be most effective.
In addition, IEC and promotion measures are being undertaken to provide information to men and
women of poor households in poor districts so that women's increased participation may, to the extent
possible, be a joint decision of the household rather than being seen as one addressing solely women's
concerns.
*  The regional background studies for the 1998 WID report indicate the need for increased capacity at
the center and regional government levels, especially the Women's Affairs Bureaus, to effectively
supervise the implementation of the project, as well as other activities. Both IDF and PHRD Grants
are being used to strengthen supervision and implementation capacity. For example, experts on
capacity building, monitoring and evaluation, community mobilization are being hired to provide
technical assistance in project preparation.
-   WID projects in the Gambia and Cote d'Ivoire experienced mixed results because of inadequate
monitoring and evaluation systems and a lack of baseline data. Thus, it is important to have a good
monitoring system that will help to fine-tune project implementation mechanisms, as well as baseline
data for the benefiting group before assistance is provided in order to be able to measure the impact of
each intervention. A reporting format for each WDIP micro-project will be ready and functional for
this purpose before assistance is provided to women's groups. An MIS and monitoring and evaluation
manual and system have also been prepared and will be pre-tested and finalized before project
effectiveness.
*   Pilot activities will benefit from local knowledge. The Gambia WID project noted that the private
sector often has a comparative advantage over Government with regard to piloting innovative activities
and tailoring activities to different groups. Community based organizations, indigenous NGOs, church
groups, etc., as intermediaries, will be well-placed to solicit the different needs of women's groups and
provide locality-specific technical assistance.
- 8 -



Development Issues to be Addressed:
F'ocus on cross-sectoral linkages. If the position of women is to be addressed as articulated in the
Ethiopian National Policy for Women, it will have to be done in a holistic manner. Linkages within and
across sectors is a critical aspect that will contribute to the achievement of stated objectives, gender being a
cross-cutting issue. Specifically, the proposed project would assist targeted women's groups in selected
poor districts (based on poverty information from regional governments) to improve their social and
economic status through an inter-sectoral program of assistance as well as provide them with information
to increase their awareness about social and economic matters. Thus, the success of this project will lie in
the ability to tap other resources available to ensure that the ultimate package of assistance provided to
women's groups addresses a variety of critical constraints that hinder their participation in development
activities, (for example, lack of time, control over resources, skills, and access to credit).
Three steps will be taken to increase the chances that a package of assistance will be provided:
*   regional steering committees will be charged with the responsibility to ensure that the package of
assistance provided to women's groups is a holistic and well designed program of interventions. For
example, the ESRDF Regional Manager will also be a member of this committee, in order to
coordinate the provision of labor saving devices, wherever possible, to ensure that women's time is
ireed up from tedious and burdensome daily chores for other more productive activities;
*   the project will finance the capacity building of a variety of regional stakeholders and staff of sectoral
bureaus to integrate gender concerns into the work of their line ministries, thereby increasing
opportunities for women to receive benefits from other ongoing activities; and
*   the project will be implemented through intermediaries who will be able to operate and coordinate
outside individual sectors and bring in an inter-sectoral perspective.
Strong and supportive information, education and communication program It is also critical
that the package of assistance be provided in the context of a persuasive and effective IEC program.
Therefore, WDIP would also finance some new and innovative Information, Education and Communication
(IEC) programs to increase community awareness of important health and education issues, as well as main
concerns/issues identified in the PRAs. For example, nutrition, hygiene, harmful traditional practices,
HIV/AIDS, legal awareness, and environmental conservation practices will be emphasized. In addition,
the IEC program would also include strong legal messages that communicate the rights of both men and
women under the existing Constitution and the Civil Code. A PHRD grant is currently supporting the
Ministry of Justice's activities which include the study and revision of the Family Law, legal awareness
workshops to inform and engage regional policy-makers and other stakeholders, and the formulation of key
legal messages to be delivered to women's groups through WDIP's IEC component. WDIP will also select
and fund female role models who have made noteworthy achievements in different fields (for example, in
agriculture and business) who will serve as promotional and inspirational spokeswomen as part of the IEC
component. The IEC component will be developed in collaboration with the IEC experts involved in the
Health and Education Sector Development Programs.
Linkages with the private sector. The national and regional steering committees will also aim to
establish pilot linkages between the more successful women's groups with some private sector entities.
This may initially be possible, for example, if a private sector entrepreneur, in the business of
manufacturing honey or exporting flowers, could be linked up with the women's groups. The project could
support the majority of expenses necessary for training, purchase of equipment, and a first set of inputs to
-9-



facilitate the production either jointly or collectively of either honey or flowers which would then be bought
by the entrepreneur at an agreed price, provided required quality is maintained. The private investor would
be expected to contribute at least 25% of the total start-up costs for these types ofjoint ventures.
Linkages with the social sector. In order to address constraints facing women in a holistic
manner, in addition to IEC messages, the Regional Steering Committees will facilitate and ensure that
regional bureaus or other organizations design and target social and economic services to these groups of
women. These will include messages on nutrition, home economics, health issues including harmful
traditional practices and HIV/AIDS, assistance on agricultural inputs, literacy and numeracy courses, and
other such activities.
Linkages with environmental activities. Women's groups will be encouraged to undertake
environmental activities in line with the National Environmental Policy. Any Women's Group that may
wish to undertake environmental activities (for example, soil conservation, social forestry such as care and
cultivation of trees, establishment of nurseries) may include them in their action plan. As an additional
incentive, funds may be allocated for this over and above the ceiling for individual groups.
Project Issues to be Tested before Expansion
Administration The project's budget for overhead takes into account the rather slow and difficult process
of reaching and training diverse constituencies in communities that are generally located in remote areas.
Based on experiences of The World Bank Institute, it should be expected that project administrative costs
will remain high for at least the first two years. The experience of NGOs and the Ethiopian Rehabilitation
Development Fund also suggest that a ceiling of 20 percent for overhead costs might be more realistic than
the current 10 percent ceiling for administrative costs specified in the ESRDF project's operational manual.
The administrative costs will need to be closely monitored.
Women's Groups and Intermediaries
o   Size of women's roups. The size of the women's groups must be kept at an optimum level to ensure
cohesiveness and support for each other. At the same time, cost effectiveness is increased if the groups
are larger. A balance has to be struck. This LIL will be able to test how groups of different sizes
ranging from 1O to 30 members perform.
*   Capacity of women to participate in development activities will be another key issue. While this will be
addressed through a planned and systematic capacity building program appropriately sequenced to
maximize the impact of project funding, the costs and corresponding benefits will need to be closely
monitored.
*   The majority of rural Ethiopian women lead a life that appears more difficult than their counterparts in
Sub-Saharan African countries like Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania. Cultural and traditional restraints
are exacerbated by the state of the environment in Ethiopia, leaving women in most parts struggling for
survival. Within this context, how can development assistance be provided in a meaningful manner?
Will men be supportive of such means of enhancing household welfare? In addition, existing formal
organizations do not have significant female membership; this particularly constrains women's access
to development opportunities since assistance is normally delivered through these organizations. Can
the project provide incentives to such organizations. in the form of technical assistance and training
support, to increase the percentage of women members and agree to activities that would also benefit
women?
- 10 -



*   Is there an adequate number of intermediaries to implement such a program? What are their training
and capacity building needs?
Sustainability
*   Sustainability. What are the issues related to sustainability of these grassroots activities (for example,
do the women's projects continue to operate even after the project closes and what are the factors that
determine the ability of women's groups to continue operating and to initiate new activities; how
sustainable are the links established with local and regional organizations and how many of these links
continue to exist once the initial project ends?). If the program is to be expanded, what are the -
potential benefits and risks involved?
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
Cl Economic    1 Technical    D2 Social        X Participation
1 Financial    X Institutional  [] Environmental El Other
The project will begin as a pilot by promoting the Fund among poor communities that have
received little sustained outside support for their own developmental initiatives. Its pilot characteristic also
means that the project will be able to actively pursue experimental approaches to women's management and
participation in small self-help activities. In addition, implementation arrangements (mainly through
financing windows) will be kept relatively simple to the extent possible and will be adapted to each region's
situation and needs.
While allowing for flexibility and experimentation in project processes and procedures, the project
will also incorporate a number of design and implementation mechanisms to ensure that the activities
financed by the project are likely to be sustainable. Critical factors for sustainability include ability to
motivate women from poor households who have very little time for development activities, nature and
capacity of women's groups, identification of suitable intermediaries to provide adequate technical
assistance to women's groups, ability to appoint and retain qualified staff, particularly at the regional
levels, and ensuring ownership by key stakeholders. Thus, in order to mitigate the potential risks that
project activities are unsustainable a number of mechanisms will be in place. For example, the first nine to
twelve months after credit effectiveness will be limited to IEC, fund promotion, and capacity building
activities. To the extent possible, appropriate intermediaries with roots in the locality will be selected in
order to increase the likelihood that they provide the necessary mentoring to the group.
On the other hand, while targeting criteria will ensure that productive activities have a good chance
of success, the Project may not reach the poorest communities. Thus, in order to assess whether the WDIP
can be adapted to reach even poorer communities, it is proposed that about 10% of total number of projects
be organized in areas which do not have access to the minimum level of basic economic infrastructure.
Special methodologies will be developed and tested including the use of non-banking institutions to hold
assets :for these women in such areas. These pilot experiences will be evaluated and recommendations will
be made regarding whether and how a project of this kind can reach the poorest groups.
Given that this is a leaming and innovation project, intended to provide lessons and guidelines for
the development and implementation of future development interventions, it will also be essential to put in
place a simple and effective monitoring and evaluation and MIS system. Participatory assessments will be
undertaken periodically to elicit stakeholder feedback and monitor project perfornance. The challenge is to
- 11 -



design and implement a system that can supply fairly rapid feedback to improve project implementation
while, at the same time, provide a careful assessment of the WDIP as a whole, and its components.
If successful, this project could create an important, sustainable, and relatively inexpensive
development mechanism consistent with FDRE's poverty reduction strategy to build the capacity of women
to participate in development activities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The WDIP aims to enhance women's participation in development interventions by mobilizing
women at the grassroots level and capitalizing on their potential to support the development process. It will
facilitate the formation of self-help women's groups, and the strengthening of existing grassroots groups,
and will build women's capacity to act collectively to increase the social and economic welfare of their
households. Women's groups will constitute the backbone of the project's activities, and the organizational
structure is intended to provide support to these groups and to give community women increased voice in
the decisions affecting their lives.
There are two main project components: (a) the Grassroots Initiative Fund for Women and (b)
Institutional Strengthening Program comprised of three sub-components: (i) Capacity Building, (ii)
Information, Education, and Communication, and (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation.
Grassroots Initiative Fund for Women.
The Grassroots Initiatives Fund (GIF) does not identify or implement projects, but supports the
efforts of intermediaries and women's groups in sub-project implementation and management by providing
financial and supervisory support and by enhancing their managerial and technical capacities. The GIF is
primarily a financing window and will be demand-driven. It will provide support to women's groups to
organize themselves around productive activities, the nature of which will be determined by the
beneficiaries themselves, and in which they are themselves willing to invest ( on average, about 10% in
up-front savings from women's groups will be required in order for them to qualify for project grants; at
least 5% in cash and the other 5% could be in kind). Given the nature of the Fund's mandate, all activities
will be relatively small, technically simple, and cost effective. Annex II provides a table which outlines the
proposed criteria on which activities will be assessed, for example: proposed activity should be one that is
in line with the Fund's objectives, it must be socially acceptable, should not result in an illegal activity nor
in unfair competition, and it must have no adverse environmental impact. The cost of the proposed
sub-project must be within the limits of the Fund's support and its complexity level must be in line with the
capacity of beneficiaries. For income generating activities, the proposal must also indicate a satisfactory
assessment of the marketability of the proposed product/service, local availability of raw materials is also
an important criterion, as well as the availability of facility for production/service, where necessary. For
labor-saving devices, the appropriateness of the proposed technology will also be assessed and whether or
not it could be funded by other agencies and/or by the ESRDF. Sustainability will be a driving principle
behind all activities and the GIF will not be involved in any way in relief or rehabilitation activities.
Examples of possible activities are: handicraft production; rearing of small animals or poultry; production
of food items; labor-saving devices (e.g., enset production equipment for grinding and scraping);
organization of a day-care center with a nutrition training component or other such activities determined by
the women's groups.
- 12 -



In consultation with the women's groups, the local coordinating offices will select and hire
appropriate intermediaries to provide the requisite technical assistance to women's groups in the
coordination, design, implementation, monitoring, supervision and operation of their selected activity.
Group facilitators, hired by intermediaries in consultation with women's groups/communities, will work
with women's groups for a certain period of time to assist them in preparing their action plans for GIF
funding, attendance records, minutes registers, cashbooks and ledgers. They might also assist -
intermediaries in facilitating group formation and in delivering IEC messages. A technical panel of experts
will also be available to provide technical assistance to women's groups on an as needed basis.
Women's groups will constitute the backbone of the project's activities. Where there are existing
women's groups in selected districts, these groups will be utilized. However, in many cases, there may be
no existing groups, and it would be necessary for the Fund to identify and encourage the formation of
women's groups.
Capacity building and training to strengthen women's group is included under this component,
while capacity building at all other levels will come under the capacity building component. The capacity
of women's groups to undertake and manage their activities will be strengthened through the Grassroots
Management Training Program (GMTP) which could have the following core contents: human resource
management (for example, group formation, dynamics); financial management (for example, bookkeeping,
savings and credit schemes), management (for example, identification of business and skills requirement of
the group, preparation of sub-project); and production and marketing. GMTP can be adapted to the needs
of semi-illiterate or illiterate women in a variety of sectors and a range of different socio-cultural contexts.
Simple skills training would also be provided to women's groups. The need for such training will be
identified by the women's groups themselves, and determined in consultation with their intermediary. The
intermediary will then place the request before the Regional Coordinating Unit who would then decide how
and wlhere to give such training, after compiling such requests from the different intermediaries in the
region.
Institutional Strengthening Component
(a) Capacity building
A preliminary assessment has been carried out which focuses on the capacity and intent of
stakeholders likely to be involved in project implementation. Clearly, the capacity of many stakeholders is
weak, and therefore capacity building will be an integral and important part of project design. In fact, it is
possible that the first nine months of the project may consist entirely of capacity-building activities.
(i) Capacity Building for Internediaries and Facilitators. The intermediaries that would help to
implement the project will constitute a critical group in this project. In general, capacity building
efforts will focus on improving intermediary skills regarding group organization, facilitation, training
of grassroots beneficiaries, project design, appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation reporting. Efforts will
also focus on strengthening of indigenous and community-based organizations within poor districts. To
some extent the nature of the capacity building program will also depend on the roles and the
characteristics of the selected intermediaries and, therefore, more specific activities would be developed
immediately after selection of intermediaries in the different regions. Group facilitators will also be
given training that would help them work effectively with women's groups.
- 13 -



(ii) Project Officers and Other Partners. Given the nature of the project, all project officers, staff and
other project stakeholders at different administrative levels will be targeted to ensure that they are
familiar with the project approach and objectives and armed with technical skills related to project
planning, implementation, and management. Training aimed at increasing the appreciation and
understanding of issues related to gender, environment, and developing community mobilization and
participation skills will also be supported.
(b) Information, education and communication
(i)    Objectives and Activities. The IEC component aims to increase awareness of men and
women in a number of areas like health, including HIV/AIDS and harmful traditional practices, nutrition,
family planning, environmental sanitation, and legal rights and obligations. Activities would be designed
based on the findings of the Participatory Rural Appraisals and would aim to strengthen the positive
aspects of customary laws and practices, while at the same time sensitizing the public to the adverse
aspects. Key legal messages will be based on a study being financed by the PHRD grant which examines
the inconsistencies between the 1995 Constitution and the 1960 Civil Code to identify Family Law
revisions that would be needed to ensure the Constitutional mandate of gender equality. This
sub-component will also involve the promotion of some female role models, whose services will be utilized
to increase awareness of the potential opportunities for women and to convince both men and women that
the household will benefit on the whole if women are also able to develop and avail themselves of such
opportunities.
(ii)   Implementation. Private sector intermediaries would be used to design and implement
different types of innovative campaigns to reach women at the grassroots level. Different media will be
used to reach poor households in a social context where the majority of men and women are illiterate and
where conventional forms of IEC tools like radios and television are not widely used. Separate draft
guidelines have been prepared for the IEC component, which are currently being pre-tested under the
PHRD grant and will be finalized in August, 2000.
(c) Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation will be based on indicators identified in the project proposal of women's
groups, financing agreement, and the list contained in the Development Credit Agreement. Regular and
systematic collection of information and relevant data to monitor progress/performance of delivery
mechanisms as well as the impact of the activities financed under the project will be undertaken. This is
essential not only to be able to adjust the project mechanisms as necessary for effective project
implementation but also for designing the expanded phase, if such a decision is made. At the beginning of
the project, a simple, computerized national MIS will be established at the central level while regions will
enter data manually. Eighteen months after credit effectiveness, the system would be jointly reviewed by
the Govemment and the Bank, and a decision made on expansion of the computerized system to the
regions; regions can then adapt it based on their needs and capacity.
As part of the loan conditions, a Mid-Term Review will also be conducted and relevant progress
reports and beneficiary assessments will be prepared in time for discussion during the MTR.
The M&E Component will also finance other participatory assessments and independent
evaluations periodically.
- 14 -



Indiatfive         E_ 4-            % Of
Component                     Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
____________  (US$11)    Total            MML   financing
1. Grassroots Initiatives for Women  Institution           4.47        55.8       2.70       54.0
Component                             building
2. Institutional Strengthening Program    BI - Institutional            0.0                   0.0
Component                            Development
BI - Institutional    0.63        7.9       0.55       11.0
a. Capacity Building Sub-component    Development
b. Information, Education, and       BI - Institutional    0.72         9.0       0.50       10.0
Communication Sub-Component          Development
c. Monitoring and Evaluation          BI - Institutional   0.46         5.7       0.45        9.0
Sub-Component                        Development
3. Administrative/Management                                1.73       21.6       0.80       16.0
Cornponent*
0.00        0.0       0.00        0.0
Total Project Costs                       8.01       100.0       5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                        8.01       100.0       5.00      100.0
All taxes for vehicles and equipment will be financed by the Government.
: Managementladministrative costs listed as separate for purposes of transparency and monitoring. Administrative component includes investment
costs fbr vehicles and fax machines and recurrent costs which include salaries and operating costs in all regions.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project period will cover five years.
Management of Project Activities
Cenitral Level. Project activities would be managed at the regional levels, supported by a small
coordinating and monitoring unit at the central level. The central financing window will be kept small with
3-4 staff at the most to coordinate/monitor the project and report to WAO, as well as help them to
mainstream and strengthen their coordination and monitoring responsibilities (their mandate under the
National Women's Policy). The central office would include a Project Coordinator,
Financial/Procurement/MIS Officer, a Capacity Building Officer, and a Promotion/IEC Officer. There will
be a National Steering Committee that will reflect a wider range of expertise and will oversee and guide on
policy and other issues (NGOs, such as CRDA and CERTWID will be included). This Steering
Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Women's Affairs.
Regional Levels. Regional Steering Committees will oversee activities in the different regions chaired by
the head of the Regional Women's Affairs Bureau. A small financing window would be managed under the
supervision of the Women's Affairs Bureaus. The unit would have a Regional Coordinator for project
- 15 -



activities who will report to the Steering Committee. The Unit would also include a capacity-building
officer, promotion/lEC expert, financial and procurement officer, and MIS officer. At the regional level, it
would be helpful if the offices were small but staff requirements kept flexible depending on regional needs.
It was also suggested that capacity building, promotion/lEC, and MIS officers could be shared by regions,
with these experts being rotated from one regional office to another as each region begins its
implementation phase. Depending on the capacity within the region, such coordinating unit may even be
maintained at the zonal or wereda level. This would mean that a staff of the Regional Unit could be
delegated to the zonal or wereda level until necessary capacity is built.
Implementation Arrangements
The project would strengthen existing local structures and linkages with grassroots entities like
kebeles and development associations. There would not be a single, uniform implementation structure for
all regions, given their varying capacity and different socio-economic conditions. The goal would be to
avoid creating any additional institutional structures for coordination at the regional levels, and to utilize
local structures to manage project activities. As a LIL, the project can be open to testing out different
models to see which one works best.
Implementation by Intermediaries. Intermediaries will act as implementing agencies, providing support in
social mobilization, training, capacity building, and guidance in identifying the group's action plan. They
will also monitor and provide implementation support to women's groups. Intermediaries can provide a
range of functions based on their qualifications and on the established need of women's groups (for
example, wherever possible women's groups will maintain their own finances, but in some cases the
intermediary may need to oversee the funds). The intermediaries will be chosen based on specific
pre-identified criteria to be defined in the project implementation manual (for example, track record,
location or proximity to women's groups, language, training experience). If they are from the private sector
or NGOs, they will be hired as consultants. If they are extension agents or other govemnment agents, they
will be paid only expenses for travel and per diems for such services. The financial arrangements at the
grassroots level will be flexible to reflect the capacity of the groups and the intermediaries. Where women's
groups lack capacity and need to be strengthened, intermediaries may be held accountable for the women's
groups' use of the funds. Extent of accountability of intermediaries would need to be very clear in the
agreements. In particular. the responsibilities between women's groups and intermediaries would need to be
clearly defined in agreements. The project implementation manual will have annexes containing sample
agreements between women's groups and intermediaries. Differences between the rural and urban regions
will need to be taken into account (for example, in terms of availability of banks and literacy rates).
Capacity Building. The capacity building components will consist of two types of activities: First, those
that can be designed in advance based on needs already identified across various groups (such as training
women's groups and intermediaries in managing the cycle). Second, those which have to be tailor-made
to meet the special needs of a group of beneficiaries, or facilitators depending on the nature of selected
sub-projects.
While project staff will actively identify capacity building requirements, given staffing constraints,
training will be sub-contracted through a wide range of training institutions, NGOs, and consulting
specialists. In the case of the Grassroots Management Component, a training-of-trainers approach in order
to develop a network of skilled facilitators and specialists will be utilized. As the goal will be to create as
much self-reliance at the level of the women's groups as possible, special attention will be given to these
training of trainer programs. In order to assist in moving project preparation efforts forward, the first
trainer of trainers workshop funded by ESRDF was held in August 17-27. Participants from IDF, PHRD,
- 16-



NGOs, the Government, and private sector took part in the training. Evaluations results showed that the
training was both relevant and timely. A draft GMT manual adapted to the Ethiopian context will be one
of the outputs of the training. The manual will be further refined at the field level.
Techrnical Support Experts. A panel of service providers (technical support experts) would be established
centrally, which regional units could contract for technical expertise on an as-needed basis. Where possible
regional panels may be established, depending on the capacity available in the region. (See Annex 2 for
further details).
Implementation Rules and Guidelines. Implementation arrangements and responsibilities will be clearly
articulated in manuals, which are listed below. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has already
been provided to the Bank and will be finalized after negotiation. Any changes to the PIM can be made in
consultation with the Bank. A simple set of guidelines for women's groups is being tested with small groups
of women and will be finalized after negotiations. In addition, drafts have been received of the following
guidelines, all of which will be retained as drafts in order to ensure flexibility for revisions as warranted by
circurnstances:
*   An IEC manual would provide guidelines for the legal literacy campaign, other IEC messages, and
how the role model fund would be implemented.
e   A capacity building manual will be developed at the regional level. Regional offices will be in
charge of capacity building and implementation is expected through intermediaries such as CRDA.
This manual is being developed through a series of workshops; two GMT workshops have already
taken place this year, the introductory/sensitization workshop in April and the training of master
trainers workshop in August.
3 A detailed financial/administrative operations manual has also been finalized.
Phased Manner of Implementation. Regional implementation will occur in a phased manner, with four
regions starting during the first year, four regions during the second year and the remaining regions during
the third year. Addis Ababa, Amhara, Afar, and Dire Dawa have been selected for project year (PY) I so as
to provide learning in urban and rural situations, as well as in regions that are in different stages of
development.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring of project implementation and the evaluation of the impact of the project on the
socioeconomic status of beneficiaries will be conducted in a participatory manner. At the outset of the
project, baseline information based on data sheets prepared by each participating grassroots women group
will be collected. Most of this information will be collected by the facilitator with the assistance of local
resource persons where necessary, under the supervision of the intermediary. The implementing agency,
beneficiaries, the RCU and other stakeholders will jointly and continually monitor and evaluate the progress
and the impact of sub-projects. Stakeholders who are close to the sub-projects such as wereda, kebele and
other village-level organizations, will also play a strong role in the monitoring and evaluation of projects.
In addition, the project will finance independent evaluations periodically to understand the outcome and
impact of these activities. These will involve qualitative assessments that will take into consideration the
views of beneficiaries.
- 17 -



Regular monitoring tools will be monthly sub-project progress report submitted by the intermediary
to the RCU and project visit reports of the Capacity Building Officer. The monthly progress report of the
intermediary will include the implementation status of project activities, financial status, i.e., funds received
and used/unused; and problems encountered and measures taken to solve them.
The coordination of the follow-up and evaluation of completed sub-projects will be the
responsibility of the RCU. The RCU will make arrangements, involving all major stakeholders, to ensure
completed sub-projects are visited and their impact on the beneficiaries assessed. The reports of such
evaluations should be used as feedback information for planning purposes.
Guidelines with clear monitoring and evaluation indicators will be ready by credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation will be conducted against indicators identified in the project proposal and
according to the monitoring and evaluation schedule indicated in the Financing Agreement. A simple
computerized MIS svstem is being developed and will be available at the central level. Data entry will be
undertaken manually at the regional levels.
Assuming computers are already available, the possibility of selecting one or more regions to
pilot the computerized monitoring and evaluations systems would be considered. Eighteen months
after credit effectiveness, the system would be jointly reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and
a decision made on expansion of the computerized system to the regions.
Bank Supervision Plan. While the project will be closely monitored, with the support of Resident
Mission staff, a mid-term review will take place after 30 months of project implementation to identify
project successes and problems to be addressed, and modifications that may be needed in project
procedures for the second half of the Project. The Mid-Term Review will be preceded by independent
consultant studies of a sample of sub-projects by region and sector, utilizing beneficiary participatory
assessment methods.
Project Evaluation & Expansion Scope. Eighteen months before the completion of the Project, an
independent evaluation will be carried out to detennine (i) whether the Project has accomplished its
objectives both in project terms and as part of the broader poverty reduction program; (ii) the effectiveness
of project management, the institutional structure, and the operational procedures; and (iii) the value of
scaling up project activities.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The WDIP seeks to operationalize the Ethiopia Country Assistance Strategy's objective of poverty
alleviation, in general, and to improve the status of women by economic and legal means, in particular. By
targeting women in poor districts and encouraging them to form and remain in groups organized to
- 18-



undertake productive activities funded by grants through the project, it directly addresses the financing
needs of poor women. These needs have been underscored by existing sector work such as the Ethiopia
Social Sector Report, participatory appraisals, and the WBGOE publication on Implementing the National
Policy onI Women. Through its IEC component, WDIP also aims to improve awareness among women and
communities regarding legal, health, nutrition, harmful traditional practices, and environmental
conservation issues. It also seeks to build institutional capacity (for intermediaries, facilitators, and
relevant government institutions) for project services delivery and oversight through its capacity-building
component.
There are two main reasons for government involvement: imperfect credit markets and poverty
alleviation. This project targets women's groups which would not have access to funds from other financial
institutions under normal circumstances. Based on the PRAs, these poor women tend to borrow money
from relatives and friends, as well as moneylenders who charge high interest rates (sometimes as much as
240 percent per annum). However, financing alone would not satisfactorily address the diverse needs of
women especially if they want to improve the productivity of the activities they engage in and, ultimately,
the welfare of their households. Thus the strategy adopted in this project emphasizes the holistic approach
of provicling training, IEC, and financing to women's groups in order to have a broader impact on women's
lives and household welfare.
The counterfactual would have been to rely on the private sector and NGOs whose involvement is
usually l-imited to more accessible, developed regions. In general, the private sector tends to be motivated
by profits; providing training and financing to poor women can be risky and is more likely to yield greater
social returns than financial returns. While some NGOs in Ethiopia provide grants and training, their
activities are substantially smaller in scale and scope than what this project proposes to do. WDIP will
cover selected districts in zones that have high numbers of people below the poverty line in all regions. In
addition, while it proposes to target mainly women's groups that are poor but not the poorest of the poor, it
aims to organize about 10 percent of the total number of projects in areas which do not have access to the
minimumn level of economic infrastructure such as banking services. Special methodologies for service
delivery will be tested and evaluated to see how WDIP can work effectively in these areas.
][n order not to impose additional burdens on the existing limited implementation capacity of the
government and to minimize the transactions costs for poor women, nongovernmental entities will also be
contracted to deliver services to poor women. Community involvement will also be actively sought by the
project.
By the end of the project, it is expected that about 800 women's groups would have been formed;
approxinmately 16,000 women would have been recipients of training, productive and/or labor-saving
technology, and small grants to purchase inputs for income-generating activities. It is also estimated that
over 250 facilitators and a number of intermediaries would have been trained and mobilized in all regions.
It is also expected that the capacity to plan, undertake, and manage development interventions will be
strengthened across different administrative levels, ranging from the community level to the central level.
Training, technical assistance, and technology/input funds received are likely to result in increased
productivity and incomes, as well as improved management, technical and project implementation skills. It
is also envisioned that over the long term, a number of women's groups will benefit from their involvement
in WDIP-supported activities because of increased savings through the mobilization of savings groups. It
is also expected that a number of them would be able to gain access to mainstream financial intermediation
mechanisms. Women are also expected to benefit from increased self-reliance, self-confidence, and their
enhanced social status in the family and community.
- 19-



Benefits of increased awareness of legal rights, health, and nutrition, harmful traditional practices,
and environmental conservation issues due to WDIP's IEC activities are also expected, although these
would be difficult to quantify. Improved community awareness of gender issues is also an important
benefit of this project.
The project, however, also faces a number of risks (Annex 4 discusses them and outlines some risk
mitigating measures which the project implementation plan will also address):
* groups might be difficult to form, especially in more remote and more traditional areas
* mistargeting of beneficiaries
* possibility of default and dropping out
* grant funds might be used to finance consumption rather than production as specified in the group's
business plan
* implementation capacity constraints
Of these risks, default and dropping out and the use of grant funds for consumption rather than
productive items seem to be the more difficult ones to control but risk minimization measures, including
supervision and monitoring, will be clearly stipulated in the project implementation manual.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Fiscal Impact:
The total cost of the five-year program is US$8.01 million, with IDA's contribution at US$5.0
million; Italy's contribution is approximately US$1.8 million; other donors's contribution is estimated to be
around US$ 500,000; the Government's contribution is US$600,000; and women's groups' contributions
are estimated at around US$160,000. The project as it is designed is affordable and is expected to have
only minimal fiscal impact. In addition, implementation arrangements have been kept simple with a light
government structure that relies on existing local institutions as intennediaries and locally based individuals
as group facilitators. Project activities will be phased to keep pace with capacity-building activities.
Economies of scope will be achieved by combining services delivered to target beneficiaries, for example,
grants and training together with information that increases community and women's awareness on legal,
health and nutrition, environmental conservation issues. Various cost minimizing alternatives in terms of
sharing of regional office units, capacity building, MIS, and promotion officers; having a simple MIS
system; delivery of services to groups that are clustered geographically to facilitate ease of supervision and
monitoring have also been presented and discussed with the Government. The Government has agreed to
almost all of the cost minimizing suggestions and will also explore the possibility of sharing some regional
office units.
However, since WDIP has been designed as a grant, there is no direct cost recovery mechanism
involved although mechanisms for women's groups to become sustainable by having a group revolving fund
will be established (with each member expected to pay back to their group a percentage of administrative
costs and, if agreed upon in the group by-laws, some interest together with their share of input costs to help
sustain future group activities). It is also envisioned that some of these groups, particularly those in urban
areas, would even be able to obtain loans from formal microfinance institutions as a result of their
-20 -



increased capacity to manage their business activities and their savings which could be used as
collateral/deposit. Nonetheless, should the government decide to continue with the grant mechanism once
the project ends, then it would need to make sure that this is adequately budgeted for. In addition, should
the project be scaled up then the additional financial and administrative requirements of increased outreach
activities, taking into account different funding sources, would need to be examined.
The average direct cost per beneficiary, considering only skills and grassroots fund management,
training, equipment, technical assistance and seed money is estimated at US$281. When other support
costs such as institutional capacity building and MIS/monitoring and evaluation are included then cost per
beneficiary increases to US$501. This estimate allows for sufficient funds for training, capacity building
and other needed support (for example, administrative and monitoring) costs necessary to effectively reach
a mix of poor women's groups, some of which may have illiterate and/or less skilled members who may
need more training and follow-up and supervision, as well as a number who may be located in remote
areas.
A wide range of activities have been envisaged to be undertaken by poor women's groups
depending upon the resource base in the project areas. The groups themselves will select the activities
appropriate to their need and circumstances. A review of studies on small-scale income-generating
activities by the WDIP team indicates that women are predominantly engaged in petty trading and
processing and selling of food and beverages; followed by pottery making; textile and rug weaving; and
jewelry and household crafts making. A number of them were also interested in animal husbandry. Based
on the few available estimates, the average financial rate of return for these activities is about 20 to 25
percent; most of these are urban-based and a lower financial rate of return is more likely to be expected in
rural and remote areas.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The technical issues that need to be considered during project design and implementation are the following:
* Providing Technical Support to Women's groups. Ensuring that women's groups are guided
properly in technical matters to ensure that they adopt activities in a sustainable manner so that within
a specified period they can continue to operate independently without relying on intermediaries.
* Targeting Women from Poor Households - Criteria for targeting women's groups would need to be
determined carefully. Based on a number of surveys: having a majority of female heads of households
as group members may be a criterion; involvement in particular types of income-generating activities
may be another criterion; women from landless households, women above 18 who are not married in
poor rural households may be another selection criterion.
Effective Delivery of IEC. Ways of delivering IEC that would effectively reach illiterate women and men,
as well as a way of packaging different IEC messages that could deal with various relevant issues such as
legal literacy, nutrition, health, hygiene, harmful traditional practices, and environmental conservation.
* Provision of Grants. Targeting women from poor households who do not have the capacity to obtain
credit from financial intermediaries is important. The appraisal of women's groups project proposals
will have to ensure that the proposed arrangements address a number of issues related to size,
recipients, and usefulness of such grants.
- 21 -



* The establishment of a satisfactory MIS system would be essential including the establishment of:
(a) Criteria for expansion - scaling up indicators and modalities for, and sequence of expansion;
and
(b) The need to include more outcome/impact indicators. This underscores the need to collect
baseline data about the women's groups, and therefore it will be necessary to think through these
issues.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Women's Affairs Office at the Federal Level will be the main executing agency. A small central
financing window will be established within WAO, which will be responsible for coordinating and
monitoring the project activities. Only a few staff are expected to be appointed: a grassroots fund
coordinator, an administrative and accounting specialist, a capacity building expert, and an MIS officer.
Technical guidance will be provided through a National Steering Committee comprised of sectoral,
nongovernmental and private sector representatives to guide at the policy level. These arrangements are
likely to be replicated at the regional levels. It is also possible, if sufficient capacity exists, for the
coordinating unit to be located in a wereda. Different options will be tested.
4.2 Project management:
Project management. The project is expected to be coordinated by the Central Ministry but project staff at
the central level will be kept minimal. The project will be managed fairly independently at the regional
levels. The draft implementation manual which will be circulated along with the PAD will contain
implementation suggestions that will be reviewed within the Bank.
Capacity of Regional Bureaus and other stakeholders to provide the required support under this project is
critical and preliminary review indicates that this will need to be strengthened considerably. Based on the
needs assessment undertaken as part of PHRD, a capacity-building sub-component will be designed. A
Panel of Technical Support Experts will be established who will be contracted to provide technical
guidance on a consultancy basis.
Linkages with all partners. Activities that may be financed by the project are likely to be intersectoral and
the project would need to ensure that, in both design and implementation, there are adequate linkages in
place with all relevant sectoral stakeholders.
Availability, capacity, and acceptability of intermediaries. The WID Report on "Implementing the
Ethiopian National Policy for Women" indicates that reaching women is going to be a difficult challenge.
In the remote and distant areas, where the need for assistance is greatest, there are very few formal NGOs
or institutions working with women. Other existing institutions like wereda and kebele development
associations will also be utilized. Finding intermediaries who are acceptable to communities will also be an
important consideration in the selection process.
Women's Groups. Women need to be encouraged to form groups through which services may be delivered,
and where members of the group may help themselves, as well as each other, in enhancing their income and
- 22 -



skills. Measures to promote this approach, as well as to provide adequate incentives, will need to be
examined and translated into project design.
All of the above issues have already been examined through region-specific background studies and PRAs,
and during the Bank appraisal but these will be examined further through work under the PHRD grant.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement, mostly consisting of contracts of very small monetary value, will be mainly carried
out at the grassroot level, following simple and transparent procurement procedures stated in the
project implementation manual. This manual has already been reviewed by Bank procurement
specialists. It will also conform with national regulations.
No major procurement issues are identified although training on procurement procedures and
record keeping is important at all levels. The Project Launch Workshop would include a module on
procurement for the project and project staff will be provided with intensive training with the assistance of
the Procurement Analyst/Specialist in the Addis Ababa Resident Mission. The training prepared for
intermediaries will also include a module for sensitizing the intermediaries to Bank requirements of
transparency and faimess. Women's Groups will also be provided adequate, simple procurement and
record-keeping training related to their proposed activities under the component "Grassroots Management
Training" through the use of experienced intermediaries.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Prior to credit effectiveness, a Bank-approved financial management specialist will evaluate the
project's financial management and reporting system (staffing levels and skills of accounting and
financing personnel, the adequacy of the manuals, the completeness of the accounting system, and the
process for appointment of auditors). The establishment of a sound financial management and
reporting system will be a critical condition for credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project involves no major construction. Where construction is needed, such as for a day care
center, it is expected to be a small tukul or such indigenous structure, not involving any environmental
damage. The proposed action plans will contain a section on possible impacts of the proposed activity (ies)
on the environment and community. At the same time, the project will encourage activities that will protect
and conserve the environment. Activities will include group nurseries, group wood lots, and soil erosion
prevention. Activities may also involve discouraging women from depending on fuelwood sale for their
livelihood and channeling them into other productive activities that do not adversely affect the environment.
The project would also promote actions that could help protect the environment such as hygienic (e.g.
sanitatiion and waste disposal) practices that households and communities can adopt. Monitoring and
evaluation, MIS will also try to have some indicators that would measure the environmental effects of the
project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
- 23 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
defined (indicate how issues will be identified)  []None
Participatory Rural Appraisals which were conducted in all but two regions sought information on
customary laws and practices affecting the economic lives of men and women. In addition, two PRAs were
conducted in Addis Ababa to understand the constraints facing female entrepreneurs and obtain infornation
on divorced women's access to social and financial assistance. PRA findings constitute the basis for the
design of this project. In addition, a large number of beneficiaries at the grassroots level were consulted to
understand the priorities and needs of grassroots women.
In particular, these investigations have led to a much clearer understanding of gender-based roles
of men and women, which will help in the fine-tuning of project design and implementation mechanisms to
reach women more effectively. They have also enhanced understanding of the types of social and economic
groups/networks that exist in many of these communities that may be used to deliver services
for women. The PRAs have also been useful in identifying key areas where IEC messages are needed.
Moreover, a recent survey conducted to understand the access of women from poor households to different
types of media will assist in better designing the IEC component.
The PRAs have also helped in identifying the risks inherent to this project because of conservative
social attitudes regarding the role of women, but at the same time indicate that perhaps, at one level,
poverty does emancipate women from a number of traditional constraints. For example, the PRAs indicate
that women from very poor households were all engaged in some income-generating activity in order to
supplement household income, and are likely to have the support of the husbands to engage in such activity.
Also, most men questioned seemed to support women being assisted to increase their income.
Another very clear message that comes across is that women work very long hours. In some
localities, women work as long as 18 hours on a daily basis. It is evident that if these women are to benefit
from development interventions, it will be important to free up their time or to focus on increasing the
productivity of activities that they are already involved in.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This project is a direct response to the findings of the WID Sector Report, which was prepared and
finalized for Ethiopia. The Report had been prepared in a highly participatory manner, jointly with the
- 24 -



Federal Government, and in close consultation with, and under the guidance of Regional Governments, as
well as nongovernmental stakeholders.
Participatory Rural Appraisals, were conducted in all but two regions, to bring in the voices of the
grassroots beneficiaries. Participatory appraisals were also completed in three urban areas, though in two,
the information generated was relatively weak. Selected consultants, including a National Coordinator,
received training from international consultants for this purpose. Further workshops and consultative
meetings were held to share information on project design and implementation mechanisms with regional
stakeholders.
NGOs and Intermediaries: All of the following NGOs have been advised of the proposed project; and
there has been an exchange of information on a number of project-related issues: ACORD, Action Aid,
African Village Academy, CARE International, Food for the Hungry International, Oxfam UK, Propride,
Redd Bama, Relief Society of Tigray, Save the Children UK, Sustainable Financial and Promotional
Institutions, and World Vision. The information provided by these groups will be used to estimate the cost
effectiveness of this project. Further workshops will be held as the preparation of the project progresses
and they will be advised of the project concept and their comments sought on its design and implementation
mechanisms.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not Applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not Applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not Applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
= lky                                      A.PUc '  I;.ty
l Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            E Yes N No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  EL Yes N No
E Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    L Yes N No
E Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       LI Yes LI No
EI Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  [ Yes N No
E Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    ElI Yes El No
C Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes N No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             El Yes N No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  El Yes N No
C Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          C Yes N No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 25 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Ability to find appropriate and sustainable  H       Women will be encouraged to organize based on
activities for women's groups                        activities that they are already invoIved in so
that the focus will be on enhancing productivity.
A menu of possible options will be prepared.
PRAs, already conducted at the regional levels,
will help to identify such activities. Incentives
for continued group collaboration will also be
explored.
Capacity of women's groups to produce      M         Grassroots Management training will be
required savings                                     required before a women's group will receive
any other assistance. Savings would also be a
prerequisite for acquiring additional funds for
the women's groups
From Components to Outputs
Availability of adequate intermediaries to  S        There will be a wide range of activities to
implement project activities                         promote project's objectives, and a variety of
existing entities will be strengthened through
provision of training and technical assistance.
Willingness of communities to permit       N         An IEC program is being prepared that will aim
women to participate in project activities          to convince communities that supporting women
to get involved in economic activities will
ultimately benefit all. Further, interventions will
be packaged in such a way that women's groups
will be organized around an income-generating
activity and at the same time learn more about
better health and nutrition practices and other
household/community welfare enhancement
practices. These could serve as incentives for
poor communities to participate.
- 26 -



Poor households will have the time for      M         Labor-saving devices will be financed under this
project activities                                    project. Also, women will be encouraged to
group around activities that they are involved in,
and the incremental increase in terms of time is
expected to be minimal.
Ability to attract adequately trained staff  S        Remuneration and benefit packages will be
in the regions                                        discussed with the Government. Team and
capacity-building activities, including training,
will be provided. Considerable efforts will be
made to recruit and train individuals already
residing in the regions.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Use of NGOs as intermediaries and payment of their administrative costs might meet some resistance in
certain regions and communities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower has:
e   Adopted the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association
i  Opened the project Account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of the DCA and deposited therein the
amount refered to in Section 3.03 (b) of the DCA
i  Has established a financial management and accounting system, satisfactory to the Association for the
Project
i   Adopted the action plan, refered to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 of the DCA, for the First Project
Year, in form and substance acceptable to the Association
*   Established the project Coordinator referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 of the DCA
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Mid-Term Review:
*   Assessment of financial management system to determine feasibility of LACI compliance for second
half
of the project or if the LIL is to be scaled up.
*   Preparation of beneficiary assessments ready to be reviewed and discussed during the MTR.
Eighteen months prior to project closing date, submission of Audit Report on Community Use of Funds.
- 27 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
LI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the firstsix months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Christine Lao Pena               Arvil Van Adams                    Oey .stra Meesook
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ETHIOPIA: WID
Key Pevtfonance
4lierarohy of Objectoves         lE MoniftIg & Ewaluaion                                 A    mp ptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Gender balance in poverty    Improvement in household    * Reports produced by the    *    General economic
reduction                 income in Ethiopia         Welfare Monitoring System   stability and growth
ESW Reports (periodic)
Follow-on Development
Objective
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improved welfare of poor   1. Number of women who    * PIU & MIS reports        *    Political commitment to
household's in poor districts   have acquired new skills  * supervision mission reports strengthen implementation of
through increased productivity                       * evaluation mission reports  the National Policy for
of women and enhanced     2. Number of women who    (mid-term & final)          Women
awareness of important    have improved their existing   * qualitative participatory    *    Wider acceptance of
welfare issues            skills                     evaluations conducted at   new roles for poor women in
3. Number of women who    regular intervals          Ethiopian society
actively take part in      * Micro-project reports by    *  Complementary
micro-credit projects after    intermediary unit      initiatives emerge to replicate:
training                                             this project's results
4. Number of groups created
or strengthened compared to
target
5. Level of satisfaction of
beneficiaries with group-level
and community-level
outcomes
6. % of micro-enterprises
managed by women
7. % of funds repaid by
individual beneficiaries to
their group
8. % of profits generated
compared to grants for raw
materials and inputs
9. % increase in assets two
years after project intervention
(excluding direct assistance)
-29 -



tnIlc ore         0o~tou1ill   >o 1 
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Women's groups formed   1. a. Number of groups    * PIU & MIS reports        * Sustainable economic
around an existing income-   created                 * supervision mission reports opportunities exist in regions
generating activity; groups &  b. Number of groups and  * evaluation mission reports  * Continuing political support
intermediaries' skills    intermediaries that have   (mid-term & final)         at the regional level for
improved groups qualify for  received grass roots     * qualitative participatory    women's initiatives
assistance                management training        evaluations                * Adequate capacity exists
c. Number of groups which                            among women to produce
have submitted action plans                          required savings
d. Number of action plans
approved
e. Number of groups to whom
funds have been disbursed
(tranche 1, 2, 3 if given in
tranches)
f. Individual member projects
approved by groups
2. Increased capacity and  capacity at grassroots level    * opinion surveys for IEC
awareness of gender related   a. Number of grassroots  (annual)
legal rights and obligations,  management courses given    * Women's group reports
and social, health, nutrition,  b. Number of skills
and environmental issues  development training courses
among target population   given
c. Number of groups who
received courses (more than
one group might participate in
the same course)
d. Number of individuals who
received courses
e. Proportion of target groups
who receive training
f. End of course assessments
covering:
(i) The effectiveness of the
training methods
(ii) What was learned
(iii) The confidence of the
group to carry out its tasks
g. Number of women who
have acquired new skills
h. Number of women who
have improved their existing
skills
i. Number of women who
actively take part in
micro-project development
after taking training
- 30 -



2. Effectiveness of the
technical assistance provided
to the beneficiaries
a. Number of
groups/individuals who have
received support from
intermediaries
b. Number of
groups/individuals who have
received support from
technical support experts
c. Number of individuals who
have received skills training
d. Number of groups which
have facilitators
e. Number of studies
undertaken to assist in the
selection and design of
micro-projects
IEC
1. The number of people in
the community who have
received the message
(attended the theatre groups,
attended meetings, etc.)
2. % of male and female
beneficiaries reached
3. Level of understanding of
the project and its objectives
4. The number of people who
have understood the IEC
message
5. The number of people who
have changed their attitudes as
a result of the message
- 31 -



3. Effective project      3.a. Compliance with
implementation and improved targeting criteria (absence of
understanding of project  micro-finance institutions,
results by beneficiaries  access to economic
infrastructure, availability of
intermediaries)
b. Number of requests
received
c. Number of requests
approved (in total and by
sector) and volume of grants
compared to targets
d. Processing time compared
to established standards
e. Proportion of the target
population who received
training (grassroots
management and skills
development)
f. Total number of women
who have been reached by at
least one project component
g. Administrative cost as
proportion of total cost
h. % of progress reports
submitted on time
i. Number of projects
completed
j. Proportion of projects
completed within acceptable
cost and time limits
k. Number of participatory
evaluations completed
1. Number of women's groups
which continue to operate
after the closure of the project
m. Number of economic
initiatives (group and
individual) which continue to
operate after the closure of the
project
n. Number of IEC initiatives
which continue to influence
group/community behavior
after the closure of the project
- 32 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
*applies to all 3 components
1. Grassroots Initiatives for  1. US$4.47 million   * Quarterly progress and
Women:                                              disbursement reports       * Interested intermediaries
*  Promotion                                         * Audit Reports           with (relevant) minimum
*  Training                                          * Report on Capacity      qualifications available in
*TA                                                 Building and training      adequate numbers
*  Tools & equipment                                 activities                * Poor women will be
*  Seed money                                                                  encouraged by male members
in the households to avail of
increased opportunities
* Availability of private
consultants at regional levels
for TA requirements
* Ability to attract adequately
trained staff in the regions
* Poor households will have
the time for project activities
Institutional Strengthening 2. US$1.8 million
Component
A. Capacity Building
B. IEC Component
C. Monitoring & evaluation:
* Studies;
* Participatory evaluations;
* MIS.
Project Management        3. US$1.73 million
Equipment/Vehicles        US$.7 million
Recurrent Costs           US$ 1.0 million
-33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ETHIOPIA: WID
The WDIP aims to enhance women's participation in development interventions by mobilizing
women at the grassroots level and nurturing their potential to participate in the development process. It
will facilitate the formation of self-help women's groups, and the strengthening of existing grassroots
groups, and will strengthen women's capacity to act collectively to increase the social and economic
welfare of their households. Women's groups will constitute the backbone of the project's activities, and
the organizational structure is intended to provide support to these groups and to give community women
increased voice in the decisions affecting their lives. The project is expected to finance the following
activities:
*   Social intermediation among women's groups in selected districts to undertake specific productive
activities, as well as promotion of project activities;
*   Capacity building, training, and other such activities for women's groups and other stakeholders;
*   Purchase of small locally available equipment, goods, or supplies to increase productivity of members
of women's groups; and
3   Information, Education and Communication activities for the public at large but focusing on enhancing
gender awareness.
There are two Project components. For sake of transparency the project management costs of the Fund as
an entity are also costed separately.
* Grassroots Initiatives Fund For Women
* Institutional Strengthening Program
(i)    Capacity Building Program
(ii)   Information, Education, and Communication
(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation
* Project Management
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.50 million
A. Grassroots Initiatives for Women.
Objectives and Activities. The Grassroots Fund does not identify or implement projects, but supports the
efforts of internediaries and women's groups in sub-project implementation and management by providing
financial and supervisory support and by enhancing their managerial and technical capacities. The
Grassroots Fund (GIF) is primarily a financing window and will be demand driven. It will provide
support to women's groups to organize themselves around productive activities, the nature of which would
be determined by the beneficiaries themselves, and in which they are themselves willing to invest. In
consultation with the women's groups, the local coordinating offices will select appropriate intermediaries
to provide the requisite technical assistance to women's groups in the coordination, design, implementation,
monitoring, supervision and operation of their selected activity. Given the nature of the mandate, all
activities will be relatively small, technically simple, and cost effective. Sustainability will be a driving
principle behind all activities, the Fund will not be involved in any way in relief or rehabilitation activities.
- 34-



Scope of Activities. The GIF will operate as a financing window which will provide women's
groups with technical assistance, training, and grant funds to collectively undertake a productive activity.
Specifically the project will finance:
(i) grants for group-owned assets that create income-earning opportunities for the poor;
(ii) grants for group-owned assets as the entry point for building up the capabilities of women's
groups to operate their own savings and credit facilities for members of the group.
However, this approach will be attempted only where there are strong intermediaries to
support the women's groups and is permissible under the legal framework.
While the project will be demand based, examples of activites could involve:
*    handicraft production
*    rearing of small animals or poultry
*    production of food items
*    labor-saving devices (e.g., enset production, grinding equipment, inset scraping and so on)
*    organization of day care center with a nutrition training component or
*    other such activities determined by the women's groups
The criteria for evaluating activities are kept as simple as possible and are stated below. Guidelines
and training are planned for all actors at different levels.
General                  * is the investment justified?
* women's groups have basic skills;
* proposed activity should be one that is socially acceptable and does not
result in an illegal activity nor in unfair competition; and
* proposed activity has no adverse environmental impact.
Incorme Generating       * proposal indicates a satisfactory assessment of the marketability of the
Aspects                       product/service;
*  local availability of raw materials;
* availability of facility for production/service, where necessary; and
* adequate level of profitability based on nature and locality of activity.
Labor Saving Devices     * # of beneficiaries;
* is the required infrastructure (utilities) available?
*  is the technology appropriate?
*  is it financeable by another agency, particularly ESRDF?
Environment              * If it involves use of land, is such land available?
* Does the project have an impact on the local community?
Implementation. The structure of the Grassroots Fund will be organized in a decentralized manner in
which the actual decision making power regarding project approval and implementation lies at regional
level or even woreda level. The central structure's role will be supervision and coordination of the activities
- 35 -



of regional organs and reviewing the major policies, principles and operational guidelines of the Fund. The
Grassroots Fund shall have the following organs:
*     National Steering Committee (NSC)
*     A Central Coordinating Unit (CCU)
*     Regional Steering Committees (RSC)
*      Regional/Zonal/Wereda Coordinating Units (R/Z/WCU) depending on capacity of the region.
The Steering Committees at all levels will have critical sector representative, private sector representatives,
NGO members and members of the community. In some cases, membership will be on a rotational basis to
ensure that voices of the beneficairies are reaching the top levels.
The Central Coordinating Unit shall be kept very small and shall include:
*     Project Coordinator
*     Financial/Procurement/MIS Officer
*     Capacity Building Officer
*     Promotion/IEC Officer.
A Regional Coordinating Unit will serve as the financing window and as a secretariat for the
Regional Steering Committee within the Regional Women's Affairs Bureau. The unit will have a Regional
Coordinator who will be responsible for coordinating all activities. The unit will also include a financial
and procurement officer who will record and account for the use of funds in the region. In addition, there
will be a need for a capacity building officer, promotion/lEC officer, and MIS specialist.
In order to optimize the administrative costs in implementing the project, two or three regions may
be combined together under one Regional Coordinating Unit. While the exact structure and nature of the
coordinating units will be determined in consultation with the region, the administrative costs for the project
should not exceed 15% of the total project costs. Also, capacity building, promotion/lEC, and MIS
Officers may be shared between regions.
In regions with capacity, some of the responsibilities, including approval authority may be
delegated to wereda or kebele level. In order to provide this flexibility, guidelines for each region will
specify the exact organizational arrangements at the regional and sub-regional levels, including the
procedures for submission, review, approval, and financing of sub-projects. Such regional guidelines will
be cleared by the Central Office before funds are transferred to the regions. Such regional guidelines will
be consistent with this manual. However a few principles must be kept in mind:
*     responsibilities must be clearly stated for approval;
*     business standards must be specified (for example, specific time within which the proposal must be
cleared within receipt by the approval authority; time period for signing of contracts and fund
disbursements); and
$     appraisal process at the office of the approving entity must be clearly documented, and reasons for
rejection or return of application must be clearly recorded.
Women's groups. Women's groups may differ from region to region. In some regions, they may
consist of indigenous grassroots groups like idirs (community-based informal insurance group), iqubs
(community-based informal savings groups), and mahebers (labor sharing groups), functioning at the
village levels. Some benefits will also be channeled through more formal organizations like rural
- 36 -



cooperatives in the agricultural sector which, as a condition for the financing, are willing to increase their
women's memberships to an agreed level, and undertake activities in a manner that will benefit both male
and female members. Where women's groups are organized, the members shall be no less than ten, in order
to ensure some cost-effectiveness.
Intermediaries are organizations which will mainly provide technical assistance to women's
groups and help in organizing capacity building activities with women's groups and their facilitators. They
will also mentor the facilitators attached to each women's groups. Specifically, they will:
*     build the capacity of the group through training in identification and prioritization of their
problems, effective team building, group management, bookkeeping, market assessment, business
development etc.
*     interface with local government officials and intervene with community elders as needed;
*     provide technical assistance and articulate the proposal for women's group into a technically
acceptable form;
*     review and vet proposals submitted by facilitators and finalize for submission to RCU;
*     mentor the group facilitator; and
*     monitor and evaluate the activities within their jurisdiction periodically.
Where Intermediaries do not have adequate skills, each coordinating unit may nominate an expert to
assist on technical matters.
To facilitate this, each Region will maintain a data base of Technical Support Experts (TSE) who would
provide the technical expertise required to help plan, implement and monitor the income generating
activities. TSEs will largely comprise hand-picked talents from Government agencies/departments, NGO'
s, individual volunteers, etc. who have the expertise and commitment required for the GF. They will be
contracted on a need-basis; government employees will be paid only a per diem and travel expenses,
determined by the Regional Steering Committee as specified in the regional guidelines.
Group Facilitators will be hired for each Women's Group, after they have been identified by the
intermediaries in consultation with the women's groups themselves and the community. A facilitator may
be assigned to at least three groups. Wherever possible they will be women and preference will be given to
high-school leavers. The major roles of facilitator include the following:
*     assist groups in articulating their needs and identifying priority demands;
*     support the group in preparing action plans for GF funding;
*     support the maintenance of attendance and meeting minutes registers;
*     maintenance of cash-books and ledgers;
*     providing assistance in delivery of IEC messages; and
*     if required by the intermediary, assist in facilitating group formation.
Capacity building and training to strengthen women's group is included under this component, while
capacity building at all other levels will come under the capacity building component.
Grassroots Management Training. Development of training manuals and modules is already
underway. Such manuals will be developed in a participatory manner that will not only result in the
production of the manuals and modules, but will also involve the training of trainers across the regions. The
process has already started with a workshop that was held in April 1999 and a training of master trainers
workshop in August 1999. It is expected that the trainers with their final training manuals would be ready
six months after credit effectiveness.
- 37 -



Simple skills training would also be provided to women's groups. However, the need for such
training will have to be identified by women themselves, and determined in consultation with their
intermediary. The intermediary will then place the request before the Regional Coordinating Unit who
would then decide how and where to give such training, after compiling such requests from the different
intermediaries in the region.
To strengthen the capacity of Womens Groups to benefit from the sharing of experiences, to
maximize business opportunities, and obtain recognition of and support from the local authorities in dealing
with their various social and other economic problems, it will be necessary for women's groups to
gradually build up a network starting from the wereda level. This is detailed in the project implementation
manual.
Promotional Activities. It is expected that a strong promotional campaign will be undertaken during the
initial period after credit effectiveness. While such activities will be contracted out, it will aim to target
specific geographic areas, namely poor districts, so as to provide information to women from poor
households on the availability of opportunities under the project. It will target both men and women so that
to the extent possible the decision of the women to join these activities will be supported by their partners
and elders. PRAs indicate that household/community support is an important determinant of the
involvement of women.
Intermediaries. The GIF will implement activities through a number of intermediaries. These
intermediaries will undertake the social intermediation necessary to assist women's groups to organize
themselves, identify and determine priorities, and prepare project proposals. They will also help the project
identify the training needs of the women's group and facilitate the arrangement of training, if they are not
trained to do so. Intermediaries could also include NGOs, church organizations, women's or development
associations at the kebele or village-level. Where they do not exist, extension agents or other such staff at
the district or kebele level may be utilized.
Project Component 2 - US$1.80 million
Institutional Strenethening Component: This component consists of three sub-components:
Sub-component (A) Capacity Building (US $.62 million)
A preliminary assessment has been carried out which focuses on the capacity and intent of
stakeholders likely to be involved in project implementation. Clearly, the capacity of many stakeholders is
weak, and therefore capacity building will be an integral and important part of project design. In fact, it is
possible that the first nine months of the project may entirely consist of capacity building activities only.
Capacity building will take place at two levels:
The capacity of intermediaries, Women's Affairs Bureaus, the Fund's Coordinating Units and
other stake holders is a critical factor for the sustainability of activities financed by the project. Therefore,
the Fund will support capacity building activities targeted to beneficiaries, intermediaries, Women's Affairs
Bureaus, the Fund's Coordinating Units and other stakeholders.
At the level of intermediaries the capacity building effort will concentrate in raising the capacity
of intermediaries in skills on group organization, facilitation, training of grassroots beneficiaries, project
- 38 -



designing, appraisal, monitoring, evaluation reporting etc. Also, there will be strong focus on the
strengthening of indigenous and community based organizations within the districts in order to leave behind
stronger capacity for supporting development interventions at the end of the project activity.
The capacity building activity will also target Fund staff and other stakeholders of the project at
central, regional, district and village level to ensure effective planning, implementation, management and
sustaiinability of projects. Training, workshop and seminars aimed at raising the appreciation and
understanding of gender and environment issues, developing skills in community participation and
mobilization, planning, implementation, monitoring and management of self help projects will be supported
by the Fund.
In addition to the training of trainers session for the Grassroots Management, at least five to ten
people from each region, in which the Fund will operate, will be trained as part of the capacity building
effort of the Fund to support project activities. These people will be used to give technical support to the
project staff, intermediaries and facilitators as necessary on a need basis. Initially, the Fund will use
consultants with appropriate skills to implement the capacity building activities. In addition, institutions
and individuals with the required skills available at regional or district level will be used as resource
persons.
Sub-component (B)Information. Education & Communication (US$0.7 million)
Objectives and Activities. The Project will finance a well designed IEC program aimed at increasing the
awareness of both men and women on a number of social and legal issues in a gender sensitive fashion.
Specific messages will be selected in consultation with the local authorities, and will be delivered by
intennediaries, keeping in mind the fact that a large number of both men and women do not have access to
conventional media like newspapers, televisions or radios. A separate IEC Manual is being prepared. The
IEC component will also include a Role Model sub-component that will provide small honoraria to
successful Ethiopian women at national, regional, and community levels, to share their experiences and
help promote some of the IEC messages with both men and women.
Implementation. Private intenmediaries would be used to design and implement different types of innovative
campaigns to reach women at the grassroots level. Different media will be used to reach poor households
in a social context where the majority of men and women are illiterate and where conventional forms of
IEC tools like radios and television are not widely used. Separate guidelines will be prepared for the IEC
component, which will be tested under the PHRD grant and finalized by August, 2000.
Sub-component (C) Monitoring and Evaluation (US $.46 million)
Monitoring of project implementation and the evaluation of the impact of the project on the
socio-economic status of beneficiaries will be conducted in a participatory manner. The implementing
agency, beneficiaries, the RCU and other stakeholders will jointly and continuously monitor and evaluate
the progress and the impact of sub-projects. Stakeholders, such as Wereda, Kebele and other village level
organizations, which are very close to the sub projects, will also play a strong role in the monitoring and
evaluation of projects. In addition, the project will finance independent evaluations periodically to
understand the outcome and impact of these activities. These will involve qualitative assessments that will
take into consideration the views of beneficiaries.
- 39 -



Regular monitoring tools will be monthly sub-project progress report submitted by the intermediary
to the RCU and project visit reports of the Capacity Building Officer. The monthly progress report of the
intermediary will include the implementation status of project activities, financial status i.e. funds received
and used/unused; and problems encountered and measures taken to solve them.
The monitoring and evaluation will be conducted against indicators identified in the project
proposal (action plan) and according to the monitoring and evaluation schedule indicated in the Financing
Agreement, as well as overall indicators outlined in the DCA.
The coordination of the follow-up and evaluation of completed sub-projects will be the
responsibility of the RCU/ZCU/WCU. They will make arrangements, involving all major stakeholders, to
ensure completed sub-projects are visited and their impact on the beneficiaries assessed. The reports of
such evaluations should be used to provide feed back for planning.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.73 million
Project Management
The Project Management component will cover the administrative costs of the project. In projects
like this, administrative costs are usually higher but the costs will be controlled by ensuring that activities
are clustered together in selected districts to reduce the supervision and mentoring costs that these activities
will need. This will cover all salaries, equipment, 12 vehicles, supplies and materials. Also, administrative
costs will be monitored to ensure that recurrent costs incurred do not exceed 15% of the total project costs.
-40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ETHIOPIA: WID
Local       Foreign        Total 
pf*    co Costy Compnent                 US $m        US $millon   U SmWion
Grassroots Fund                                            4.43                       4.43
Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building, IEC, MIS   1.65         0.17          1.82
Project Management                                         1.41         0.30          1.71
Total Baseline Cost                                        7.49         0.47          7.96
Physical Contingencies                                    0.62         0.05          0.67
Price Contingencies                                      -0.64         0.02         -0.62
Total Project Costs              7.47          0.54         8.01
Total Financing Required               7.47          0.54         8.01
-41 -



Annex 4
ETHIOPIA: WID
Economic Analysis
The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) demonstrated its firm commitment to
addressing gender differentials in access and welfare outcomes through equitable socio-economic
interventions with the establishment of the National Policy on Women in 1993 and the promulgation
of the new Constitution in 1994. The National Policy on Women aims to institutionalize the political
and socioeconomic rights of women by creating appropriate structures in government institutions so
that public policies and interventions are gender-sensitive and geared towards ensuring equitable
development for all Ethiopians.
The detailed economic analysis of the WDIP (which is available in the project file upon
request) does the following:
1) Examines the links between the WDIP and the World Bank' s country assistance strategy and other
sector work and assesses whether or not the proposed project is within an appropriate sector policy
framework;
2) Deterrnines the rationale for public intervention;
3) Ascertains the fiscal impact of the proposed project given available funds and other constraints;
4) Estimates the costs and examines the likely financial returns and other benefits of WDIP; and
5) Assesses the constraints and risks in the sustainability of the WDIP.
This section of the PAD focuses on points 2) through 5), noting that other sections of the
PAD have already established how WDIP is well linked with the Country Assistance Strategy, as well
as how it specifically addresses the issues raised in recent relevant sector work such as the Ethiopia
Social Sector Report; the participatory appraisals, and the FDRE-WB publication on Implementing
the National Policy on Women.
a.    Rationale for Public Involvement.
There are two main reasons for government involvement: imperfect credit markets and
poverty alleviation. This project targets women's groups in selected poor districts who would not have
access to funds from other financial institutions under normal circumstances. These groups are
comprised of women who need funds and training to be able to undertake income generating activities
but who are poor, illiterate, or school drop-outs, and who have not been able to access microfinancing.
The counterfactual would have been to rely on the private sector and NGOs. The private
sector, in particular, might be reluctant to pursue the types of activities supported by WDIP because
financing and training poor women pose significant risks and is likely to yield greater social benefits
rather than financial benefits. On the other hand, while there are NGOs that do provide training and
grant financing to women's groups, their coverage tends to be limited to more accessible, developed
regions, especially in Region 14 (Addis Ababa). This very limited coverage leaves poor women in
remote, underserved areas to rely on friends and/or relatives for small sums of money or money-
lenders who tend to charge high interest rates that can reach as high as 240% per annum [Inverso
(1998); WB PRAs (1998)]. This project will operate on a grant basis in selected poor districts in all
the regions, providing management and skills training, and small funds to support productive activities
of poor women's groups whose action plans are approved based on established criteria.
-42 -



Given our assessment of the current micro-enterprise financing situation in Ethiopia, there are
no other existing private financial institutions and NGOs that allocate funds on a grant basis to train
poor women and finance their business activities on the same scale proposed in this project. For
example, Redd Bama and World Vision also provide grants and training to poor women but on a
significantly smaller scale. For example, Redd Bama has provided grants worth about US$10,000
each in Addis Ababa and the Wolayita zone in the South. In Addis Ababa, it has reached only 368
women out of 6,000 beneficiaries. On the other hand, WDIP will target women's groups in selected
poor districts in all regions, and provide business skills training, equipment and other relevant
technology, and seed money. The grassroots initiatives fund component of this project amounts to
US$4.46 million.
Group facilitators, intermediaries and relevant government agencies will also be trained to
oversee and deliver project services to women's groups through WDIP's capacity building component.
The institutional strengthening component of this project includes capacity building and training, IEC,
and MIS and M & E, amounting in total to about US$1.8 million.
There are also public goods aspects to the project because its IEC component will train
women and communities on issues regarding: legal awareness, environment conservation, health and
nutrition.
On the other hand, in order to not impose additional burdens on the existing limited
implementation capacity of the government and in order to minimize the transactions costs for poor
women, NGOs, and other local associations (such as community based organizations, private
voluntary organization, and idirs) that are located near the target groups will be identified to serve as
intermiediaries to provide technical assistance to women's groups, and help in organizing capacity
building activities within women's groups and facilitators. These intermediaries will be chosen based
on certain criteria and will be required to undergo training after being selected. Facilitators will also
be selected by communities and trained by the intermediaries to mobilize existing women's groups and
also assist in the formation of additional women's groups. They are expected to work closely with
women's groups in preparing their business plans, maintaining their group financial records, and other
support activities as defined in the project operational manual.
The government and internediaries would also need to actively engage communities in this
project because unless communities are well-informed about it, understand its relevance, and accept it
then women's participation may be constrained by community disapproval. As can be gleaned from
ESRE)F's experience, once communities are on board, they are generally willing to contribute in terms
of labor and other resources. Thus, during WDIP's preparatory phase, discussions have been held
with regional representatives; at present, promotional activities, workshops, and messages are being
prepared for communities and other stakeholders.
b.    Financial Analysis
Fiscal Impact/Affordability.   Until last year, Ethiopia was benefiting annually from positive
econcmic growth since 1992/3 because of improved macro-economic management, peace and
stability, and favorable weather patterns. This positive growth has resulted in a reallocation of
govermnent funds from military expenditures to socio-economic infrastructure (especially road
construction); as well as to the social sectors, particularly in education and health. However,
variations in economic output are expected to continue in the short to medium term due to the
country's high dependence on the agricultural sector. Moreover, the uncertainty of the resolution of
-43 -



the Ethiopia-Eritrea border dispute also has budgetary implications, with the likelihood of funds being
increasingly reallocated to defense from other sectors should the conflict escalate.
Thus, the above factors together with the limited implementation capacity of the relevant
government institutions and the pilot nature of WDIP all necessitate keeping implementation
arrangements as simple, flexible, and least cost as possible while at the same time achieving the
project's development objectives. The total cost of the five year program is US$8.01 million, with
IDA's contribution at US$5.0 million; Italy's contribution is US$1.8 million; other donors'
contribution is expected to be US$500,000; the Government's contribution is approximately
US$600,000, and the women's groups contribution is estimated at US$160,000.
Table 4.1 Financing of WDIP by Source, 2000-2005
Financing Source       Amount (in US$                  Percent of Total
M)
Government*                0.6                            8.0
Women's groups             0.16                            2.0
IDA                    5.00                           62.0
Italian Cooperation          1.8                            22.0
Other Donors               0.5                            6.0
Total                  8.01                           100.0
* Note: US $ 0.3 million in cash and US $ 0.3 million in terms of office space and related facilities
Implementation arrangements will be kept as simple as possible and will be adapted to each
region's situation and needs. At the same time it is also true that when a small project of this size is
tested nationally, the operational costs are fairly high.
Costs for establishing and operating in eleven regions (opened in a phased manner, with two
professional staff in each region) is estimated at about US$1.0 million. A number of options were
calculated for the organizational arrangements and were presented to the WAO and the regional
women's bureaus regarding having regions share offices (for example, smaller regions such as Harari,
Dire Dawa, and Somali could share an office). Depending on the number of regions who would have
been willing to share coordinating unit offices, the number of offices could have been reduced from
eleven to seven. However the alternative office sharing scenario was not immediately accepted by the
regional bureaus because they believed that this was not consistent with the government's
decentralization policy. In addition they were concerned that sharing regional offices might pose
implementation difficulties such as communication delays between the regional coordinating officers
and their own region's steering committee. They have, however, agreed to revisit this suggestion once
project implementation is underway, particularly after the first year of project implementation [it
would not be possible to share regional offices during the first year because the first phase regions
(Addis Ababa, Amhara, Afar, and Dire Dawa) are not near each other].
- 44 -



Thus, while it may not be possible to share regional unit offices, other cost-cutting measures
were explored. It was suggested, for example, that the capacity building officers, MIS, and promotion
officers would be shared by the regions, and could be rotated from one regional office to another as
each region enters into the implementation stage. Moreover, the Central Coordinating Unit will be
kept very small and will only include a project coordinator, financial/procurementlMIS officer,
capacity building, and promotion/lEC officer. The Government has agreed to this proposal during
technical appraisal and negotiations.
Moreover, in order to minimize administrative costs (and transactions costs for women's
groups), the project will rely as much as possible on existing local NGOs, indigenous associations,
and extension workers to serve as intermediaries, with their scope of functions dependent on their
capacity and availability. Group facilitators will also be hired directly from the target communities.
The development of a computerized MIS system was discussed. However, capacity in the
regions ito maintain computerized systems was unclear. Also, purchase of eleven computers,
installation of national and regional systems, training of staff and maintaining the integrity of the
information at the regional levels would significantly increase the operational costs for the project. It
was, therefore, agreed that a simple computerized system would be established initially only at the
center and the monitoring and evaluation functions undertaken manually at the regional levels.
Assuming computers are already available, the possibility of selecting one or more regions to pilot the
computerized monitoring and evaluations systems would be considered. Eighteen months after credit
effectiveness, the system would be jointly reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and a decision
made on expansion of the computerized system to the regions.
The Government advised the mission that Afar, Addis Ababa, Dire Dawa, and Amhara would
be the four regions of intervention during the first year. The Bank mission suggested that until
experience is gained and capacity is built, it would be advisable to ensure that the sub-projects are
clustered geographically to the extent possible in order to permit efficient supervision and support to
women's groups.
Phasing of the project has been planned so that capacity building activities will take place
during a large portion of the first year, after which selected districts in a few regions will start
grassroots fund activities during each year of the project until all regions are covered by the third year.
Economies of scope in the delivery of services will also be achieved because aside from
receiving grants, women's groups will also be provided with financial management training, as well as
information on health, nutrition, legal awareness, and environmental conservation.
Mix of target groups. A combination of poor women's groups (illiterate women, school
dropouts, already formed groups of women who have not been able to acquire credit from
micro-finance institutions) in selected poor districts are the intended beneficiaries of the program,
particularly its grassroots initiatives fund component which has the largest share of the project budget.
The GIF component at this pilot stage, however, may not be able to target the poorest women because
of the additional difficulty and costs of reaching them and training them.
In general, the project as it is designed is affordable and is expected to only have minimal
fiscal impact. However, since it has been designed based on a social fund type approach
(demand-driven, providing funds for productive skills training, some seed money to finance women's
entrepreneurial activities, and intermediary/institutional capacity building) using a grant mechanism,
there is no direct cost recovery mechanism involved. However, beneficiaries are expected to pay back
-45 -



the seed money used for income generating inputs plus administrative costs to their group in order to
have a revolving fund to meet future financing needs of group members. Moreover, through training,
the project will also strengthen the ability of women's groups to undertake their activities on a
self-financing basis. Nonetheless, after the end of the project, should the government decide to
continue with the current funding mechanism in order to support the remaining women's groups who
are not yet ready to avail of credit from the formal financial system, then it would need to make sure
that this is adequately budgeted for. In addition, should the project be scaled up then the additional
financial and administrative requirements of increased outreach activities, taking into account different
funding sources, would need to be examined.
c. Cost Analysis of WDIP Grassroots Initiatives Fund Component
The Grassroots Initiatives Fund Component's share of total project funds is about 56 percent
(US$4.46 million out of US$8.01 million). Estimates indicate that the project will assist in the
formation of about 800 groups benefiting around 16,000 women.
The average direct cost per beneficiary, accounting for purchase of equipment, simple
technology and construction, training, technical assistance, and inputs is estimated at US$28 1. When
other support costs such as administration, MIS/monitoring and evaluation, and IEC are included
then cost per beneficiary increases to US$501. While the total cost per beneficiary may seem high, it
covers equipment purchases, light infrastructure (for example, a tukol could be constructed to serve
as both a daycare and training center for the women's groups), small funds for raw materials for each
women's group, skills training, capacity building and other needed support (for example, supervision
and monitoring) activities. All these support activities are necessary to effectively reach a mix of poor
women's groups, some of whom may have illiterate and/or less skilled members who may need more
training and follow-up/supervision, as well as a number of whom may be located in remote areas.
A wide range of activities have been envisaged to be undertaken by poor women's groups
depending upon the resource base in the project area. The groups themselves will select the activities
appropriate to their need and circumstances. A review of studies on small-scale income generating
activities by the WDIP team indicates that women are interested in petty trading and processing and
selling of food and beverages, followed by pottery making, textile and rug weaving, and household
crafts and jewelry making. A number of them were also interested in animal husbandry. The
available studies have estimated an average financial rate of return for these activities of about 20 to
25 percent; most of these studies have been undertaken in urban areas and a lower financial rate of
return is more likely in rural and more remote areas.
d.    Benefit/Impact Analysis
Addressing Demandfor Alternative Financing Mechanisms: In a survey of NGOs and
micro-finance institutions by Inverso (1998), all of them agreed that compared with other developing
countries, the number of financial institutions operating and the range of micro-credit services offered
in Ethiopia are extremely low for a large country where about 60 percent of the population live in
poverty. These institutions lend out, on average, amounts ranging from Birr 300 to Birr 850. The
amount lent increases according as the borrower credit worthiness is established. Loans usually
finance productive activities that are mostly in traditional sectors, requiring labor and low
technological inputs such as retail trade and agro-processing. Males generally borrow to finance
farming related activities whereas women borrow to have working capital for petty trade activities.
-46 -



The participatory assessments have also emphasized, the need for micro-finance services in
Ethiopia, particularly those targeting poor women. During the PRAs, women expressed their need for
Birr 50 to Birr 500 to finance productive activities. The urban micro-enterprise survey also identifies
the lack of adequate working capital as the most binding constraint for female operators. None of the
women interviewed during the Addis Ababa Participatory Assessment had access to financial
resources from financial institutions. The Ethiopia Poverty Assessment (1998) also confirms that, in
many of the study sites, lack of access to funds for either investment in land or for start-up capital for
small businesses was identified as the major constraint to improving the incomes of the poor.
By the end of the project, it is expected that about 800 women's groups would have been
formed; approximately 16,000 women would have been recipients of training, productive and/or
labor-saving technology, and small grants for income-generating activities. It is also estimated that
about 267 facilitators and a number of intermediaries would have been trained and mobilized in all
regions.
It is envisioned that over the long term, women's involvement in economic activities will
continue to improve because of increased access to funds from their own savings and because of their
eventual integration into mainstream financial intermediation mechanisms.
Other non-pecuniary benefits: Funds and training received are likely to result in increased
productivity and incomes, as well as improved management, technical and project implementation
skills.
In addition, although it is usually difficult to quantify indicators of impact, empirical evidence
from various studies suggest that living conditions of poor women and their households improve upon
involvement in credit and saving schemes, and undertaking of some income-generating activity. The
same studies find that women's income share seems to be associated with household expenditure
patterns that are more child-oriented and with improved welfare such as improvements in health,
nutrition, and education of children (Haddad et al, 1996).
Benefits of increased awareness of legal rights, health, and nutrition, and environmental
conservation issues due to WDIP's IEC activities are also expected although these would be difficult
to quantify. Improved community awareness of gender issues is also an important benefit of this
project.
Over the long tern, women are expected to benefit from increased self-reliance,
self-confidence, and their enhanced social status in the family and community.
Project impact will be evaluated based on both quantitative and qualitative assessments. For
example key quantitative indicators would be incomes, percentage of groups still functioning after a
year; and qualitative indicators that will attempt to measure changes in attitudes and practices.
e. Project Risks and Sustainability Issues
(1) groups might be difficult to form, especially in more remote and more traditional areas.
The project will have sensitization and promotion campaigns that will introduce its activities and
importance to communities. Women will also be encouraged to identify their own funding needs based
on activities that they are already involved in and integrate these in their business proposals with the
assistance of intermediaries.
-47 -



(2) mistargeting of beneficiaries. The project will target a combination of existing groups
and newly formed women's groups. It will attempt to cover diverse social groups of poor women and
geographical areas for both efficiency and poverty alleviation reasons. Criteria for targeting will be
well defined in the grassroots fund implementation manual and intermediaries will also involve
communities in identifying potential beneficiaries.
(3) possibility of default and dropping out. Commitment and interest are required from the
group before being given grants. In particular, first, between five and ten percent up-front savings
will be required before the women's groups qualify for training and funds. Second, one criteria for
business fund approval is that groups must be willing to be trained and to attend regular group
meetings. Third, groups should have undergone grassroots management training before receiving the
grant. Probability of default or dropping out will be minimized through peer pressure and follow-up
and assistance through intermediaries. One mechanism that could reduce default rates is for
intermediaries to keep a payment history record of beneficiaries which could then be provided to
micro-finance institutions. Another option is to give out the grant in tranches depending on group
performance.
(4) mechanisms to ensure that funds are available to allow groups to continue to finance
future activities/needs. In order to minimize the financial burden on poor women, they will only be
required to pay back the portion allotted for inputs plus a percentage of the administrative expense or
service fee to the group. Amounts collected from all members will then be pooled to finance future
financing needs. Group/peer pressure is being relied upon as the main mechanism to ensure
repayment of seed money and follow-up monitoring will be done by intermediaries. The seed money
will also be given out in installments depending on group performance.
(5) grant funds might be used to finance consumption items rather than productive items as
specified in the group's business plan. The project will minimize this risk by allocating the grassroots
funds for a collective activity (for example, vegetable gardens, purchase of labor saving technology
for productive activities) which would have to have a procurement plan included in the business
proposal. Only when repayment has already been completed within the group can lending for seed
money or input purchases for individual activities take place. In addition, the project will stipulate
that as part of the group by-laws, a small percentage of group savings could be used for emergency or
consumption loans but this would have to be paid back to the group within a specified period of time.
A monitoring and supervision system will also be in place and intermediaries will be responsible for
following-up and monitoring activities.
(6) Implementation capacity constraints will be minimized by having a simple administrative
structure on the government's side, working in collaboration with non-governmental entities and local
associations who will serve as intermediaries to women's groups. The first year of the project will also
be mainly spent on capacity building and training activities, after which the first set of women's groups
business proposals will be funded from selected districts in four regions (Addis Ababa, Afar, Amhara,
and Dire Dawa) that were identified based on stakeholder discussions, with other regions being
gradually phased into grassroots fund implementation during the course of the project.
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ETHIOPIA: WID
Years Ending
| Year1 I   Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
lnvestment Costs            0.7        1.2         1.7        1.8        1.4        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1        0.2        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs           0.8         1.4       2.0         2.1        1.7        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               0.8         1.4       2.0         2.1        1.7        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.4        0.7        1.2        1.4        1.2       0.0         0.0
Govemment                   0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1       0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.3        0.6        0.6        0.5        0.3       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1        0.1       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      0.8         1.4        2.0        2.1        1.7       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
1. Expenditures for the first nine to twelve months will be for promotional, training/capacity building and IEC
activities.
2. Goveniment will pay about US$600,000 which will cover some of the expenditures for goods and works
and part of the recurrent costs of incremental costs for project activities.
3. The amount of matching funds to be generated by the project from beneficiaries is assumed to gradually
increase over time (starting at US$ .01 M for the first year to US$ 0.1 M by the fifth year of the project)
-49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ETHIOPIA: WID
Procurement
Procurement, mostly consisting of contracts of very small monetary value, will be mainly carried
out at community level. The project however will be coordinated and monitored by the regional
administrative officers located in the regional offices and for overall supervision by the Administrative and
Procurement Head at the Center. The Project Implementation Manual will outline the procurement rules
for project activities. The manual will be cleared by Bank procurement specialists and will also conform
with national regulations. The basic principles are summarized below.
Capacity Building of Project Staff. Intermediaries and Women's Groups. The Project Launch
Workshop would include a module on procurement for the project and project staff will be provided with
intensive training with the assistance of the Procurement Analyst/Specialist in the Addis Ababa Resident
Mission. The training prepared for intermediaries will also include a module for sensitizing the
intermediaries to Bank requirements of transparency and fairness. Women's Groups will also be provided
adequate procurement training related to their proposed activities under the component "Grassroots
Management Training" through the use of experienced intermediaries.
Procurement Arrangements:
(a) Procurement by Women's Groups (WGs)
Given the nature of the procurement, the small sizes of the contracts, and the wide dispersion of the
ultimate users of the funds, items will be mostly purchased on individual basis. Procurement consists
mostly of small scale purchasing and will be handled and managed by women's groups whenever possible
to enhance ownership; to ensure that the goods, works, and services are procured in a timely fashion; to
permit the use of funds for diverse needs of groups; and to permit development of grassroots artisans. A
number of measures will be taken to ensure economic and efficient procurement. First, the financial
management (essentially bookkeeping and recording) capacity of the women's groups will be strengthened
through the "grassroots management training" component. No WG will manage funds without this
training. In cases where training will not be possible, an intermediary will be appointed, in consultation
with the WG, to manage both procurement and funds.
Procurement Planning: Each Women's Group (WG) will prepare a simple action plan with
assistance of facilitators and intermediaries which will be discussed with the General Assembly
(i.e. all the women in the group; quorum is established at 66%) and endorsed by the project
intermediary assigned to the locality. As part of preparing the action plan, goods or works (if any)
to be purchased and the estimated costs for each item will be listed in the plan. This plan will be
attached to the final appraisal report for the sub-project to be forwarded to the WDIP Regional
Window. WGs will enter into a standard Memorandum of Understanding, of which the sub-project
plan and procurement plan are a part, governing the use of IDA-financed matching funds. WDIP
project will check on the eligibility of the proposed expenditures before transferring funds to the
account of the WG wherever possible and otherwise to that of the intermediary. WGs will be
encouraged to post the procurement plans as part of the process of seeking competitive bids
locally, though no contract is expected to cost above US$1,000 and other procedures for
accountability may be established.
- 50 -



Transparency in the Process of Procurement. WGs are expected to contribute, on average about
10% (at least 5% in cash and another 5% in kind) of the cost of the items being procured,
depending on the poverty rating of the community. The project will transfer matching funds to
groups only after the intermediary has verified that WGs' contributions have been deposited in an
account. However, when such banking of funds is impossible, another satisfactory arrangement
has to be made such as with a financial intermediary like an idir or ikub. The WG's personal
stake in ensuring that the funds are used economically and efficiently is high, since the matching
grant is commingled its contributions. Moreover, transfer of funds will be in tranches. When these
initial funds have been disbursed, the WG will need to report progress with the initial funds relative
to the posted action plan which also includes a list of items/services to be purchased.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Management of Procurement. The general procurement for the project will be managed and
monitored by the head of the Administrative and Financial Division in the Central Unit and by the Financial
Officer at the Regional Levels. Independent consultants will be contracted out to review and monitor
procurement in individual sub-projects on an annual basis.
Procurement Procedures and Prior Review Thresholds. Procurement will be mostly carried
out by Community Participation following simple procedures, acceptable to the Bank, specified in the
project implementation manual. All contracts for goods above US$100,000 will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding. Contracts for goods between US$30,000 and US$100,000 will be
procured through national competitive bidding. There are no works under this project except at the
grassroots level, and these contracts are expected to cost less than US$500 each. Vehicles, office
equipment and computers under the project may be procured through IAPSO at the central level.
Consultants will be hired in accordance with the Bank guidelines on Consultants. All TORs will
be subject to prior review and reviewed by IDA. For all consulting contracts with individuals, less than
US$25,000, procedures stated in the project operational manual will apply. For contracts above
US$25,000 with individuals, GOE will use shortlists and/or open advertisement mostly at national or local
level. I[t is expected that the method of consultant selection by Qualifications will be used for the
recruitnent of individual experts and intermediaries in this project.
All contracts for goods and supplies costing less than US$30,000, when procured by the Central
or local coordinating units or by the intermediary will be procured through national shopping procedures
(three quotations from reliable suppliers). The implementing group may advertise the availability of such
contracts through posting of announcements on village council walls or wherever it is commonly done in
the region. All invoices received as a response must be maintained in the records along with others that
have been solicited by the group. All invoices with addresses and telephone numbers (where they exist) in
the files. Where the award is not made to the supplier that provided the lowest bids, clear explanations
must be provided.
Purchases by women's groups are expected to be scattered and of a wide range and contracts for
goods and works are expected to cost on the average far below US$1,000 each. Community participation
methods will be used such as shopping and occasional direct purchasing. Where they are higher, the
intermediary is expected to procure the items on their behalf thorough national shopping procedures.
Procurement methods for contracts of goods and works below US$1,000 may be determined by the
intermediary in consultation with women's groups and indicated in the action plan. Wherever possible,
- 51 -



women's groups should be advised to maintain invoices for at least a period of twelve months and until
reviewed by financial officers at the regional/woreda level and ensure other accountability measures which
the group may deem necessary.
Intermediaries who will be providing a specific service may be hired as consultants, but
intermediaries who will be providing mentoring and supporting services on a continuous basis may be
considered as implementing agencies. In such cases, the implementing agreement will have to be signed on
a case by case basis. Administrative costs for the implementing agency must be negotiated, justified and
should not exceed 10% unless specifically agreed by the Regional Steering Committee. Where a
government agent is acting as the intermediary, only per diems and travel expenses may be paid. Per diems
or allowances may be paid based on official regional guidelines established by the Regional Steering
Committees but shall not exceed Birr 80 per day (or its equivalent during the course of the project), and
travel will only be paid based upon actual expenditures. The number of supervisory days allocated to the
intermediary will be agreed upon appointment. While an advance payment may be made to the
intermediary for such expenses, this category of expenses will be replenished only when the Intermediary
provides the necessary statement of expenditures accompanied by a statement of work undertaken, which is
signed by the chairtnan of the Women's Group for whom s/he rendered services. Where the work involves
work with other entities, a detailed report will be adequate.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
3 t     ;     i   W     l       l~~~~~~Pocueent IAetNhoda111_
1. Works                          0.00           0.00          0.30          0.00          0.30
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.80          1.00          0.00          1.80
(0.00)        (0.70)        (0.80)        (0.00)        (1.50)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          4.86          0.00          4.86
includes training                (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.65)        (0.00)        (2.65)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00          1.05          0.00          1.05
Recurrent costs                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.65)        (0.00)        (0.65)
Total                           0.00          0.80          7.21          0.00          8.01
(0.00)        (0.70)        (4.30)        (0.00)        (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through community participation methods, national
shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)
re-lending project funds to local government units. Includes vehicles and fax machines.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB and NCB contracts (if any) for goods shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. All works
above $50,000 shall also be subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior review will be required also for
consulting services contracts above US$75,000 and for individual consultants contracts above US$25,000
(equivalent). All TORs will be cleared with IDA.
Prior Review for the Grassroots Component: The first five action plans in each region will be subject to
the Bank's review at Resident Mission level. Post-review at 1:10 rate will be undertaken by the Bank
Resident Mission Procurement Analyst/Specialist. The regional level office of the financing window will
have the responsibility of ensuring that expenses are consistent with the approved action plan and that
procurement procedures are transparent and in line with the guidelines established in the operational
manual. In addition, after eighteen months, a qualified firm will be contracted to review and monitor
procurement in individual sub-projects.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
eoitr.,*v.it .                                     ' contractsubject 
Proc# - - -ur tt        P.ior Review
ur.0 -- - --- 'i  (1;$                       M                    fUss mHilis)
1. Works                       <5,000           Community participation     Only at RM level
2. Goods                     >$100,000               ICB /IAPSO                  YES
>30,000-100,000          NCB /IAPSO                   YES
<US$30,000                  NS
<5,000          Community Participation
3. Services                  <US$50000             >$30,000 QCBS            >$75,000 (firms)
<$30,000 CQ
>US$50000
>$25,000 (individuals)
All TORs
4. Miscellaneous            usually <1,000               NS                     100000
Community participation
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$200,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
iThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 53 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The credit proceeds will be disbursed as indicated in Table C. However, this is subject to discussion and
finalization at negotiations.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Goods (includes Vehicles and                1.50            90% of all local costs and 100% of
Equipment)                                                             foreign
Works                                      0.20             90% of all local costs and.100% of
foreign
Consulting Services for IEC/Capacity       2.65                         100%
building/MIS/training
Recurrent costs                            0.65                          70%
Total Project Costs                         5.00          _
Total                                       5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Replenishment of funds from IDA to the SA will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the
previous advance, reflected in the consolidated SOEs prepared by the Central Office. Withdrawal
applications for direct payment and special commitments will be a minimum of US$100,000.
Special account:
Disbursements from the Bank to the Central Special Account. To expedite disbursements, the Government
will open a Special Account with the National Bank of Ethiopia or any other bank acceptable to IDA,
operated by the Women's Affairs Office. WAO would also open a second account in local currency into
which the Government contribution would be deposited for local currency expenditures and operational
costs not financed by IDA. The authorized allocation for the SA will need to be determined. The
Government will deposit its initial deposit of Birr 200,000, as a condition for credit effectiveness.
Upon credit effectiveness, the Central Office would submit a withdrawal application for an initial
deposit to the Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit and the Grants or Loans administered by the
Bank for other donors to the Project, for an amount estimated at four months of disbursements. The total
budget for all centrally managed items will be retained in the SA under the financial management of WAO.
Disbursement training would be provided both to staff of the Central and Regional Units on the
requirements of the new disbursement mechanisms. During the Project launch workshop, specialized
training will be provided to staff of both the Central and Regional Offices on the requirements of the
Simplified Special Account procedures.
Disbursements from the Center to the Regional Offices: As in the ESRDF project, it is proposed that each
regional office opens a simplified special account. The Regional Units will open one account for funding
sub-projects and a separate account for administrative expenses. The Central Office will make an initial
advance into each account to cover four months of estimated expenditures and subsequent replenishments
- 54 -



will be based on SOEs submitted by Regional Units as required in the PIM. All documentation supporting
SOEs will be available at the Central and regional Offices for inspection by Bank supervision missions and
external auditors.
Disbursements from Proiect to Women's Groups: Disbursements may be made directly to the bank account
opened by the Community group upon receipt by the concerned project authority of the following
documents:
*      a summary appraisal report with recommendation/approval signed by the RCU;
*      details of the bank account to which the funds must be transferred;
*      documentary evidence of deposit by WG of at least 5% in cash of total project costs; and
*      the action plan for the sub-project.
Upon such conditions being fulfilled, the project may transfer 50% of the total project costs to the WG.
For transfer of second tranche, the project must receive:
*      a statement of expenditures of all purchases made by the WG;
*      a bank statement for the sub-project which reconciles these expenditures;
e      a brief report (one page format to be prepared) on planned and actual progress;
e      and the procurement plan for the next phase.
Financial Management: The establishment of a sound financial management and reporting system will
be a critical condition for credit effectiveness. The system will provide the borrower, IDA, and other
donors with accurate and up-to-date information regarding resources and expenditures.
Institutional Arrangements: The Central Unit in WAO as well as the Regional Units in the regions will
include qualified staff satisfactory to IDA. Through the project launch, the staff will be provided
training to the extent necessary in the efficient operation of the computerized system.
Accounting System: The Administrative and Financial head will ensure that there are well defined and
transparent financial management and reporting procedures in place, capable of producing semi-annual
and annual financial statements that will be submitted to the Steering committee. Copies will also be
sent to IDA. Prior to credit effectiveness, a Bank-approved financial management specialist will
evaluate the project's financial management and reporting system (staffing levels and skills of
accounting and financing personnel, the adequacy of the manuals, the completeness of the accounting
system, and the process for appointment of auditors). Satisfactory evaluation will be a condition for
credit effectiveness.
The PHRD financial management consultant is currently developing a financial management
manual for the Project. The manual includes, among other things, accounting polices, internal control
system, chart of accounts, reporting requirements, and auditing. Efforts are being made to make the
manual simple and user friendly. The manual includes guidelines for the National and regional
coordinating units, and Women's groups.
At the community level, all accounts will be maintained by WGs and available for inspection
by the project staff or its authorized representatives. Women's Groups will undergo grassroots
management training, which will include a module on accounting and simple bookkeeping that will be
cleared with accounting specialists within IDA. Where it is felt that Women's groups will be unable to
manage the funds in a transparent and accountable manner due to either lack of capacity or because of
- 55 -



distance from a bank, it would be possible to request them to appoint an agent (intermediary where it is
an entity as opposed to an individual) to operate the funds on their behalf.
Internal Control System. The financial manual prepared by the PHRD consultant includes a list of
internal control system mechanisms to be established before the effectiveness of the project and during
implementation. This list includes the appointment of qualified and experienced staff; adherence to the
project financial policies and guidelines; segregation of duties; reconciliation approval; and
authorization. During implementation of the project the internal control system in place should be able
to contribute to the efficient and effective operations of the project, safeguarding the assets of the
project and ensuring compliance with the financial reporting requirements of the country and the Bank.
LACI Capability. The project management unit will not apply LACI for this project until MTR. Since
the WAO financial management system will be completely new, and the capacity of the financial staff
not yet tested, disbursements will be based on the existing disbursement procedures of the Bank
according to the disbursement handbook in which payments may made through direct payments, special
commitments and SOE procedures until MTR. Prior to MTR, IDA will carry out a comprehensive and
detailed assessment of the financial management system to determine whether it will be possible to
move to disbursements being PMR based in accordance with LACI guidelines, either for the second
half of the project or at least if the LIL is scaled up. If the following agreed action plan is implemented,
the project will be LACI capable starting from the MTR:
Agreed action plan.
-Completion of the financial manual       By appraisal
-Appointment of Accountants at the        Before effectiveness
National and Regional Coordinating
Units
-Delivery of training to project accountants  At Project Launch & MTR
-Preparation of PMR for initial review    Two years after effectiveness
-Assessment of compliance with            Two years after effectiveness
the LACI guidelines by the Bank
-Preparation of PMR                       First Quarter After Mid-Term
Part of the impact of the financial management system will be the development of simple but
effective systems to support decentralization of financial and management decisions.
Financial Reporting: Until the implementation of LACI, the project is expected to prepare annual
financial statements which include balance sheet, sources and uses of funds, Special accounts
movements and SOE.
The financial statements to be produced during the LACI implementation period will include
the following and the detailed formats will be included in the financial manual of the project:
- 56 -



-Sources and Uses of Funds;
-Uses of Funds by project activities;
-Balance Sheet;
-Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursement)
-Special Accounts Statements and
-Project Cash Forecast.
All these reports should be prepared every quarter for the replenishment of the SA to be submitted to
the Bank within one month after the end of the quarter. No supporting documents are required with
these reports; however, all the documents should be kept by the coordinating units to be reviewed by the
external auditors and the Bank staff.
Audits. The project financial statements should be audited by an independent external auditor who is
acceptable to the Bank. The audit should be conducted in accordance with the international accounting
standards issued by the International Federation of Accountants. The audited financial statements
should be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The Project unit will appoint an outside evaluator to conduct year-end process and performance
audits in some randomly-selected communities, but covering all participating regions. The contracting
of auditors, for at least the first year, acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ETHIOPIA: WID
PwJ.ct ScheduleV;0;; Plan;00j00::f::  :ned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              04/15/98                     04/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      04/24/2000                    04/24/2000
Negotiations                                     04/29/2000                    05/22/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/15/2000
Prepared by:
Women's Affairs Office (WAO)
Preparation assistance:
Policy Human Resource Development Grant (TF025077) and Institutional Development Fund (TF27539)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Christine Pena                    HR Economist, Task Team leader
Gita Gopal                        Sr. Operations Evaluation Specialist, Task Team Leader (until 07,'99)
Deborah Mikesell                  Operations Analyst
Abebaw Alemayehu                  Economist and Capacity Building
Dehab Belay                       Local Consultant, PRA Specialist
Eshetu Yimer                      Financial Specialist
Krishna Pidatala                  Informatics Specialist
Michael Bamberger                 Sr. Gender Specialist/Sociologist
Prasad C. Mohan                   IEC Specialist
Anna Maria Inverso                Economist
Malati Das                        Gender Planner
Sena Gabianu                      Gender Specialist
Jerri Dell                        Grassroots Management Specialist
Marguerite Monnet                 Grassroots Management Specialist/Trainer
Endeshaw Taddesse                 PACT, NGO Specialist
G. Vijaya Raghavan                Emerging Business Specialist
Francesco Samo                    Principal Procurement Specialist
Elizabeth Adu                     Principal Counsel
Palitha Wijesinghe                Senior Disbursement Officer
Helen Giorghis Tadesse            Task Team Assistant
Samuel Haile Selassie             Procurement Officer
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ETHIOPIA: WID
A. Project Implementation Plan
Implernentation manuals for:
*      The Grassroots Women's Initiatives Fund
*      Manual for Participatory Intermediaries
*      Guidelines for Grassroots Women's Groups
*      IEC manual
*      Capacity building guidelines
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Implementing the Ethiopian National Policy for Women:
*   Social Sector Report
*   Technical Annexes for the Aide-Memoires (pre-appraisal and May technical mission)
C. Other
1. Goverment
*   Participatory Rural Assessments - Rural: Oromia, Amhara, Afar, Gambella, Urban Studies in
Addis Ababa
-   Ethiopian National Policy for Women
2. Inverso (1998). Draft Report on NGOs in Ethiopia.
B                                               B
Aide-Memiredoc Aide-memoire for technical mission & Oper-VMIDrevisedJuly.doc Draft Project Implementation
Manual
B
Womerns dac Draft guidelines for women (being tested in the field)
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ETHIOPIA: WID
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P000733       1998 Ethiopia                   AG. RESEARC & TRAIN                                 0.00      60.00       0.00      53.48       6.34       0.00
P000758       1994 Ethiopia                   CALUB ENERGY DEV. PR                                0.00      74,31       0.00      56.71      60.22       0.00
P000732       1998 Ethiopia                   EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT                         0.00     100.00       0.00      79.53      17.14       0.00
P000736       1998 Ethiopia                   ENERGY II                                           0.00     200.00       0.00     167.34      33.08      0.00
P000771       1996 Ethiopia                   ESRF 1                                              0.00     120.00      11.48      56.51      63.11     20.54
P000756       1999 Ethiopia                   HEALTH SECTOR                                       0.00     100.00       0.00      89.92      27.50       0.00
P000753       1995 Ethiopia                   NAT. FERILIZER PROJ                                0.00     120.00       0.08      23.17       4.92       0.00
P000752       1995 Ethiopia                   NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT                              0.00      22.00       0.00      11.87      12.39       0.00
P000734       1993 Ethiopia                   ROAD REHABILITATION                                 0.00      96.00       0.00      33.48      38.45       0.00
P000755       1998 Ethiopia                   ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.                                0.00     309.20       0.00     254.03      76.93       0.00
P000764       1996 Ethiopia                   WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                                0.00      35.73       0.00      19.34      22.65      0.00
Total:        0.00    1237.24        11.56      847.38    362.73      20.5
- 60 -



ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi  Plartic
Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
1999                Sheba Tannery                    5000.00      0.00   3570.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        5000.00      0.00   3570.00       0.00
-61-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ETHIOPIA: WID
Sub-                                                   9/22/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low       F                           _____
Ethionis     Africa   income       Development diamond'
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                         61.3        628      3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP Der cavita (Atlas method. USS)                       100        480       520
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billionsi                         6.1        304      1.844
Averane annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation /%J                                         2.8 /a       2.6        1.7
Labor force /%/                                           ..        2.6        1.9      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate flatest vear available. 1992-981                                  capita                         enrmilment
Povertv /% of Dooulation below national oovertv line)     45
Urban opoulation (4/ of total ooDulationl                 17         33        31
Life exoectancy at birth (vears)                          43         51        63
Infant mortalitv (Der 1,000 live births)                 107         91        69
Child malnutrition f% of children under 51                48                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of oooulalion)                    26         47        74
Illiteracv /% Of oooulation aoe f5+1                      65         42        32
Gross orimarv enrollment (8% of schoo/-aoe ODoulation)    38         77       108                   Ethiopia
Male                                                    48         84       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                  27         69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP /USS billions)                                .      7.4        6.4        6.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                     .     14.6       19.1       1.2                      Trade
Exoorts of aoods and services/GDP                 .      8.4       15.8       15.8
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                        ..     6.4        8.6        6.3
Gross national savinos/GDP                        ..     8.5       12.0       10.3
Current account balance/GDP                              -5.9      -7.1       -7.9
Interest oavments/GDP                                    0.8        1.1        1.6     Domestic
Total debt/GDP                                          98.9      149,3      149.5      Savings                      Investment
Total debt servicelexDorts                      5.9     38.9       30.5       10.8
Present value of debt/GDP                         .        ..     129.7      120.5
Present value of debt/exoorts                    ..        ..    795,0      762.5
Indebtedness
1977-87  19S8-98     1997       1998   1999-03
faverace annual orowth)
GDP                                   -0.3      3.6      5.9       -1.0        6.4                    Ethiopia
GNP Der capita                        -3.0      0.6      2.9       -4.6        3.4                    Low-income group
ExDorts of ooods and services         3.7       4.2     51.0       -9.4        7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             8
Aoriculture                                      ..    49.8        55.5       49.8     so
Industrv                                         ..    15.3         6.7        6.7
Manufacturino                                  ..       9.1 
Services                                                3 34.9     37.8       43.5     20
Private consumotion                              ..    78.7        80.0       79.4    -20      93   94   95   96   97   98
General eovernment consumption                    ..    14.8       11.4       14.3                      GDI       C 0GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                     ..    16.5       26.4       27.7
(averaoe annual arowthl                    1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%l
Aoriculture                                    -2.1       2.7       3.4      -10.3    100
Industrv                                        2.2      2.7        6.8        6.3     75
Manufacturino                                 -1.6      2.9        5.9       5.8      20
Services                                        1.6      4.8        7.1       10.4     20
Private consumotion                            -1.6      3.5       -1.0       -0.7    -25      93          95   96   97    5
General oovernment consumotion                  2.5     -1.0       13.4       31.3    -so
Gross domestic investment                       1.2      7.4        5.9       -57      -75
Imoorts of aoods and services                   0.9      2.3        1.8       11.7                   Exports     eImporls
Gross national oroduct                         -0.4      3.6        5.9       -1.8
Note: Data in fiscal years ending June30 of year shown unless otherwise indicated.
The diamonds show tour kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaue. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 62 -



EthioPia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             30
Consumer prices                                16.7     -2.4       -6.4        3.6     20
Implicit GDP deflator                                    -6.3       3.2       9.7      10            !          
Governneent finance                                                                      _      __D
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                      195    9                           e
Current revenue                                          19.0      18.2       18.0    -10
Current budget balance                                    1.9       4.4        2.2                   GDP deflator    2  CPI
Overall sujrplusideficit                                 -7.1      -5.2       -6.8
TRADE
(US$ millions.)                               1977      1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             312      391        599       602      1,500
Coffee                                                 253        355       420
Hides                                                   52         57         51     1.200
Manufaictures                                                                                                *    _    _
Total imports (cif)                             368    1,081      1,403      1,519      80
Food                                                   194    110   172                 Io j**0         _          1J
Fuel arid energy                                       109        232       246
Capital goods                                          463        515       569         o
9 93 94   95   9     5 7 
ExDort n-ice index (1995=100)                     ..      77         86        99
Imnort nrine indax (1995=1001                            11h        1t7       104               *Exports      *lImports
Terms ol trade (1995=100)                         .       65         81        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi,'llons)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   406      623      1,012      1,037     o 
Imports of goods and services                   510    1,217      1,683      1 815
Resource balance                               -105     -594       -671      -778
Net income                                       -2      -48        -43       -91
Net currant transfers                            59  204   259   349    liii,    "
Current account balance                         -47     -437       -455      -520                                      *
Financirg Items (net)                           -26      416        265       650
Changes In net reserves                          74       21        191      -129      -_
Memo:
Reserves includino oold /USS mil/lons)          260      224        584       412
tnnverIinn rate (DEC. focel/USS)                2.1       2.1        6.5       6.9
EXTERNAL DEBT end RESOURCE FLOWS /b
1977     1917       1097      1993
(USS milonis)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millionsl
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            601    7.364      9,529      9,812
I BRD                                         66        57          0         0                      9:551
IDA                                           142      601      1,604     1,832               F: 387       -     : 1,832
Total debt service                               25      249        317       114                                      C 57
IBRO                                           10       13          0         0
IDA                                             1        9         26        29                                       D 787
ComposItlon of net resource flows
Official grants                               44       346
Official creditors                            41       422         14      -209
Private creditors                              -2       72       .183        -6
Foreign direct investment                       6       -3
Portfolio equity                                0        0                                   E: 5,38
World Elank program
Commitments                                    57       50          0       769      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  35       86         64        69       - IDA     0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            5       13         15        18      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     30        73         49        51
Interest payments                               6       10         11        11
Net transfers                                 24        64         38        40
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/23/99
a. Period covers 1993-1998.
h Dfeht datA fnr 1 997 and 1 99t arn fiscal veer' nrior vearc arA nalandar veAr
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






34'                36'                38'                4'                 42'                44                 46'                48
REL) \  K                         ETHIOPIA
16'                                              ERITREA                       SEA16
0    SELECTED TOWNS
    NATIONAL CAPITAL
STATE/REGION (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
'   'N.          ~                            \             -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The State/Region names are per Article 47
- 14'         SUDAN                                         TIGRAY                                              of the Constitution of Ethiopia                   le-
/'t f     <        M~~~EKELE    <        \     a         1 ~       ~
10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| GONDER,    
K         o                  L                        >9-[ LAK                                GULF OF                     2-
- 12'                          *               fvAK                                 AFAR jAD- EN12
('G>MBELLAMHARAA
BENSHtNGUD         -  >  ~~~~~~~~KOMBOLCHA /    Lke  b 
rv   A   >         ~~DEBRE     )IIi                                                              /
The boundrKes,,colr   SEPARKOS
rlOo / %< p) / 4 \~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                                                    10-
IDIs                     HAMRAs 
NEKEMPTI           ABABA f        /              HARAR b    
j   t                 )       \ys,\ 70                GELEMSOy 
{ > > ~METU   /
- iGAMBELL                                                                                                                                                       SEA,  8-
- \                            2  V <\SE                RO                                SOMALI                      /        SOMALIA
The boundaries, colors,\     E R r            B   iW A                             ~       </
denominations and any
6' other in formation shown                                                                                                                                      6-
on this map do not    .                               y
imply, on the port of 
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal
status  of  any  territory,             (
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.
KILOMETERS a  50  i0tJ 150 200 250 300 350 400
I r 4         /   <              KECYsb             \                    /g               ;                             MILES a     50       100     150    200    250   o
;  IClGANnAKIflA, 3'                 TIK(NA                                                                   44'                 46'                48'



