Report No. PID7253
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Women's Development Initiatives (@)
Project (WID)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Social Sector Adjustment
Project ID                       ETPE50342
Borrower(s)                      FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address ACTIVITIES WILL BE IMPLEMENTED
BY SELECTED INTERMEDIARIES
Address: Ethiopia
Contact Person: H.E Tadelech Haile-Michael,
Minister in Charge of Women's
Affairs, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Tel: 251-1-118177
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         March 27, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Despite their contribution to the country's economy, mainly in the
agricultural and the informal sectors, and given the importance of their
social role, women in Ethiopia do not have equitable access to economic
resources. The gender dimension of poverty in Ethiopia and the low levels
of women's access to education and health services, employment
opportunities, and participation in the political/legal activities in the
country, are reflected in the welfare indicators provided in Table 1.
These indicators are also validated by the participatory rural appraisals
(PRAs) that have been conducted in most regions in Ethiopia. Different
Socioeconomic Roles of Men and Women. Women disproportionately bear the
burden of poverty in Ethiopia. Women are responsible for all household
chores, in addition to support they provide in agriculture and livestock
production. This is mainly a result of the gender-based division of
labor, characteristic of many traditional societies, and exacerbated by
the poor state of the environment and the lack of appropriate technology.
Only 18 percent of the population have access to clean water. Fuelwood and
cow dung remain the main sources of domestic energy for 95 percent of the
Ethiopian population. Women, therefore, spend a large part of their day
collecting water and searching for fuelwood. The lack of appropriate
technology also results in the daily pounding and grinding of grain, a
laborious task identified by women as consuming a large part of their
day. Together with other activities, this results in rural women
typically working 15-18 hours a day. Women have little or no opportunities
and time to access training/technical assistance and credit, thus they are
often unable to increase their income to overcome subsistence-level
livelihoods. To assist them in their arduous activities, women keep their
children, in particular girls, from school, perpetuating the vicious cycle
of poverty for women. Because of these differentiated roles, the impact of



development interventions is also different and, in most cases,
gender-neutral development interventions fail to benefit women
effectively, and in some cases even adversely affect women's access to
economic resources. National Policy for Women. The Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) has demonstrated its commitment to addressing
these issues and to the equitable socioeconomic development of women with
the establishment of the National Policy for Women in 1993 and the
promulgation of the new Constitution in 1994. The National Policy for
Women aims to institutionalize the political and socioeconomic rights of
women by creating appropriate structures in government institutions so
that public policies and interventions are gender-sensitive and geared
towards ensuring equitable development for all Ethiopians.Table 1. The
Gender Dimension of Poverty in EthiopiaIndicatorsMalesFemalesGross primary
enrollment rate, 1997 (percent)4827Gross secondary enrollment rate, 1997
(percent)1310Adult illiteracy rate (percent)597lMalnutrition (stunting,
under 6 years) (percent)65.263.8Malnutrition (wasting, under 6 years)
(percent)10.511.lLife expectancy (years)4952Maternal mortality (per
100,000 births)NA500-700 (450-500)*9 of   Attended BirthsNA10 (34*)t of
candidates during 1995 election8712.lNote: *SSA average; NA = not
applicableSources: WB Genderstats, Social Sector Report (1998); WB HSDP
document (1998)Implementing the National Policy for Women: As discussed in
the 1998 Government/WB Report on Implementing the Ethiopian National
Policy for Women: Institutional and Regulatory Constraints, the actual
implementation of the Women's Policy faces immense challenges. The
devolution of administrative powers to the regional authorities creates
both opportunities and difficulties for the implementation of the National
Policy. Opportunities arise in that interventions can now be geared to
address region-specific concerns; yet difficulties arise because of the
capacity constraints in administrative and service delivery at the
regional and lower administrative levels. Considerable inter-regional
variations further increase the complexity of designing and delivering
services in a gender-sensitive fashion, as does the fact that regional
development plans are largely gender-neutral. Interventions that do target
women tend to be ad hoc and self-standing projects with fairly standard
processes of delivery through formal institutions such as cooperatives and
kebeles -- institutions that women, especially those in rural areas, tend
not to actively participate in. The 1998 Government/WB report grouped the
constraints to successful WID policy implementation into three main
categories:(i) Relatively lower participation of women in development
interventions: Women are unable to benefit equitably from existing
opportunities because of a number of social, economic, and technical
reasons. While a number of these constraints stem from social and cultural
norms, many of them are also generated by project design and delivery
mechanisms that are insensitive to gender-based constraints. Also, women
are usually not part of formal groups such as cooperatives and
associations. If at all, they tend to be part of informal and traditional
groups; these groups are rarely involved in development activities. (ii)
Gender disparity in legal literacy: Though some provisions in the 1960
Civil Code of Ethiopia are discriminatory and violate the provisions of
the 1994 Ethiopian Constitution, there are a number of legal provisions
that benefit women in significant ways. However, legal literacy is very
low and most women are unaware of the positive provisions. This is a key
reason for the non-enforcement of laws in personal disputes. Access to
dispute resolution is also limited by a number of factors.(iii)
Institutional issues: Inadequate definition of responsibilities and roles
- 2 -



of women's offices, lack of institutional capacity, and insufficient
budget contribute to the ineffective and inefficient use of resources, as
well as to lack of adequate attention to mainstreaming gender
issues.Strategy to address the above constraints. While the institutional
issues will be discussed further and addressed in a holistic manner
through the ongoing sector work on Regionalization/Decentralization, this
pilot project will primarily tackle issues related to women's
participation in development interventions at the grassroots levels, and
increasing investment in human capital. The project is benefitting from
the participatory/consultative workshops organized by WAO to discuss the
proposed project with key stakeholders such as the regions and NGOs, as
well as ongoing project preparation activities being undertaken through
the Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Grant. The
Government-requested PHRD Grant has been instrumental in the development
and pre-testing of the project manuals [organizational management, IEC
(GIF promotion, health including HIV/AIDS and harmful traditional
practices, nutrition, legal literacy, and environment), finance, MIS and
monitoring and evaluation]. It has also supported the Ministry of
Justice's activities related to a review of the Family law and improving
legal literacy. In addition, WDIP is also benefiting from the
Institutional Development Fund (IDF), which has been useful in providing
technical assistance on capacity building assessments, technical studies
to assist WAO in preparing economic profiles of the most viable economic
activities of women in pilot regions as background information for GIF,
and subsequent institutional strengthening activities such as workshops on
community mobilization and gender-sensitization and skills development
training programs; as well as study tours to China and India to learn how
these countries have promoted women's income generating activities,
particularly those related to handicrafts. Linkages between the
activities undertaken through the PHRD Grant and IDF have been maintained
through frequent consultations between WAO, PHRD and IDF staff. Moreover
the IDF technical consultant is now working with the Ethiopia Resident
Mission on gender issues and hopes to continue to act as the liaison
between the IDF and WDIP teams to ensure effective coordination of
strategies and activities.
2. Objectives
Within Ethiopia's overall developmental strategy, the proposed Women's
Development Initiatives Project (WDIP), a Learning and Innovation credit,
aims to test methodologies to enhance the social and economic welfare of
households in selected poor districts by improving and increasing women's
opportunities through increased skills, productivity, and income.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has been closely involved in the sector for the last three-five
years. It co-authored with the Government a report on implementing the
Ethiopian National Policy for Women. It assisted the Government in
training a number of women's affairs staff and local consultants in the
use of participatory tools and methodologies. Participatory Rural
Appraisals (PRAs) were conducted in 9 out of the existing 11 regions, and
they have encouraged the involvement of voices of grassroots women in the
design of this WID project. The Bank provided an IDF grant to strengthen
the institutional capacity of the Women's Affairs Office and the Regional
Women's Affairs Bureaus. The Bank's presence in the area also made it
possible for the Government to leverage significant funds from other
-3 -



donors. The Government of Norway also provided the Government with US $
75,000 to undertake the PRAs and prepare the WID project. At the request
of the Government, it was managed by the Bank. The Bank is also assisting
the Government in a number of gender and law activities in Ethiopia as
part of the Gender and Law Eastern Africa Program. Also, the Bank has
assisted in designing other such decentralized arrangements for
development activities and will bring this experience to bear in the
design from Tanzania and Zambia, in addition to the experience gained in
Ethiopia itself.    The World Bank Institute has also developed a
Grassroots Management Training Program for women, the experience from
which will also be brought to bear in the design and implementation of
this project. In conclusion, the Bank will, therefore, primarily:provide
expertise to the project design and implementation given its experience in
dealing with development interventions for grassroots communities in
Ethiopia and in other countries in Africa; support training activities for
grassroots management; andassist the government in leveraging donor
financing. For example, Italy has advised the Bank team of its intention
to contribute US$2.3 million to the project.
4. Description
The WDIP aims to enhance women's participation in development
interventions by mobilizing women at the grassroots level and capitalizing
on their potential to support the development process. It will facilitate
the formation of self-help women's groups, and the strengthening of
existing grassroots groups, and will build women's capacity to act
collectively to increase the social and economic welfare of their
households. Women's groups will constitute the backbone of the project's
activities, and the organizational structure is intended to provide
support to these groups and to give community women increased voice in the
decisions affecting their lives. There are two main project components:
(a) the Grassroots Initiative Fund for Women and (b) Institutional
Strengthening Program comprised of three sub-components: (i) capacity
building, (ii) Information, Education, and Communication, and (iii)
Monitoring and Evaluation. Grassroots Initiative Fund for Women. The
Grassroots Initiatives Fund (GIF) does not identify or implement projects,
but supports the efforts of intermediaries and women's groups in
sub-project implementation and management by providing financial and
supervisory support and by enhancing their managerial and technical
capacities. The GIF is primarily a financing window and will be
demand-driven. It will provide support to women's groups to organize
themselves around productive activities, the nature of which will be
determined by the beneficiaries themselves, and in which they are
themselves willing to invest (on average, about 10% in up-front savings
from women's groups will be required in order for them to qualify for
project grants; at least 59 in cash and the other 5% could be in kind).
Given the nature of the Fund's mandate, all activities will be relatively
small, technically simple, and cost effective. The project operational
manual outlines the proposed criteria on which activities will be
assessed, for example: proposed activity should be one that is in line
with the Fund's objectives, it must be socially acceptable, should not
result in an illegal activity nor in unfair competition, and it must have
no adverse environmental impact. The cost of the proposed sub-project must
be within the limits of the Fund's support and its complexity level must
be in line with the capacity of beneficiaries. For income generating
activities, the proposal must also indicate a satisfactory assessment of
- 4 -



the marketability of the proposed product/service, local availability of
raw materials is also an important criterion, as well as the availability
of facility for production/service, where necessary. For labor-saving
devices, the appropriateness of the proposed technology will also be
assessed and whether or not it could be funded by other agencies and/or by
the ESRDF. Sustainability will be a driving principle behind all
activities and the GIF will not be involved in any way in relief or
rehabilitation activities. Examples of possible activities are:
handicraft production; rearing of small animals or poultry; production of
food items; labor-saving devices (enset production equipment such for
grinding and scraping); organization of day-care center with a nutrition
training component or other such activities determined by the women's
groups.   In consultation with the women's groups, the local coordinating
offices will select and hire appropriate intermediaries to provide the
requisite technical assistance to women's groups in the coordination,
design, implementation, monitoring, supervision and operation of their
selected activity.    Group facilitators, hired by intermediaries in
consultation with women's groups/communities, will work with women's
groups for a certain period of time to assist them in preparing their
action plans for GIF funding, attendance records, minutes registers,
cashbooks and ledgers. They might also assist intermediaries in
facilitating group formation and in delivering IEC messages.A technical
panel of experts will also be available to provide technical assistance to
women's groups on an as needed basis. Women's groups will constitute the
backbone of the project's activities. Where there are existing women's
groups in selected districts, these groups will be utilized. However, in
many cases, there may be no existing groups, and it would be necessary for
the Fund to identify and encourage the formation of women's groups.
Capacity building and training to strengthen women's group is included
under this component, while capacity building at all other levels will
come under the capacity building component. The capacity of women's
groups to undertake and manage their activities will be strengthened
through the Grassroots Management Training Program(GMTP) which could have
the following core contents: human resource management (for example, group
formation, dynamics); financial management (for example, bookkeeping,
savings and credit schemes), management (for example, identification of
business and skills requirement of the group, preparation of
sub-project);  and production and marketing.   GMTP can be adapted to the
needs of semi-illiterate or illiterate women in a variety of sectors and a
range of different soci-cultural contexts. Simple skills training would
also be provided to women's groups. The need for such training will be
identified by the women's groups themselves, and determined in
consultation with their intermediary. The intermediary will then place
the request before the Regional Coordinating Unit who would then decide
how and where to give such training, after compiling such requests from
the different intermediaries in the region.   Institutional Strengthening
Component(a) Capacity building A preliminary assessment has been carried
out which focuses on the capacity and intent of stakeholders likely to be
involved in project implementation. Clearly, the capacity of many
stakeholders is weak, and therefore capacity building will be an integral
and important part of project design. In fact, it is possible that the
first nine months of the project may consist entirely of capacity-building
activities. (i) Capacity Building for Intermediaries and Facilitators.
The intermediaries that would help to implement the project will
constitute a critical group in this project. In general, capacity
- 5 -



building efforts will focus on improving intermediary skills regarding
group organization, facilitation, training of grassroots beneficiaries,
project design, appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation reporting. Efforts
will also focus on strengthening of indigenous and community-based
organizations within poor districts. To some extent the nature of the
capacity building program will also depend on the roles and the
characteristics of the selected intermediaries and, therefore, more
specific activities would be developed immediately after selection of
intermediaries in the different regions. Group facilitators will also be
given training that would help them work effectively with women's groups.
(ii) Project Officers and Other Partners. Given the nature of the project,
all project officers, staff and other project stakeholders at different
administrative levels will be targeted to ensure that they are familiar
with the project approach and objectives and armed with technical skills
related to project planning, implementation, and management. Training
aimed at increasing the appreciation and understanding of issues related
to gender, environment, and developing community mobilization and
participation skills will also be supported.(b) Information, education and
communication (i) Objectives and Activities. The IEC component aims to
increase awareness of men and women in a number of areas like health
including HIV/AIDS and harmful traditional practices, nutrition, family
planning, sanitation, education, and legal rights and obligations.
Activities would be designed based on the findings of the Participatory
Rural Appraisals and would aim to strengthen the positive aspects of
customary laws and practices, while at the same time sensitizing the
public to the adverse aspects. Key legal messages will be based on a
study being financed by the PHRD grant which examines the inconsistencies
between the 1995 Constitution and the 1960 Civil Code to identify Family
Law revisions that would be needed to ensure the Constitutional mandate of
gender equality. Campaigns would also be conducted to increase awareness
on health, education, nutrition, family planning, environment and
children's issues. This sub-component will also involve the promotion of
some female role models, whose services will be utilized to increase
awareness of the potential opportunities for women and to convince both
men and women that the household will benefit on the whole if women are
also able to develop and avail themselves of such opportunities. (ii)
Implementation. Private sector intermediaries would be used to design and
implement different types of innovative campaigns to reach women at the
grassroots level. Different media will be used to reach poor households in
a social context where the majority of men and women are illiterate and
where conventional forms of IEC tools like radios and television are not
widely used. Separate draft guidelines have been prepared for the IEC
component, which are currently being tested under the PHRD grant and will
be finalized in April, 2000.(c)   Monitoring and evaluation    Monitoring
and Evaluation will be based on indicators identified in the project
proposal of women's groups, financing agreement, and the list contained in
the Development Credit Agreement. Regular and systematic collection of
information and relevant data to monitor progress/performance of delivery
mechanisms as well as the impact of the activities financed under the
project will be undertaken. This is essential not only to be able to
adjust the project mechanisms as necessary for effective project
implementation but also for designing the expanded phase, if such a
decision is made. At the beginning of the project, a simple, computerized
national MIS will be in established at the central level while regions
will enter data manually. Eighteen months after credit effectiveness, the
- 6 -



system would be jointly reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and a
decision made on expansion of the computerized system to the regions;
regions can then adapt it based on their needs and capacity.     As part of
the loan conditions, a Mid-term review will also be conducted and relevant
progress reports and beneficiary assesments will be prepared in time for
discussion during the MTR. The M&E Component will also finance other
participatory assessments and independent evaluations periodically.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.7
IBRD
IDA                      5
GOVERNMENT OF ITALY      2.3
Total Project Cost       8
6. Implementation
The project period will cover five years. Management of Project
Activities. Central Level. Project activities would be managed at the
regional levels, supported by a small coordinating and monitoring unit at
the central level. The central financing window will be kept small with
3-4 staff at the most to coordinate/monitor the project and report to WAO,
as well as help them to mainstream and strengthen their coordination and
monitoring responsibilities (their mandate under the National Women's
Policy). The central office could include a financial officer, a
procurement officer, a Grassroots coordinator and an MIS officer. There
will be a Central Steering Committee that will reflect a wider range of
expertise and will oversee and guide on policy and other issue (NGOs, such
as CRDA and CERTWID will be included). This Steering Committee will be
chaired by the Minister of Women's Affairs. Regional Levels. Regional
Steering Committees will oversee activities in the different regions
chaired by the head of the Regional Women's Affairs Bureau. A small
financing window would be managed from within the Women's Affairs
Bureaus. A Regional Manager for project activities would be located
within the Women's Affairs Bureau, and will report to the Steering
Committee. The Unit would include a capacity-building expert, promotion
expert, as well as a financial consultant. At the regional level, it would
be helpful if the offices were small but staff requirements kept flexible
depending on regional needs. It was also suggested that capacity building
and promotion officers could be shared by regions, with these experts
being rotated from one reigonal office to another as each region begins
its implementation phase.Depending on the capacity within the region, such
coordinating unit may be even maintained at the wereda level. This would
mean that a staff of the Regional Unit could be delegated to the wereda
level until necessary capacity is built.Implementation Arrangements. The
project would strengthen existing local structures and linkages with
grassroots entities like kebeles and development associations. There would
not be a single, uniform implementation structure for all regions, given
their varying capacity and different socioeconomic conditions. The goal
would be to avoid creating any additional heavy institutional structures
for coordination at the regional levels, and to utilize local structures
to manage project activities. However as a LIL, the project can be open to
testing out different models to see which one works best.Implementation by
Intermediaries. Intermediaries will act as implementing agencies,
-7 -



providing support in social mobilization, training, capacity building and
guidance in identifying the group's action plan.     They will also monitor
and provide implementation support to women's groups. Intermediaries can
provide a range of functions based on their qualifications and on the
established need of women's groups (e.g. wherever possible women's groups
will maintain their own finances, but in some cases the intermediary may
need to oversee the funds). The intermediaries will be chosen based on
specific pre-identified criteria to be defined in the operational manual
(e.g., track record, location or proximity to women's groups, language,
training experience). If they are from the private sector or NGOs, they
will be hired as consultants. If they are extension agents or other
government agents, they will be paid only expenses for travel and per
diems for such services.    The financial arrangements at the grassroots
level will be flexible to reflect the capacity of the groups and the
intermediaries. Extent of accountability of intermediaries would need to
be very clear in the manual. Where women's groups lack capacity and need
to be strengthened, intermediaries may be held accountable for the
women's groups' use of the funds. Annexes have been prepared with sample
agreements between women and intermediaries. It was noted that
differences between the rural and urban regions will need to be taken into
account (for example, in terms of availability of banks and literacy
rates). Capacity Building. The capacity building components will consist
of two types of activities: first, those that can be designed in advance
based on needs already identified across various groups (such as training
women's groups and intermediaries in managing the cycle); and second,
those which have to be tailor-made to meet the special needs of a group of
beneficiaries, or facilitators depending on the nature of selected
sub-projects. While project staff will actively identify capacity
building requirements, given staffing constraints, training will be
sub-contracted through a wide range of training institutions, NGOs, and
consulting specialists. In the case of the Grassroots Management
Component, a training-of-trainers approach in order to develop a network
of skilled facilitators and specialists will be utilized. As the goal will
be to create as much self-reliance at the level of the women's groups as
possible, special attention will be given to these training of trainer
programs. Technical Consultants. A panel of service providers would be
established centrally, which regional units could tap for technical
expertise. Where possible regional panels may be established, depending
on the capacity available in the region. Implementation Rules and
Guidelines. Implementation arrangements and responsibilities will be
clearly articulated in manuals, which are listed below. The Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) has been already provided to the Bank and will
be finalized after negotiation. Any changes to the PIM can be made in
consultation with the Bank. A simple set of guidelines for women's groups
is being tested with small groups of existing women and will be finalized
after negotiations. In addition, drafts have been received of the
following guidelines, all of which will be retained as drafts in order to
ensure flexibility of revision as warranted by cirumstances:An IEC manual
would provide guidelines for the legal literacy campaign, other IEC
messages, and how the role model fund would be implemented. A capacity
building manual will be developed at the regional level. Regional offices
will be in charge of capacity building and implementation is expected
through intermediaries such as CRDA. This manual is being developed
through a series of grassroots management oriented workshops; two
workshops have already taken place). A detailed financial/administrative
- 8 -



operations manual is also being finalized for review and will be available
before negotiations.An MIS manual and system is also being reviewed and
will be pre-tested and finalized by May.Grant Component: In most parts of
the country, and particularly in the target districts for this project,
the formal microfinance system is non-existent as a result of the
restrictive policies of the previous regime. Steady progress is being
made in relaxing these policies and in making a move towards a more
market-determined system, including the entry of private banks and
allowing interest rates that are positive in real terms. Small grants
ranging from Birr 50 to Birr 300 per person, will be targeted to women's
groups as an entity; the members will utilize these funds for purchase of
raw materials and other supplies needed to increase their economic
productivity. Savings by women will be a pre-requisite for receipt of the
grant and the amount will be matched with savings accumulated by each
group. Phased Manner of Implementation. Regional implementation will
occur in a phased manner, with four regions starting during the first
year, four regions during the second year and the remaining regions during
the third year. Addis Ababa, Amhara, Afar, and Dire Dawa have been
selected for project year (PY) I so as to provide learning in urban and
rural situations, as well as in regions that are in different stages of
development.Bank Supervision Plan. While the project will be closely
monitored, with the support of Resident Mission staff, a mid-term review
will take place after 30 months of project implementation to identify
project successes and problems to be addressed, and modifications that may
be needed in project procedures for the second half of the Project . The
mid-term review will be preceeded by independent consultant studies of a
sample of sub-projects by region and sector, utilizing beneficiary
participatory assessment methods.Project Evaluation & Expansion Scope.
Eighteen months before the completion of the Project , an independent
evaluation will be carried out to determine (i) whether the Project has
accomplished its objectives both in project terms and as part of the
broader poverty reduction program; (ii) the effectiveness of project
management, the institutional structure, and the operational procedures;
and (iii) the value of scaling-up project activities.
7. Sustainability
There are two aspects of sustainability that are important to the Project
. The first is the sustainability of the financing mechanism itself; and
the second is the sustainability of the improved assets, services, and
micro-ventures created through the provision of support to women's
groups.Sustainability of the Financing Mechanism. Although expanded to
the whole country, the project will begin as a pilot by promoting the Fund
among communities that have received little sustained outside support for
their own developmental initiatives. The pilot characteristic also means
that the project will actively pursue experimental approaches to women's
management and participation in small self-help activities. Also, and
perhaps most importantly, since the project is being implemented by
existing intermediaries, the actual administrative apparatus that is being
established is minimal and is more in the form of financing windows. If
successful, this project could create an important and sustainable and
relatively cheap development mechanism consistent with FDRE's poverty
reduction strategy to build the capacity of women to participate in
development activities. Sustainability of Assets and Services Financed by
the Project. The project will incorporate a number of design and
implementation mechanisms to ensure that the activities financed by the
-9-



project are likely to be sustainable. Critical factors for sustainability
include ability to motivate women who have very little time for
development activities, nature and capacity of women's groups,
identification of suitable intermediaries to provide adequate technical
assistance to women's groups, ability to appoint and retain qualified
staff, particularly at the regional levels, and ensuring total ownership
by the critical stakeholders. Thus, in order to mitigate the potential
risks that project activities are unsustainable: The first nine to twelve
months after credit effectiveness will be limited to: IEC and promotional
activities in the various regions to create demand and awareness among
targeted beneficiaries on the available benefits under the project.
Training of Trainers for grassroots management groups will be undertaken
and a series of training will take place. Grant money will be provided
only to targeted women's groups that have come together as a group,
undergone training in grassroots management, established rules and
guidelines for functioning, and have collected savings according to a
pre-determined plan. To the extent possible, appropriate intermediaries
with roots in the locality will be selected in order to increase the
likelihood that they provide the necessary mentoring until the group is
sustainable on its own. There will be a rigorous monitoring and evaluation
system that will continuously monitor the impact of project activities.
These will include a number of participatory assessments. The project
processes and procedures will be kept flexible so that it can be revised
in a timely and quick fashion to ensure maximum effectiveness.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons LearnedBased on ESRDF's experience, components with community
participation require more time and resources to implement because of the
need for capacity building: the Project, therefore, has estimated the
number of microprojects very conservatively, and estimates about nine to
twelve months of promotion, capacity building activities after credit
effectiveness. Simplicity in arrangements is another critical factor to
effective implementation. To the extent possible, the structure and
arrangements have been kept simple in this project.
Increased commitment and sustainability through community participation
and contribution. To receive assistance, women's groups will be asked to
provide upfront savings (at least 5t of total assistance being sought).
IEC and promotion measures are being undertaken to provide information to
men and women of poor households in poor districts so that women's
increased participation may to the extent possible be a joint decision of
the household rather than being seen as one addressing solely women's
concerns.
The regional background studies for the 1998 WID report indicate the need
for increased capacity at the center and regional government levels,
especially the Women's Affairs Bureaus, to effectively supervise the
implementation of the project, as well as other activities. Both IDF and
PHRD Grants are being used to strengthen supervision and implementation
capacity. For example, experts on capacity building, monitoring and
evaluation, community mobilization are being hired to provide technical
assistance in project preparation.    A good monitoring system that will
help to fine tune project implementation mechanisms. It is extremely
important to ensure baseline data for the benefiting group before
assistance is provided in order to be able to measure the impact of each
intervention. A reporting format for each microproject will be ready and
functional for this purpose before assistance is provided to women's
- 10 -



groups.Issues to be Tested before ExpansionThe project's budget for
overhead takes into account the rather slow and difficult process of
reaching and training diverse constituencies in communities that are
generally located in remote areas. Based on experiences of The World Bank
Institute, it should be expected that project administrative costs will
remain high for at least the first two years. The experience of NGOs and
the Ethiopian Rehabilitation Development Fund also suggest that a ceiling
of 20 percent for overhead costs might be more realistic rather than the
current 10 percent ceiling for administrative costs specified in the ESRDF
project's operational manual. The administrative costs will need to be
closely monitored.Size of women's groups. The size of the women's groups
must be kept at an optimum to ensure cohesiveness and support for each
other. At the same time, cost effectiveness is increased if the groups
are larger. A balance has to be struck.Existing formal organizations do
not have significant female membership; this particularly constrains women'
s development since assistance is normally delivered through these
organizations. Can the project provide incentives to such organizations,
in the form of technical assistance and training support, to increase the
percentage of women members and agree to activities that would also
benefit women? Is there an adequate number of intermediaries to implement
such a program? What are their training and capacity building needs?
Capacity of women to participate in development activities will be another
key issue. While this will be addressed through a planned and systematic
capacity building program appropriately sequenced to maximize the impact
of project funding, the costs and corresponding benefits will need to be
closely monitored.Intersectoral collaboration in addressing women's issues
will also be tested . Assistance to women can be successful only if it is
multi-sectoral. The LIL will test out mechanisms for inter-sectoral
collaboration.
The majority of poor rural Ethiopian women lead a life that appears more
difficult than their counterparts in Sub-Saharan countries like Uganda,
Kenya and Tanzania. Cultural and traditional restraints are exacerbated by
the state of the environment in Ethiopia, leaving women in most parts
struggling for survival. Within this context, how can development
assistance be provided in a meaningful manner? Will men be supportive of
such means of enhancing household welfare?Sustainability. What are the
issues related to sustainability of these grassroots activities? If the
program is to be expanded, what are the potential benefits and risks
involved?
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The project involves no major construction.    Where
construction is needed, such as for a day care center, it is expected to
be a small tukul or such indigenous structure, not involving any
environmental damage. The proposed action plans will contain a section on
possible impacts of the proposed activity(ies) on the environment and
community. At the same time, the project will encourage activities that
will protect and conserve the environment. Activities will include group
nurseries, group wood lots, and soil erosion prevention. Activities may
also involve discouraging women from depending on fuelwood sale for their
livelihood and channeling them into other productive activities that do
not adversely affect the environment. The project would also promote
actions that could help protect the environment such as hygienic (e.g.
- 11 -



sanitation and waste disposal) practices that households and communities
can adopt. Monitoring and evaluation, MIS will also try to have some
indicators that would measure the environmental effects of the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christine Lao Pena
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-5421
Fax: 202 473-8107
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 12 -



