Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3407-ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Women’s Development Initiatives Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3407-ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 2000, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Italy 
(Italy) a grant in an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 (the Italian Grant) 
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Italy (the Italian Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means,  collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a Women’s Group to whom, or for whose 
benefit, a Grant is made or proposed to be made;
(b)
“Birr” means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
“CCU” means the Central Coordination Unit under the 
supervision of WAO (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
among a RCU/WCU (as hereinafter defined) Intermediary and a Beneficiary 
for the purpose of carrying out a Micro-project;
(e)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made by RCU 
(as hereinafter defined) to finance a Micro-project;
(f)
“GIF” or “Grassroots Initiatives Fund for Women” means the 
financing window to provide Women’s Groups with technical assistance, 
training and Grants;
(g)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication 
Page  3
referred to in Part B.2 of the Project;
(h)
“Intermediary” means an individual or organization, meeting 
the criteria provided in the PIM, which shall provide technical advisory 
services to Women’s Groups and assist in organizing capacity building 
activities;
(i)
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU” means the memorandum 
between the Borrower and each Regional Women’s Bureau referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same shall be amended 
from time to time;
(j)
“Micro-project” means a specific development project 
financed or proposed to be financed, through a Grant extended under Part 
A of the Project;
(k)
“National Steering Committee” means the committee 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(l)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under 
the laws of the Borrower;
(m)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, containing inter alia guidelines and 
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Project, 
including financial, accounting, disbursement and procurement procedures 
as may be amended from time to time in consultation with the Association, 
and such term includes any schedules to the PIM;
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(o)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from 
the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the first Project 
Year), and any twelve-month beginning at the end of the First Project 
Year, or the end of subsequent Project Years;
(p)
“RCU” means a Regional Coordination Unit, within a Regional 
Women’s Bureau;
(q)
“RSC” or “Regional Steering Committee” means any of the 
committees established in each of the Project Regions referred to in 
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(s)
“WAO” means the Borrower’s Women’s Affairs Office in the 
Prime Ministers Office;
(t)
“Woreda” means the district level of Government within the 
Borrower’s territory;
(u)
“WCU” means a Woreda Coordination Unit;
(v)
“Zone” means the level of Government between the Woreda and 
Region within the Borrower’s territory; and
Page  4
(w)
“ZCU” means a Zonal Coordination Unit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a 
Beneficiary under a Grant, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, 
or services required for such Micro-project and in respect of which 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of 
Ethiopia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such 
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall establish. The 
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Page  5
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2010, and ending April 1, 2040,. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through WAO, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, technical practices and with due 
regard to environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Page  6
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Association and on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of Birr 
200,000 equivalent, the Borrower’s estimated share of counterpart funds 
for the first quarter of the first year of Project implementation, as 
shall be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association and thereafter, 
deposit at quarterly intervals into the Project Account such amounts as 
are estimated to be required for the ensuing quarter as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account 
in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used 
exclusively for expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
expansion of the Project (if any); and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
Page  7
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than nine months after the 
end of the first such year and thereafter six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than the Mid-term Review referred 
to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
Page  8
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and deposited therein the amount 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has established a financial management and 
accounting system, satisfactory to the Association for the Project;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted the action plan, referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the First Project Year, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has established the Project Coordinator 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
Page  9
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
21147
(251-1) 
551355
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Berhane Gebre Christos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  10
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
   150,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods, vehicles
 1,140,000
100% of foreign
and equipment
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Training and
 2,020,000
100% 
consultants’ 
services 
(4)
Operating costs
  490,000
70%
TOTAL
3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management, monitoring and 
auditing, including office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, 
transport, travel, per diem and supervision costs but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Borrower’s civil service; and
(d)
the term “training” includes training activities for women 
groups under the GIF, as well as for capacity building, IEC and 
monitoring and evaluation activities under Part B of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures 
under contracts for works not exceeding $50,000; (b) goods not exceeding 
$30,000 equivalent each; (c) for expenditures under contracts for 
consultants’ services provided by firms not exceeding $75,000 equivalent 
each; (d) for expenditures under contracts for consultants services 
provided by individuals not exceeding $25,000 equivalent each; and (e) 
for expenditures for training and operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objectives of the Project are to test methodologies to enhance 
the social and economic welfare of households in the Borrower’s territory 
by improving and increasing women’s opportunities in selected poor 
districts for enhancing household welfare through increased skills, 
productivity and income. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Grassroots Initiatives for Women
1.
Promotion, identification, design, appraisal, implementation, 
supervision and evaluation of Micro-projects to assist Beneficiaries to 
organize and carry out productive activities and income-generating 
activities and the provision of Grants for the financing thereof.
2.
Provision of training to Beneficiaries to increase their skills to 
carry out Micro-projects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Capacity Building
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of Beneficiaries and 
Intermediaries, in the following areas: group organization, training of 
Beneficiaries, project design, appraisal, monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting. 
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of the CCU, RCUs and WCUs at the 
central, regional, district and village level, to ensure effective 
planning, implementation, management and sustainability of 
Micro-projects.
(c)
Provision of training to raise the appreciation and 
understanding of gender and environment issues, development of skills in 
community participation and mobilization, planning, implementation, 
monitoring and management of Micro-projects.
2.
IEC:
(a)
Carrying out an IEC program aimed at increasing the 
awareness of both men and women, on social and legal issues in a gender 
sensitive manner.
(b)
Preparation of an IEC Manual.
(c)
Carrying out a Role-Model program whereby successful women 
share their experiences and promote some of the IEC messages developed 
under (a) above.
3.
Monitoring and Evaluation: 
Carrying out of a participatory monitoring and evaluation program 
of the impact of the Project on the socio-economic status of 
Beneficiaries.
Page  12
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Credits and IDA Credits” published by the Association in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of Section I of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Page  13
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, office equipment and computers may be procured from the 
United Nations Interagency Procurement  Services Office in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A.1 of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
documented in the PIM.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement 
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more and goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Association Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for Part 
Page  14
A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part A of the Project or for services estimated to 
cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIM and in 
accordance with the annual work plans to be established in accordance 
Page  15
with the provisions of paragraph 5 (d) of this Schedule. Such PIM shall 
not be amended or waived, in whole or in part, in a manner which in the 
opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect the 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
2.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project, the National Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister 
responsible for Women’s Affairs with representation from the Regional 
Affairs desk of the Prime Minister’s Office, the Gender focal departments 
of the Ministries of Agriculture, Trade and Industry, Labor and Social 
Affairs, and Justice, two NGO umbrella organizations, the Center for 
Education, Training and Research on Women in Development, the Chamber of 
Commerce and the Federal Micro and Small Scale Enterprise Development 
Agency. The Borrower may change the membership of the National Steering 
Committee as needed and inform the Association of such changes. The 
National Steering Committee shall be responsible for overseeing Project 
performance and progress and to provide policy guidance. The National 
Steering Committee shall meet on a quarterly basis.
3.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain in each Region until 
completion of the Project, Regional Steering Committees, chaired by the 
head of the Regional Women’s Affairs Bureau with representation from the 
Labor and Social Affairs, Agriculture, and Trade and Industry Bureaus, 
the Regional Manager of the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and 
Development Fund, representatives from local level administrative levels 
nominated by the RCU and of Women’s Groups. The Regional Steering 
Committees shall be responsible for overseeing Project activities in 
their respective Regions and to provide policy guidance. The Regional 
Steering Committees shall meet on a quarterly basis.
4.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Central Coordinating Unit (CCU) under the supervision of WAO. 
The CCU shall be responsible for the overall project administration, 
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and 
supervision. The CCU shall comprise, inter alia, a Project Coordinator, a 
Financial/Procurement/MIS Officer, a Capacity Building Officer, and a 
Promotion/IEC Officer, all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project as appropriate, Regional/Zonal/Woreda Coordinating Units in each 
Region/Zone/Woreda, where Project activities will take place.  Such units 
shall be responsible for the overall project administration, financial 
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and supervision in the 
Region, Zone or Wereda concerned. Each Unit shall comprise, inter alia, a 
Coordinator, and a Financial and Procurement Officer and have access to a 
Capacity Building Officer, a Promotion/IEC Specialist and MIS Specialist, 
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall, by no later than September 30, 2000, enter into 
a Memorandum of Understanding with each Regional Women’s Affairs Bureau 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, which shall include the procedures and obligations for 
implementing the Project.
7.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review or 
approval, as the case may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed annual 
work plan, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the 
forthcoming Project Year; and
(b)
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of the 
Page  16
Project, including regular Beneficiary assessments and Beneficiary 
feedback reports and Micro-projects completion reports as provided for in 
the PIM.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than three months 
after the end of each Project Year, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than one month after 
furnishing the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, such report, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
10.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no 
Micro-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that 
the Micro-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and 
in more detail in the PIM, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following:
(a)
the Micro-project shall be for a productive activity;
(b)
the Micro-project shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(c)
the Micro-project shall be economically, financially and 
technically viable, and environmentally sound, in accordance with the 
standards specified in the PIM;
(d)
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 10% of the estimated 
Micro-project costs in the form of cash, materials, labor or other 
services, with at least 5% being in the form of cash; and 
(e)
the Micro-project shall be in compliance with the standards 
set forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating 
to health, safety and environmental protection.
11.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-projects
Micro-projects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing 
Agreements, to be concluded between the relevant Coordinating Unit, the 
Beneficiary and the Intermediary as appropriate, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall 
Page  17
include the following: 
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Micro-Project in accordance 
with the PIM, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Micro-Project;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Micro-Project;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works sites, plants and construction included in the Micro-Project, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the Micro-Project; 
and
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right 
of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
Micro-Project upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under its Financing Agreement.
12.
The Borrower shall not later than eighteen months before the 
Closing Date, carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, an independent evaluation to determine (a) whether the 
Project is accomplishing its objectives, (b) the effectiveness of Project 
Management, the institutional structure and the operational procedures, 
(c) make recommendations as to whether activities under the Project 
should be expanded.
13.
The Borrower shall carry out all training, seminars and workshops 
under the Project in accordance with programs which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall, inter alia, identify: (a) 
the training, seminars and workshops envisaged; (b) the personnel to be 
trained; (c) the institutions or individuals conducting the training; (d) 
the duration of the proposed training; and (e) an estimate of the costs.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  18
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $350,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$175,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
Page  19
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association; (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
(1)
Input indicators
Page  20
(a) 
number of applications and % accepted
(b)
% of funds disbursed
(c)
average beneficiaries’ contribution as percentage of total cost
(2)
Process indicators
(a)
Project processing time compared to the standard schedule of 
submission to financing, 
financing to implementation and 
implementation to completion
(b) 
administrative costs as percentage of project costs
(c)
% of progress/supervision reports submitted on time
(3) Output 
indicators
(a) 
number of women groups established
(b) 
number and % of female and male beneficiaries reached by IEC 
messages/campaigns in each of 
the six thematic areas as specified in 
the PIM
(c) 
number and % targeted beneficiaries who have received Grassroots 
Management Training and 
skills training
(d) 
number and % of projects completed
(e)
% of funds repaid by individual beneficiaries to their group 
(f) 
Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with group-level and 
community-level outcomes
(g)
number of networking/coordinating meetings held at Woreda, Zonal, 
Regional and National levels
