                           Document of
                       The World Bank




                                               Report No:ICR134




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               (IDA-34070 IDA-3407A ITAL-24926)




                            ON A

              LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                      US$ MILLION7.16

     (US$ 1.80 MILLION LOAN & SDR 3.71 MILLION CREDIT)

                              TO

                           ETHIOPIA

                             FOR

             WOMEN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES

                        January 23, 2007




Human Development 3
Country Department AFCE3
Africa Region




                               1

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 10/31/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = Birr
                                  Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.11
                                  US$ 1.00 = Birr 8.7


                                     Fiscal Year
                                   July 1 ­ June 30




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACORD  Agency for Cooperation and Research in NGO Development
AFCE3  Eastern Africa Country Cluster : Ethiopia, Sudan
AFTKL  Africa Region's Knowledge and Learning Group
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CCU     Central Coordinating Unit
CERTWID Center for Education, Research and Training of Women in Development
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
CRDA    Christian Relief and Development Association
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
EA     Environmental Assessment
ESRDF  Ethiopian Social & Rehabilitation Development Fund
EWDF   Ethiopian Women Development Fund
FDRE   Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
GIF    Grassroots Initiatives Fund
GIS    Geographic Information System
GMT    Grassroots Management Training
GMTP   Grassroots Management Training Project
GOE    Government of Ethiopia
GTZ    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HSDP   Health Sector Development Program
IA     Implementing Agency
IAPSO  United Nations Interagency Procurement
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IDF    Institutional Development Fund
IE     Impact Evaluation
IEC    Information, Education and Communication
IRR    Internal Rate of Return



                                          2

LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL    Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI    Microfinance Institution
MIS    Management Information System
MTR    Mid-Term Review
MoFED  Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoWA   Ministry of Women's Affairs
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NSC    National Steering Committee
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIM    Project Implementation Manual
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMR    Project Management Report
PRAs   Participatory Rural Appraisals
PY     Program Year
QER    Quality Enhancement Review
R/Z/WCU Regional/Zonal/Woreda Coordinating Units
RCU     Regional Coordinating Units
RCU/ZCU Regional Coordinating Units/Zonal Coordinating
RSC    Regional Steering Committees
SA     Special Account
SDT    Skills Development Training
SHG    Self Help Groups
SNNPR  South Nations and Nationalities Peoples Region
SOEs    Statement of Expenditures
TOR    Terms of Reference
TSE    Technical Support Experts
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO  United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WAO    Women's Affairs Office
WCU
       Woreda Coordinating Units
Units
WDIP   Women's Development Initiatives Project
WG     Women's Group
WID    Women In Development




                                         3

     Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani

   Country Director: Ishac Diwan

    Sector Manager: Laura Frigenti

Project Team Leader: Endashaw Tadesse Gossa




                    4

                                         Ethiopia
                            Women Development Initiatives



                                       CONTENTS




1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4. Outputs by Component
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents
MAP




                                             5

1. Basic Information

Country:                Ethiopia              Project Name:           Women Development
                                                                      Initiatives

Project ID:             P050342               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-34070,IDA-
                                                                      3407A,ITAL-24926
ICR Date:               01/31/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                      FEDERAL

Lending Instrument:     LIL                   Borrower:               DEMOCRATIC
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
                                                                      ETHIOPIA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 3.8M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 3.7M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Ethiopia Women Affairs Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review: 04/30/1998           Effectiveness:     03/22/2001         03/22/2001
Appraisal:         03/17/2000        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          07/27/2000        Mid-term Review:                      10/31/2003
                                     Closing:           06/30/2005         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             6

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                    Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                         25               25
Other social services                                        75               75
                                               Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring        Secondary       Secondary
Participation and civic engagement               Secondary       Secondary
Gender                                           Primary         Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                  At ICR        At Approval

Vice President:                                Gobind T.        Callisto E.
                                               Nankani          Madavo

Country Director:                              Ishac Diwan      Oey Astra
                                                                Meesook
Sector Manager:                                Laura Frigenti   Arvil Van Adams

Project Team Leader:                           Endashaw Tadesse
                                               Gossa            Christine Lao Pena

ICR Team Leader:                               Adyline Waafas
                                               Ofosu-Amaah

ICR Primary Author:                            Adyline Waafas
                                               Ofosu-Amaah




                                           7

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


At the time of appraisal, the operative GoE development strategy for gender issues was the 1993
National Policy for Women in Ethiopia, which identified women's low participation in
development initiatives, gender disparity in legal literacy, and weak institutional capacity on
gender issues as key concerns. One of the main objectives of the Bank's strategy of assistance to
Ethiopia in 2000 was to promote gender-balanced poverty reduction through job creation,
agricultural inputs, and food security to assist the poorest groups. Due to a combination of social,
cultural, and legal factors, women were disproportionately represented among the poorest groups,
with relatively low human development indicators and limited access to economic resources. A
joint World Bank/GoE study had identified institutional capacity to address gender issues,
women's relatively lower participation in development interventions, and gender disparity in legal
literacy as major constraints to successful implementation of gender policy.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

This Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) aimed to test methodologies to enhance the social and
economic welfare of households in selected poor districts by improving and increasing women's
opportunities through increased skills, productivity, and income. The key indicators consisted of:
(1) Input indicators (e.g., number of IEC campaigns launched); (2) Process indicators (e.g.,
administrative costs as percentage of project costs); and (3) Output/Outcome indicators (e.g.,
number of women's groups (WGs) strengthened). (See Annexes 1, 4, and 5).

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

There was no revision of the PDO.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The primary beneficiaries were poor women members of WGs. The secondary beneficiaries
were members of the communities in which WGs were formed, and the Intermediaries,
Facilitators, and government institutions eligible to benefit from the institutional strengthening
component.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

     · Component 1. Grassroots Initiative Fund (GIF): A demand-driven financing window to
         provide financial, supervisory, and capacity-building support to enable poor women to
         organize themselves around productive activities. For income-generation activities, WGs



                                                   8

        were required to invest up to 10 percent of their own resources (5% cash, 5% in-kind).
    · Component 2. Institutional Strengthening: A capacity-building window designed to
        raise awareness of both men and women about economic, social, and legal issues;
        promote IEC on gender and development, legal literacy, nutrition, harmful traditional
        practices and HIV/AIDS, family planning, and environment; and carry out participatory
        monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
    · Component 3. Administrative/Management: This component covered administrative,
        equipment, and recurrent costs (salaries of non-civil service staff and operating costs).



6.6 Revised Components

None.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

As a LIL, the WDIP focused on experimentation and learning. As part of its design and during
implementation, WDIP tested different methodologies for increasing women's socio-economic
empowerment and addressing logistical and capacity challenges. This approach resulted in
changes in business group types, group sizes, business modalities, sequencing of training, and
IEC delivery mechanisms (see also Section 7.2). After experiencing a rapid turnover in
performance following the start-up and first phase delays and accelerating implementation after
the MTR, the project was extended by one year to allow it sufficient time to consolidate its
implementation progress and apply the lessons of a South-South learning exposure visit and other
experiences.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The WDIP's design incorporated lessons from Bank-financed projects within Ethiopia
(e.g., ESRDF) and WID projects elsewhere in Africa (The Gambia and Côte d'Ivoire).
These lessons include:

    1. Capacity building, not only for the primary beneficiaries, but for other project
        stakeholders as well, to build their supervision and implementation capacity.
    2. IEC on strategic topics for project beneficiaries and stakeholders, in recognition of the
        equal importance of socio-economic empowerment and the inclusion of community
        members and leaders to secure household and community support.
    3. Emphasis on a participatory M&E system to track project outcomes and measure
        impacts.
    4. Implementation arrangements drawn from experiences with community participation.
    5. Community participation and contribution as a mechanism to engender
        commitment and project success.




                                                 9

The WDIP's components and sub-components reflect these lessons, and decisions taken
at the project launch workshop (regarding WDIP staff training, annual work program
planning, and preparation of training manuals) and incorporated in the project
implementation manual (PIM) laid the foundation for building supervision and
implementation capacity.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The project was implemented in three phases. During each phase, the project's
geographical coverage was expanded, and, in keeping with the LIL concept, lessons from
previous phases were applied. Some of the methodologies tested and modified during
implementation are described below:
    · Phase 1 (Addis Ababa, Afar, Amhara, and Dire Dawa): One of the first modifications
        made, given the poverty levels and low socio-economic status of women in Ethiopia, was
        to change the 10% cash contribution to a flexible 5% cash contribution and 5% in-kind
        contribution, and to allow cash contributions to be paid in installments. The PAD and
        the PIM had specified maximum group size of 30, and due to high demand for the
        project and the GoE's desire to include as many beneficiaries as possible to promote
        equity, WGs consisting of 30 members were approved, creating problems such as drop
        outs and limited profitability (see Annex 5). Challenges faced during this phase included:
        staff turnover; intermittent and often weak support from the Women's Affairs Offices,
        partially because of lack of capacity to prepare GIF proposals according to established
        standards and lack of clarity about roles and responsibilities; and barriers to transmission
        and reception of IEC messages due to illiteracy. Actions taken included communication
        mechanisms to clarify roles, capacity building exercises, and recommendations to the
        Borrower to include a literacy module (this recommendation was not implemented).
    · Phase 2 (Harari, Oromia, Somali, SNNPR, and Tigray). The project initiated regular
        intra-regional learning exchanges, and organized learning exposure visits by project staff
        to South Asia. The project also introduced savings and credit schemes and federations of
        WGs. Challenges faced included lack of skills to prepare viable business proposals; lack
        of diversity in the business models adopted, which reduced the profitability of
        businesses; group dynamics within WGs; geographic dispersion of projects due to GoE's
        desire to promote equity; and lack of capable intermediaries in remote areas. Actions
        undertaken by the project included providing grassroots management training (GMT)
        prior to preparation of business proposals; diversification of group modalities; vertical
        and horizontal linkages such as connecting WGs to institutional markets (schools,
        hospitals, and the garment industry); and tapping Intermediaries from NGOs, academic
        institutions, student volunteers, and government agencies in order to expand WG's access
        to this support mechanism.
    · Phase 3 (Benshangul and Gambella). The main challenge included the possibility of
        business failure due to the late start in these regions. The actions taken included setting
        up a task force of RCU staff from earlier phase regions to assist the RCUs of these two
        regions.
Thus, implementation was characterized by learning and innovation. The project began
introducing modifications as early as project launch, and continuously sought advice and
acted on recommendations, especially from the MTR stakeholder workshop and a
Quality Enhancement Review (QER). A National Fair was organized in the first quarter


                                                   10

of 2006 to showcase project achievements.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The emphasis on a comprehensive M&E design came from previous experiences with inadequate
M&E systems in The Gambia and Côte d'Ivoire projects. The WDIP's M&E system was designed
to be participatory in order to develop the Borrower's institutional capacity and to promote civil
society involvement. Most of the specified indicators were to be collected periodically by the
Facilitators and Intermediaries as part of their support to the WGs. The extensive information
collected helped to evaluate the 623 WGs' progress in terms of profitability, conversion into
cooperatives, and readiness to graduate. Besides regular monitoring, the project carried out two
rounds of rapid assessments (the first covering a sample of WGs in 6 regions, and the second
covering all regions) and exit studies covering all regions. Given the scale of the operation,
instead of covering all regions, data on a random sample would have been adequate. Three
impact evaluations were conducted. The first covered 1,000 randomly-sampled women. The
second and third, both undertaken in 2006, covered 136 and 1,220 randomly-sampled
beneficiaries respectively. The absence of a control group in the latter two studies poses
difficulties for attributing the positive impacts recorded to the project.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated a category "c." The financial management system produced timely and
accurate reports. There were some delays in the GoE's provision of counterpart funds, resulting in
financing gaps that were addressed following reminders from the Bank to MOFED, WAO, and
the WDIP Board and Steering Committee. Internal and external audits pointed to documentation
gaps and the need to ensure internal controls.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

No post-completion operation was planned at the time of the ICR. Aide-Mémoires since 2004
(i.e., one year prior to the original closing date) indicated that the Bank and the Borrower
discussed the need for transition arrangements, but no action was taken. The existing WGs
continue to operate their businesses, although there are some concerns about their viability
without the project's continued support, raising questions sustainability of the GIF's outcomes
(Annex 4). There is high demand and enthusiasm from communities and local government
entities, as shown by continued formation of WGs and savings schemes in anticipation of WDIP-
type support.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Objectives: The continued relevance of the project's objectives is reflected in the fact that in
May 2006, the GoE adopted a five-year Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End
Poverty (PASDEP) that identified gender as one of eight pillars. Preparation of a National Action


                                                   11

Plan on Gender also highlights the priority need to focus on reducing risks and disadvantages that
disproportionately affect women. The Bank's assistance to Ethiopia targets institution building
and governance reform to accelerate pro-poor growth.

Design: Given this project's novelty in Ethiopia, the identified needs of the target beneficiaries
for capacity, skills, and income, and the government's readiness to address constraints faced by
women in participating in the development process, the project's design was highly relevant. This
is because the project emphasized capacity building for individual beneficiaries through
grassroots management training on business skills, and institutional capacity building for project
implementation and monitoring at the grassroots level through skills development and on-the-job
training for project staff and stakeholders (Annex 4).

Implementation: As a LIL, the project's emphasis on experimenting and using project-specific
lessons to make adjustments during implementation was also highly relevant. Annex 4 provides
details on the following implementation issues and the methodologies tested:

    1. of promoting women's economic and social advancement: Successful introduction of
        new group modalities, modification of group size, initiation of savings and credit
        schemes, establishment of unions, federations, and cooperatives, and facilitation of inter-
        group linkages.
    2. Capacity building through grassroots management training: Revision of the
        sequencing of GMT to ensure WGs' effective application of acquired skills.
    3. Use of Facilitators and Intermediaries: Introduction of innovative ways to support
        Intermediaries and Facilitators through links with academic and government institutions.
    4. IEC: Attempt at different promotion, dissemination, and delivery mechanisms that can
        be easily understood; and advocating the importance of a literacy module.




There were minor shortcomings such as the design of the final impact evaluation (Section 7.3)
and the high administrative costs (Annex 3). Some of these shortcomings stemmed from the
GoE's desire for nation-wide coverage so that as many poor women as possible could benefit.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The project was highly successful in achieving its development objectives. The WDIP
resulted in several positive social, economic, and livelihood outcomes for women. In
particular, the project effectively:

    1. for enhancing women's socio-economic welfare. These methodologies include
        grassroots mobilization, group-based businesses, formation of economic activity-based
        linkages, promoting business relationships between the WGs and their Intermediaries and
        Facilitators, promoting microfinance and private sector linkages, cost-effective IEC
        delivery mechanisms, and promotion of peer learning (Section 7.2).
    2. Reached 11,675 poor women in poor districts. About 60% of the members of the 627
        WGs formed were illiterate, 22% were single heads of households, 40% had no income
        prior to joining the project, and 58% were located in rural areas. (Annex 4).



                                                12

     3. Built capacity among beneficiaries and stakeholders. Through 36 skills development
         courses, the WDIP trained experts who in turn provided IEC courses to over 20,000 male
         and female beneficiaries, including 5,653 women who improved their skills and relied on
         this training to engage in WDIP-funded businesses.
     4. Enhanced economic welfare through increases in incomes, food security, and asset
         accumulation (including land purchases and household assets). Internal rates of return on
         the WGs' businesses ranged from 20-25% with variations by location, business type, and
         group size (Annex 5). This increase in incomes brought about improvements in food and
         nutrition (for 82% of the women), access to health services (78%), and access to
         education (73%).

Improved social welfare through skill enhancement (85% of women), enhanced roles in
household decision making (97%), community participation (83%), and self-reliance and
confidence (97%). As a result of their incomes, 97% of women reported changes in the attitudes
of community and family members towards them (Annex 4).

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Based on the information available for 574 WGs (92 percent), the overall IRR for this component
was estimated to be 25 percent. While cost-analysis shows variations in the IRR based on group
modality, group size, location, and business type, all cohorts show IRR of above the 10 percent
minimum required for Bank projects (Annex 5, Table 5.1).

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating is satisfactory. The project recorded many socio-economic gains for women
(Annex 4) and a 25 percent IRR for the GIF component (implying 10 percent IRR overall). These
are positive outcomes for women's empowerment and a worthwhile investment for the Borrower
and the Bank (Annex 5). Through trying different approaches, the project created and applied
lessons that are also relevant at the country and institutional levels (Sections 7 and 11).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Evidence from the exit studies, rapid assessments, and impact studies indicate that the project's
economic impacts had spillover effects on social and human development indicators, as described
in Annex 4. Health impacts include increased awareness of, and attitudinal changes about,
family planning, HIV/AIDS, and harmful traditional practices (Annex 4, Box 4.1). Gender
impacts include improvements in women's economic independence that translated into improved
intra-household decision making and greater awareness of legal rights (Annex 4, Table 4.5).
Social impacts include improved social status as evidenced by community members' positive
attitudes towards the women and appreciation of their economic contributions to the household
and the community (Annex 4, Table 4.6).




                                                 13

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The WDIP established a comprehensive institutional infrastructure at central and regional levels.
The institutional structure was a team effort comprising the CCU, eleven RCUs, WGs,
Intermediaries, and Facilitators. Capacity development achievements include the training of 193
Facilitators, 215 Intermediaries, and 322 experts on IEC topics (Table 4.3). A women's
development resources and documentation center (for electronic and hard copy WDIP documents
as well as related materials from different organizations and the South-South Learning study tour
reports) was also established, and continues to be independently run by the EWDF. To the extent
that these skills continue to be applied within Ethiopia on other projects, the impact on long-term
capacity and institutional development is likely to be considerable.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The team discussed the type of ICR to be conducted and it was agreed that because there were no
plans for a follow-up operation, a Core ICR would be prepared.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

There are two major risks that the WDIP's development outcomes will not be sustained:

        1. This is a significant risk. The likelihood that it will materialize depends on realization
        of the following risk mitigation mechanisms being set up (details in Annex 4,
        "sustainability of GIF outcomes"):

          · Establishment of horizontal and vertical market linkages for WGs' businesses.
          · Establishment of linkages to microfinance institutions, credit and insurance
              agencies.
          · Ability of the remaining 50 percent of WGs which do not currently have legal
              status as cooperatives to attain cooperative status. Such status will ensure business
              continuity, scaling up, and eligibility to benefit from a variety of cooperative
              services.
          · Creation of credit and saving schemes for the remaining 50 percent of WGs which
              currently do not have such schemes.

        2.Scaling up and follow-up beyond project closing. This is a high risk. The
        likelihood that it will materialize depends on the adoption in the near future of
        concrete plans to ensure that the project's economic and social impacts in the
        communities will continue to be sustained for a long time. The withdrawal of
        funding implies limited institutional ownership and support. The lack of a follow-



                                                  14

         up project may lead to loss of momentum, loss of the institutional capacity built,
         and diminished confidence in projects of this nature.


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The WDIP's objectives, approach, and design were strategically relevant, technically
sound, and designed to address critical needs that were embedded in the country's overall
development strategy. The project's poverty, social, and gender aspects were sound and
highlighted cross-sectoral linkages in health, education, agriculture, and private sector
development. The policy and institutional dimensions were comprehensive. Fiduciary
arrangements were standard practice that relied on annual work program budgets
(AWPBs), a project implementation manual, and training of WDIP on financial
management and procurement. There were two minor shortcomings relating to
complexity in the following areas:
     · Design. The PAD adequately identified and rated as substantial six risks: (1) ability to
         find appropriate sustainable activities for WGs; (2) capacity of these groups to produce
         required savings; (3) availability of adequate Intermediaries; (4) willingness of
         communities to permit women to participate in the project; (5) inability of poor
         households to find time to participate in project activities; and (6) ability to attract
         adequately trained staff. The design included detailed mitigation measures, such as
         incentives for group-based operation and project staff. These measures effectively
         addressed the risks, but they also contributed to complex arrangements at Federal and
         Regional levels.
     · The administrative component. Administrative costs amounted to 35 percent of overall
         project costs (Annex 3, Table 3.1). This was possibly due to a combination of factors ­
         the Bank's underestimation of the administrative costs, and the GoE's insistence on
         rolling out the project nation-wide (11 regions) to ensure equitable distribution of
         benefits. However, the Bank correctly recognized at appraisal that administrative costs of
         projects of this kind are usually higher than the norm.
At the beginning of the project, a 3-day project launch workshop was conducted to
familiarize the project's stakeholders with the design concept. The practical suggestions
on implementation arrangements that emerged at this workshop were incorporated into
the project's implementation plan. This is an indication of the inclusive process adopted
to engage all project participants in order to ensure good quality at entry and minimize
implementation challenges.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision was regular, well organized, and participatory. Implementation bottlenecks
were identified and successfully addressed. The MTR involved all stakeholders, thoroughly



                                                  15

assessed implementation progress and challenges, and recommended a number of corrective
measures. Supervision findings were expressed with candor and on a timely basis. Supervision
resources were also adequate, with a good mix of expertise. The Bank team ensured that
representatives of the co-financier (Government of Italy) participated in supervision missions and
engaged in dialogue with Government. The Bank team created a learning environment,
strengthened client institutional capacity through transfer of knowledge to and between the
project's stakeholders, and fostered a learning-by-doing approach to enhance social capital
through WGs.



There were three minor shortcomings relating to the following areas of importance for a LIL.
Monitoring of results and impacts: The project's focus on results led to an emphasis on
monitoring impacts. However, the lack of a counterfactual in the impact study with the largest
and most representative sample creates difficulties for directly attributing the very positive
impacts to WDIP (Annex 4). Documenting lessons for wider dissemination: From the
supervision reports and the MTR, it is clear that the project's many lessons were applied during
implementation. However, there was no institutional mechanism for documenting and
disseminating these lessons beyond these project-specific reports so that they can have Bank-wide
benefits. Transition arrangements: An important objective of a LIL is to experiment, learn, and
pilot prior to a larger-scale operation. Bank management was not proactive in conveying in clear
and unequivocal terms the need to make concrete plans early enough to ensure scaling up into a
larger-scale operation.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

As detailed in Annex 7, Bank staff put a high level of effort into this project in terms of appraisal,
design, and supervision. This level of effort was comparable, if not better than, a regular, large-
scale operation, and ensured good quality design and supervision. Bank performance with regard
to developing transition arrangements with the GoE did not indicate a similar level of
commitment, and because this was a LIL, the Bank's overall performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The main elements of Government's performance, described in detail in Annex 7, include:
    · High level of government ownership and commitment to the PDO.
    · Satisfactory readiness for implementation and relations with the co-financier, IC.
    · Moderately satisfactory performance on fiduciary arrangements and adequacy of M&E.
    · Moderately unsatisfactory performance on contribution of counterpart funds, nation-wide
         dissemination of project achievements, and institutional structures.

Inadequate transition arrangements. The lack of government interest and commitment jeopardized
the project's future. Staff attrition resulted from the delay in government's decision for a possible
follow-up operation. At the time of the ICR mission the lack of a budget to support the project
staff beyond three months (subsequently extended to six months) of project closing was a matter
of concern for the project's stakeholders.



                                                   16

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance

                   The main elements, also described in detail in Annex 7, include:

                       · High level of commitment and positive enabling environment,
                            which resulted in the rapid execution of the MTR
                            recommendations and brought about successful implementation.
                            Confidence in the ability and commitment of the IA facilitated the
                            decision to extend the closing date.
Ethiopia Women
Affairs Office         · Satisfactory stakeholder consultations and relations with donors.
                       · Proactive and effective resolution of implementation issues.
                       · Timely and adequate procurement practices and processes.
                       · Diligence in implementing M&E plans, despite capacity issues.

                   Lack of proactivity and effectiveness with transition arrangements. The
                   IA should have tried to involve MoWA and MoFED earlier in the
                   development of concepts and plans for project follow-up.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance was moderately satisfactory because of some shortcomings relating to
timely infusion of counterpart funds and financial management issues. The funding delays
resulted in financing gaps that required reminders from the Bank. The inadequate transition
arrangements pose a significant threat that the positive outcomes and impacts of the operation
will not be sustained (Annex 7). The lack of transition arrangements is especially worrisome in
light of: 1) the project's successful outcomes; 2) the high demand for this type of project; and 3)
the original intent to pilot this project with the objective of scaling up (Annex 4).

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

This experimental project set out to learn and innovate on ways to improve women's
socio-economic status. In principle, this is a sound and valid approach which generated
many lessons that are relevant at the project, country, and institutional levels described
below.

1. Project Level Lessons
    · Projects initiating group-based businesses have to ensure: (i) group coordination; (ii)
         a sense of commitment to and ownership of the group business; (iii) flexibility to
         diversify operations; and (iv) adequate funding based on business type and group size.
    · Effective project implementation necessitates linkages with both public and private
         sector services because of the limited scope of services and technical skills that can be



                                                   17

        provided by local implementing bodies and/or other government agencies.

    · Sustained operation and profitability of WGs call for a more carefully considered
        plan consisting of: (i) an exit strategy for Facilitators in the form of an incentive-based
        fee system; (ii) phased cash contributions by WGs to cover technical support services;
        (iii) market and institutional linkages between the WGs and appropriate formal
        institutions; (iv) plans for WGs' graduation to cooperative or other legal status; and (v)
        diversification of WGs' business portfolios.
    · Tracking of a project's strengths and weaknesses requires a simple but comprehensive
        and participatory monitoring system; and attribution of the impacts to a project requires a
        sound impact evaluation methodology.

2. Country-Level

    · It is possible to empower poor, illiterate women socially and economically through
        small-scale and group-based micro-business initiatives. Of the different types of group-
        based initiatives that this project tested, individually-operated and hybrid group
        modalities give fast return and are more profitable, less conflict prone, and easy to
        manage, and therefore the most appropriate mechanism for empowerment.
    · A prerequisite for women's empowerment is capacity enhancement through basic
        literacy, business skills development, legal literacy, and training on gender-relevant
        themes. Furthermore, the sequencing of delivery of capacity-enhancing topics is
        important for effective application of learning.
    · Investing in and sharing lessons for a broad range of stakeholders are important
        internally (e.g., the intra-regional exchanges between RCUs); externally (e.g., the South-
        South exchange visits by WDIP staff to South Asia); and institutionally (e.g., through
        good practice/lessons learned notes for internal World Bank/WDIP staff consumption).

    · A nation-wide pilot is not desirable from both financial and administrative
        perspectives, as it requires a complex and costly institutional set up.
3. Institutional Level Lessons
    · LIL methodology: Learning-by-doing is the key methodology for a LIL. This
        methodology was used very effectively and was vital for the project's success. However,
        the value of a LIL goes beyond the project's success with testing, innovating and learning
        ­ it lies in its scaling up. Such scaling up requires a long-term investment.

Transition arrangements are essential for a LIL: Differing development priorities on the
part of both government and the Bank resulted in discontinuation of support for this
project, threatening to undermine the sustainability of outcomes. The lack of transition
arrangements also raises questions about the partners' responsiveness to the high
expectations raised by this project, commitment to addressing women's economic
empowerment issues, and appreciation of the value of the LIL as a learning tool.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to factual and editorial comments, two issues were raised in the Borrower's comments
(Annex 10), relating to the reasons for the challenges faced during the first phase and the delays
in the provision of project funds. First, the comments confirmed that the challenges faced during


                                                  18

the first phase were structural ones, which this ICR refers to in Section 7.2 as capacity issues and
the lack of clarity about roles and responsibility. Second, the project documentation does not
indicate any delays in the transfer of IDA funds.


(b) Cofinanciers

The Cofinancier's comments raised two sets of issues. First is the need for explanations (of
terminology, methodology, composition of team members, TORs for the ICR mission, the
significance of a "c" environmental category, the difference between a "core ICR" and an
Intensive Learning ICR (ILI), data sources, etc.). This ICR is prepared following a standard
template, and, given space limitations it has provided details and clarifications on all relevant
topics. There was no relevant environmental issue in this project ­ either at the design stage, or
during implementation. An ILI covers the same areas as a core ICR, but, in addition, it includes
more extensive analysis and text in order to help disseminate project results for application to
new operations. No new operation is envisaged for this project. The data sources for this ICR are
the MIS system and the commissioned studies that are listed in Annex 12.



Second is the suggestion that the PAD did not include an extensive social analysis by which it
would have been easier to foresee the impact of the women's basic conditions (illiteracy,
unemployment, position inside the household) on the project. This ICR finds that the PAD did a
good social analysis of the conditions and indeed set out to address all three issues in tandem, but
it prioritized the issues of women's position inside the household and their unemployment (both
of which improved for the majority of participating women) as more likely to have broader
impact on families and communities.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 19

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

This Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) aimed to test methodologies to enhance the social and
economic welfare of households in selected poor districts by improving and increasing women's
opportunities through increased skills, productivity, and income. The key indicators consisted of:
(1) Input indicators (e.g., number of IEC campaigns launched); (2) Process indicators (e.g.,
administrative costs as percentage of project costs); and (3) Output/Outcome indicators (e.g.,
number of women's groups (WGs) strengthened). (See Annexes 1, 4, and 5).


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

There was no revision of the PDO.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                                          Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline        Original Target           Formally

                   Value      Values (from approval Revised Target           at Completion or
                                    documents)               Values            Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with group-level and community level
                outcomes
Value
(quantitative                 none                     none               High among the vast
or              none                                                      majority of beneficiaries
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2001 03/31/2001                    06/30/2006         06/30/2006
Comments        Among beneficiaries interviewed, 98% reported a change in attitudes of
(incl. %        community members towards them, 97% report enhanced self awareness, and
achievement) 94% report improved participation in household decision making (Table 4.6).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                                                          Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator      Baseline        Original Target           Formally

                   Value      Values (from approval Revised Target           at Completion or
                                    documents)               Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :    No. of women's groups created or strengthened
Value
(quantitative or 0            800 (original); revised  530                627
Qualitative)                  in MTR to be 530

Date achieved 03/30/2001 06/30/2006                    06/30/2006         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         During the WDIP's life, 1,658 WGs were formed and requested GIF funding.

achievement)     627 of these groups received GIF funding.

Indicator 2 :    Number and % of projects completed
Value            0            800 original; revised in
(quantitative or              MTR to be 530            530                623



                                                 20

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2001 06/30/2006                    06/30/2006         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The number of WGs funded exceeded the revised MTR target by 17 percent.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Proportion of target population that received training (grassroots management
                 and skills development)
Value
(quantitative or 0            All members of WGs       All members of     100%
Qualitative)                                           WGs

Date achieved 03/30/2001 06/30/2006                    06/30/2006         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Fewer women (54%) received SDT, but all women received GMT.
achievement)




                                                21

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     22

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                  Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                   Components                     Estimate    Estimate (USD  Percentage

                                                  (USD M)           M)       of Appraisal

GRASSROOTS INITIATIVE FUND                              4.46            3.27       73.32
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(CAPACITY BUILDING, INFORMATION,
EDUCATION, AND COMMUNICATION (IEC);                     1.81            1.61       88.95

AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATI ON SYSTEM
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                      1.73            2.75      158.96
                             Total Baseline Cost        8.00            7.63
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00
                             Total Project Costs        8.00
Front-end fee PPF                                       0.00            0.00       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.00            0.00       0.00
                       Total Financing Required         8.00            7.63



(b) Financing


                                             Appraisal
      Source of Funds          Type of                      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                             Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                M)        Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

  Borrower                                          0.70              5.90        842.86
  ITALY, Govt. of (Except
for Dev. Coop. Dept. -                              1.80              1.80        100.00
MOFA)
  International Development
Association (IDA)                                   5.00              5.52        110.40

  MULTIPLE DONORS                                   0.50              0.50        100.00


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           23

24

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

WDIP, an $8 million project (not including taxes and duties) financed by IDA ($5 million), a
grant from the Government of Italy ($1.8 million), and the GoE (.59m), had three components:

Component 1. Grassroots Initiatives Fund (GIF), a financing window for demand-driven
micro-subprojects owned and implemented by WGs who have organized themselves around
productive activities (maximum grant of $4,000 and 10% contribution by WGs); at a total cost of
$3.26 million. The GIF provided capacity building, training, and start-up funds to assist WGs to
organize themselves around cost-effective, relatively small, and technically simple productive
activities. The capacity building portion of the GIF was implemented through grassroots
management training on topics such as general business, financial, and human resources
management. Intermediaries and Facilitators played instrumental roles in delivering this support.
    · Intermediaries included government agency staff from relevant ministries (e.g.,
         Ministry of Agriculture) and NGOs (e.g., ProPride, Christian Children's Fund, and
         Gewane Agricultural College). They were contracted to provide training and guidance in
         identifying group businesses, monitor implementation, serve as liaisons between the
         WGs and other WDIP stakeholders, and supervise the Facilitators. In a few cases,
         prospective Intermediaries refused to sign contracts because they considered them to be
         complex.
    · Facilitators worked with WGs by providing support in preparing business and financial
         plans, market research, record and book keeping, and delivery of IEC messages.
         Facilitators' support was the most critical factor for a group's success. Because most
         members (about 60 percent) were illiterate, Facilitators performed financial
         recordkeeping tasks. The project's design unrealistically assumed that WGs would
         require Facilitators' support for only 18 months. However, by the time the project closed,
         many WGs still needed this support. Exit studies were supposed to assess the percentage
         of groups ready to graduate. The full results of the Addis region exit study show that 30
         percent of WGs were not ready to graduate. An indication of this dependency, but also a
         significant development, was the fact that some WGs were hiring their assigned
         Facilitators through their retained earnings.

Component Outcomes: In terms of outcomes, the project's MIS data show that as of June 30,
2006, 627 WGs had received WDIP support (of which 623 received GIF funding), benefiting
11,675 poor women and close to 60,000 of their family members (Table 4.1). 260 WGs (42%)
were in rural areas, while 361(58%) were urban based. 621 WGs continued to operate at the time
of project closing. While this number is lower than the original 800 WG set at project initiation, it
is 17 percent higher than the 530 target set at the MTR in 2003.

 Table 4.1. Summary Process/Output Indicators
   Number of requests received                                                            1,658
   Number of business plans prepared                                                       659
   Number of proposals approved                                                            627
   Number of proposals approved / financed                                                 623
   Animal husbandry                                                                       37%
   Commodity trade/Baltina (grains, utensils, food items, etc.)                           30%
   Homemade food and dairy products                                                       10%
   Restaurant/Café                                                                         7%
   Savings & Credit                                                                        4%
   Horticulture/Apiculture                                                                 3%



                                                   25

   Number of women beneficiaries                                                        11,675
   Number of projects completed                                                           621
 Source: MIS Data


Through its emphasis on group operation, the GIF tested modalities such as peer support, group
modality to maximize the number of beneficiaries, and business skills enhancement through
training. Reaching out to build the capacity of the target group was slow and difficult because of
high illiteracy levels; unemployment at the time of joining (44 percent); and the large number of
women heads of households (22 percent). Therefore, in addition to the insufficient 18-month
period to fully empower women to manage their businesses the phasing out strategy was
inadequate. A more realistic strategy would have involved a systematic and graduated cost
sharing arrangement between the WDIP and the WG of Facilitators' services, spread out over a
longer time frame, whereby the project could have covered 100% of Facilitators' fee during the
first 12 months, decreasing to 50% for the next 6 months and 25% for the following 6 months.
Furthermore, an incentive-based fee system should have been established for Facilitators, pegged
to the WGs' performance, with the effective transfer of knowledge to WG members as a
performance criterion. Such provisions would have increased the Facilitators' sense of ownership
of the success of the group businesses and provided a potential continuing source of employment
for them independent of the project.

Benefits and risks of different group modalities: At the beginning of the project only one
business group modality was open to the beneficiaries. Later, the project allowed diversification
into two additional modalities, primarily to address the insufficient profit generated from group-
operated businesses and also as a risk minimization strategy. Each modality presented
opportunities and challenges:

     · Group-operated businesses: Under this modality, all WG members work on, and share
         the profits from one income-generating activity. The potential limitation of this modality
         is that the business activities could engage only a few members at a time and members
         had to work in shifts. While working in shifts allowed members flexibility to manage
         household tasks, if the group size was large, the allocated time per shift could be
         inadequate to guarantee sufficient income. In fact many WGs operating group businesses
         incurred losses, and WGs with more than 22 members were the least profitable. Some
         successful group businesses introduced an innovative and incentive-based business
         management system by appointing one group member who had business management
         skills as an executive manager.
     · Individually-operated business: This modality allowed individual members to engage
         in their preferred income-generating activity by taking an interest-bearing loan (5-10
         percent) from the WDIP grant. These loans were reviewed and approved by a Loan
         Committee set up to administer the grant. Most WGs which use the individually-
         managed business modality have started saving schemes managed by the group.
     · Hybrid business: This was a mix of the above two modalities, whereby the WDIP grant
         is divided into two portions. One portion is allocated for the group business and the
         other for an interest-bearing loan to individual members, administered along the same
         lines as the individually-operated business modality. The group business profits are
         shared equally and individual business profits accrue to the individual member. For this
         type of operation, a large proportion of members' income comes from the individually-
         operated business.

The exit studies and economic analysis (Annex 5) confirm that the individually-operated and



                                                  26

hybrid group modalities are more profitable, give fast return, are less conflict prone and easy to
manage and, therefore, preferred by most WG over the group- operated businesses. Factors
contributing to individual-based businesses' success include the fact that they involved family
members (enhancing family members' commitment and learning), promoted business
diversification and credit and savings, and encouraged rapid decision making to take advantage
of market opportunities. Group businesses operated on the basis of consensus and decision
making could sometimes not be timely enough to take advantage of market prices. The final
WDIP impact study observed that the group-operated businesses had little or no division of labor
or economies of scale except in marketing, and use of traditional technologies. Transaction costs
of keeping the group together were also high. Economic viability of group businesses was
sometimes improved by reducing minimum group size (which the project did), introducing new
technology and diversifying business activity.

Positive demonstration effects. The WDIP's positive effects on members' income and social
welfare have spurred other women to replicate this success by forming their own groups and
initiating savings in anticipation of WDIP support. Although the project has reached its
absorptive capacity to support WGs, and the RCUs have stopped forming and supporting new
WGs, they continue receiving requests from such groups, which is a clear indication that the
potential for replication exists and is high.

Sustainability of GIF outcomes: The key challenge is to ensure the sustainability of GIF
investments and the outcomes listed in Table 4.2. The implementing agencies, WGs, and other
stakeholders have taken several measures to expand their abilities to operate in the future without
WDIP support. Examples include:



     1. Different linkages have been established to provide ready markets for WGs in certain
         industries. Noteworthy examples of supply chain linkages fostered by WDIP are: dairy
         producers and milk processing plants (Amhara and Oromia); animal fattening operators
         and local slaughterhouses and live animals exporters (Oromia region); accessories
         producers and local leather factories producing for export in Addis Ababa; and spice and
         food producers to universities, hospitals, prisons etc. (Addis Ababa, Benshangul and
         Amhara).
     2. Linking WGs to local Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) to facilitate access to credit to
         expand their businesses in Tigray and Dire Dawa. Access to MFIs in other regions is not
         easily available because of the limited coverage of MFIs. The WDIP's support was
         deliberately focused on areas where MFIs were not active to avoid competition with
         MFIs. As most WGs have now acquired legal status and are operating viable businesses,
         MFIs could be encouraged to expand their services to the areas where successful WGs
         are operating.
     3. Attaining legal status as cooperatives. In August 2006, 263 WGs had secured
         cooperative licenses, while 310 were undergoing the process of securing licenses.
         Cooperative status is an important strategy that ensures business continuity and scaling
         up of WGs' activities, and secures the confidence of WGs' business partners. Other
         benefits of legal status include eligibility to bid in public tenders, tax exemption, and
         access to different government services (including annual audit services, training, credit,
         and product promotion) all of which enhance business growth and sustainability.
     4. Creation of credit and saving schemes: Through the project's efforts, 310 WGs have
         started credit and saving schemes. These schemes would facilitate an increase in group
         capital (through the interest generated from members' loans from the group capital) and



                                                   27

         thereby strengthen the sustainability of the groups.



Table 4.2. Outcome Indicators
 Number of active women groups                                                          621
 Number of active women beneficiaries                                                  9,945
 Number of women groups transformed to cooperatives                                     263
 Number of women groups undergoing the process of securing the license                  310
 Number of women groups with credit and saving schemes                                  310
 % women groups ready to graduate and exit (data available only for Addis)              70%
Source: MIS Data


Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for (a) capacity building program ($0.63 million)
for Intermediaries and Facilitators who will support WGs with organization, facilitation, training,
project design, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting; capacity building for the
CCU, RCUs and other implementing units to ensure effective planning, implementation,
management, and sustainability of micro-projects; and providing training to WGs; (b) IEC
program ($0.72 million) for increasing awareness of both men and women on social and legal
issues; and (c) participatory monitoring and evaluation program ($0.46 million) to track the
project's indicators and assess the project's impact on beneficiaries' socio-economic status.

The World Bank's sourcebook on empowerment says, "information is power...." In the
communities of the developing world, poor people are usually denied information or, where no
information is available, are unable to access it. Poor people are dependent on a few well-
informed (or sometimes not so well-informed) local leaders for information. This information
governs most of their actions and results in continuation of traditional practices which at times do
not have any practical benefit and in some cases are harmful (e.g., female genital mutilation).
Ensuring access to information is particularly important in the wake of rising HIV/AIDS
prevalence, environmental degradation, and gender inequalities. For poor people to take effective
action, it is important that they are provided relevant and easily understandable information.

Component outcomes: GIF support covered topics and themes for which information is
important to empower poor people, and did so with several positive outcomes. It trained 215
Intermediaries and 193 Facilitators (Table 4.3). It provided 36 skills development training
courses and trained 322 experts, who in turn provided training on various business development
and IEC courses on six themes. There are no data to disaggregate the 623 IEC campaigns by
theme. However, the campaigns were delivered to over 20,000 male and female beneficiaries. As
a result of these trainings and exposure, 5,653 women improved their pre-existing skills, and over
95 percent of them actively engaged in businesses after such training. Because this component
focused mainly on the IEC subcomponent, the review of the project's impact will focus on that
aspect.

Table 4.3. Output Indicators
 Number of GMT courses held                                                                627
 Women who received GMT                                                                11,675
 Type of Skills Development Training (SDT) courses held                                     36
 Women who received SDT (to be updated with completed exit studies data)                 6,305
 Women who acquired new skills through SDT                                               3,468
 Number. of women who have improved existing skills                                      5,653
 Women groups that were provided refresher courses                                         324



                                                  28

 People (direct) reached through IEC courses                                           20,000+
 Facilitators trained                                                                      215
 Intermediaries trained                                                                    193
 Experts trained                                                                           332
Source: MIS Data


Given the importance of information, the WDIP financed some new and innovative IEC
programs through six modules aimed at increasing awareness of health and education issues.
Each woman, her partner and local village leaders were provided information on one or more
modules. By providing women with information on health and education issues, the project
aimed not only to empower women to protect their families from harmful traditional practices
and to use family planning methods, but also to enhance women's own awareness of, and
understanding of, their rights and obligations. The project also empowered the women by
improving their participation in community development, social, and political activities.

Component impacts:Did the WDIP's IEC program have an impact on the lives of the women?
Did it empower the poor women? Three studies have been carried out to assess the WDIP's
impact on women's empowerment. The conclusions in each are based on the analysis of data
collected through structured household questionnaires. Two studies (Legovini, 2004 and Ali,
2006) are based on only two regions. The third (B&M Development Study, 2006) covered 7
regions and has the most representative sample, but lacks a counterfactual, i.e., the questionnaire
was fielded only to the women supported by the project and not to potential beneficiaries. So
even though a high percentage of women report improved participation in and outside the house,
increased awareness, improved self perception, etc., direct attribution to WDIP is difficult.

To assess the impact of the IEC program, a counterfactual was created from within the 1,220
beneficiary women surveyed by B&M Development Consultants. Six IEC modules were held,
but only 41 percent of the women attended all of them. Sixty-eight percent attended four or more,
and 35 women attended none. Table 4.4 provides a breakdown of attendance.

Table 4.4: Percent Women attending IEC Modules

                   More     Legal   Heath and  Harmful     Family    Environment      Gender
                  than 3   Literacy  Nutrition Tradit.'l  Planning      (Env)      Development
                   IEC      (LL)      (HNP)    Practices    (FP)                       (GD)
                 Modules                        (HTP)
 Attendance         68       78        56         89          92          57            74
 (%)

Following the results chain, attendance should result in increased information, which, in turn,
should influence behavior. Three variables were used from the questionnaire to assess
beneficiaries' perception about enhanced knowledge and four variables to capture change in
practice (Table 4.5). Attendees of IEC module(s) were far more likely to perceive enhanced
knowledge as compared to non-attendees for all knowledge variables. This in no way should be
interpreted to mean that there was no demonstration effect. All that the analysis reveals is that the
direct impact from attending a module is higher than the indirect impact. Similar results were
found for practice of knowledge acquired at IEC.

   Table 4.5. Beneficiary perception on benefits of the IEC program
                                               Counterfactual used:   Attendees    Non-
                                               Attendance at                       attendees




                                                 29

   Enhancing own awareness                         3+ IEC Modules       98%         88%
   Enhancing own understanding of women's rights   LL IEC Module        81%         34%
   & obligations
   Changing own perception about gender            GD IEC Module        88%         42%
   Improved participation in community             3+ IEC Modules       76%         27%
   development activities
   Improved participation in social and political  3+ IEC Modules       66%         14%
   activities
   Protecting self & family members from HTP       HTP IEC Module       89%         46%
   Using FP methods                                FP IEC Module        74%         37%
  Source: MIS Data


Legovini (2004) however indicated that WDIP women were less aware of the fact that women
should have a certain right (although it may not be enforced or upheld within their society), and
that women have a right to choose their husband. However, they were more aware of women's
low representation in Kebeles.

Assessing the project's overall impact on the beneficiaries' socio-economic empowerment is a
more difficult task in the absence of a counterfactual. A large majority of women report
improvement in skills, levels of participation in and out of their households, and economic
welfare (Table 4.6). According to the three impact studies, participation in WDIP had a positive
impact on the psychological well-being of the women interviewed. Multivariate analysis carried
out confirms a statistically significant and positive association of attendance at IEC modules and
enhanced role in the household and participation in the local development committee and
community decision-making (Aide-Mémoire September 2006).

Table 4.6. Percent women reporting improvement in socio- economic empowerment
  building new skills (GMT)                                                             78%
  enhanced skills (GMT)                                                                 85%
  enhanced self awareness                                                               97%
  attitude change and self reliance and/or confidence                                   79%
  change in attitude of community & family members towards them                         98%
  improved participation in household decision-making                                   94%
  improved participation in local development committee                                 88%
  improved participation in community leadership/decision-making                        83%
  improved participation in political/democratization                                   71%
  improved food & nutrition due to increase in income                                   82%
  improved access to education due to increase in income                                73%
  improved access to health services due to increase in income                          78%
  increase in number of household furniture & utensils                                  57%
  increase in number of consumer durables                                               18%
 Source: MIS Data


Ali (2006) also indicates the increased role of beneficiary women in decision-making related to
crop cultivation, harvest selling (small increase), buying items in the market, and in children's
education. However, direct attribution to the WDIP is difficult to establish. Legovini (2004),
using a valid and robust counterfactual, shows that participation in WDIP had no significant
effect on women's independent decision-making on small and large food items, adult and
children's clothes and footwear, medicines and medical care, alcohol and tobacco, school
supplies, children schooling, household durables, kitchen utensils, farm tools, yard animals, farm
inputs, business tools and inputs. A significant and positive impact was found only in cattle and



                                                    30

sheep purchases. Finding no significant difference between beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries
on independent decision-making is not too surprising because even in many developed urban
communities, women do not make independent decisions about most household expenditures.
Significant differences in decisions about cattle and sheep purchases can be explained by the fact
that many WGs undertook cattle and sheep fattening activities and all related purchases were
made independently (of household members) by a woman.
Box4.1: Evidence from some unstructured interviews
· "I am the chairperson of Kerte Ox fattening Union. .This project has changed my life. My husband for
  the first time has become interested in what I do and we are now working together. The project has not
  only improved my economic status, but also my relation with my husband." South Ethiopia
· "I was in desperate situation and hopelessness when WDIP came to my area. Now I have my own
  house,     monthly income of 450 Birr to buy foodstuff. I am really the luckiest woman." Dire Dawa.
· "Because of this business my life has improved a lot. I have everything I need. Thank God my worst
  days are over!" Northeastern Ethiopia.
· "I saw a glimmer of hope once I came to know WDIP. The lessons I have got concerning HTP has
  opened my eyes to understand the good and bad aspects in my society." Oromia.

Source: Success Stories compiled by WDIP CCU for the National Fair, 2006.
The findings from the individual-level structured surveys resonated with the numerous individual
and focus group interviews with WDIP beneficiaries. The rapid assessments and exit studies
document potential impacts of the WDIP. These reports point towards a radical reduction in the
practice of harmful traditions, dramatic change in the attitude towards family planning and
HIV/AIDS prevention, increased awareness of legal rights, attitudinal change towards business,
and mental readiness to improve their lives, both socially and economically (Box 4.1). The
improved knowledge through business management training helped many women in improving
house management and creating job opportunities. The studies note that participating women sent
their children to school and improved their housing structure (e.g., shifted from grass cover roof
to iron sheet roof). Group discussions and free opinion flows during group meetings have given
"voice" to many women.

The combination of economic and social empowerment has important spillover effects into
households and communities, with the beneficiary women becoming role models for others. IEC
programs play an important role in the socio-political empowerment of the poor and the
uninformed. The messages from these programs, however, need to be reinforced for them to
become an accepted norm for the woman, her family, and ultimately for her community.

The M&E subcomponent functioned well as a monitoring system, setting up a robust MIS and
GIS system and a resource and documentation center with a comprehensive list of reports. The
resource center is fully staffed, resourced, and run by the EWDF, and is a repository of studies,
documents, South-South Learning Partnership reports, etc. Thus, this subcomponent created
valuable information that could be mined to document lessons of the LIL.

Component 3: Administrative and Management ($1.73 million), including vehicles,
equipment, and recurrent costs (salaries of project non-civil service staff and operating costs).

The project had a Central Coordinating Unit for overall implementation, and 11 Regional
Coordination Units to handle administrative and financial management and to maintain proper
books of accounts. All the RCUs prepared and submitted regular and annual financial statements
to the Central Offices for consolidation. While the motivation for equitable distribution of




                                                     31

administrative resources among all regions is laudable, some adjustments based on needs and size
would have been more efficient. This motivation let to inclusion of Benshangul and Gambella in
the last year of the project and threatened to dilute the project's benefits.

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Cost Analysis of WDIP Grassroots Initiatives Fund Component

The Grassroots Initiatives Fund (GIF) Component's share of total project funds was about 43
percent (US$3.26 million out of US$7.5 million). The project financed 623 WGs over the period
2002-2005, providing credit to about 11,675 women, implying an average direct cost per
beneficiary of about US$279.Of the 623 WGs financed, 621 are currently operational with
about 9,612 women active in their business ventures. Eighteen business groups have
temporarily closed and are up for sale. When other support costs such as administration,
MIS/monitoring and evaluation, and IEC are included then cost per beneficiary increases to
US$642. While the total cost per beneficiary is high, it covers equipment purchases, light
infrastructure, small funds for raw materials for each WG, technology, skills training, capacity
building and other needed support (for example, technical assistance, supervision, and
monitoring) activities. All these support activities were necessary to effectively reach a mix of
poor, mainly illiterate, and unskilled women who therefore needed additional training, follow-up,
and supervision.

A range of activities were undertaken by poor WGs depending upon the resource base in the
project area. The groups themselves selected the activities appropriate to their need and
circumstances. Women's groups were largely interested in animal husbandry (37 percent),
followed by petty trading (30 percent). About 5 percent of women were involved in the following
three activities; dairy, restaurant; and sale of home-made food, as was indicated in the review of
studies on small-scale income-generating activities by the WDIP team. The available studies at
appraisal estimated an average internal rate of return (IRR) for these activities of about 20 to 25
percent in urban areas and a little lower in rural areas.

The IRR was estimated for the funds that were disbursed to the WGs through the GIF
component, capturing the economic viability of the businesses initiated under the project.Costs
include only the money disbursed to the WGs and not the cost of training, and or the cost
of Facilitators/Intermediaries. If the cost of Facilitators/ Intermediaries (additional 800
Birr per annum per WG) is added, then the IRR drops to 14 percent. However, if benefits
continue to flow for another year at the same rate the IRR, inclusive of training costs,
will exceed 20 percent. Based on the information available for 574 WGs (92 percent of the 623
groups financed), the IRR for this component was estimated to be 25 percent, implying that the
WDIP has shown a good potential of empowering the target women economically. The major
economic gains that most participating women obtained include increased cash income, better
availability of food for households, improved food security, and increased asset accumulation (in
the form of household furniture, homes, and land purchases, etc.).

Of the three business modalities adopted by the project (individually-operated, group-based, and
hybrid), the individually-operated businesses performed better than both the hybrid and the
group-based modality. The IRR for the individual modality is an underestimate since many
businesses that started as groups changed to individual-based due to losses and/or low profits.
This shift helped to reduce the complexity of financial management, need for extensive
coordination, and dependence on the Facilitators and Intermediaries. The exit studies also
indicate high ability and willingness among members to pay their individual loans on a timely
basis. Marked increase in profit was recorded after the WGs individualized their business. By the



                                                   33

end of the project, the individually-operated businesses show the highest profits, reflected in
higher IRR (Table 5.1).

Unlike initial expectation, the rural WGs performed better than urban ones, although there is high
variability among the groups within rural areas (Table 5.1). Labor-intensive businesses
performed better than capital- and technically-intensive ones. The most profitable and feasible
business types include animal fattening/rearing, grain trade and services like tea, coffee and bread
(Table 5.1). This is an expected finding. Operating businesses that require knowledge of
machines (grain mills) and/or technical know-how (e.g., type of soil, amount of water for
horticulture) are difficult for illiterate women to maintain (see Oromia exit study).

Table 5.1. Internal Rate of Return for the Grassroots Initiative Fund
                       (Based on information available for 574 women's groups)
   Group                                        No. of Women                      IRR
   Overall                                            574                         25%
   Location
                               Rural                  287                         28%
                              Urban                   287                         21%
   Modalities
                        Group-based                   302                         18%
               Individually-operated                  235                         33%
                              Hybrid                   37                         17%
   Business-type
                  Animal husbandry                    215                         29%
                   Commodity trade                    109                         14%
               Homemade food item                      43                         18%
                          Restaurant                   30                         22%
                    Saving & Credit                    25                         73%
   Group-size
                        Less than 13                  186                         20%
                               13-17                  200                         28%
                               18-22                  110                         36%
                       More than 22                    78                         11%
 Source: MIS Data


Women's groups with 18-22 members performed better than other groups with larger
memberships, followed by groups with 13-17 members. The appraisal target was to create WGs
with about 30 members. While large groups have some benefit, too large a group requires larger
coordination and management effort. Furthermore, large groups can potentially create an
imbalance between the scale of the operation and the number of women in the group. Thus, this
target of 30 was replaced with a minimum of 10 members per group, with the maximum left
undefined. While there is no optimum group size, the size of the group has several implications,
especially for individual businesses where the initial lump sum grant is divided among members.
A 30-member group is left with about 1,000 Birr per woman, which is not only small to start an
individual business but also less than the absorptive capacity of women in Ethiopia, estimated at
1,500-1,800 Birr.




                                                  34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title              Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Elizabeth Otubea Adu   Deputy Gen. Counsel,
                       Operation            LEGVP              Lawyer

J. Michael Bamberger Consultant             IEGKE              Sociologist

Gita Gopal             Lead Evaluation
                       Officer              IEGCR              Task Team Leader

Christine Lao Pena     Senior Human
                       Development Econo    LCSHH              Task Team Leader

Supervision/ICR

Abebaw Alemayehu       Senior Urban
                       Development Speci    AFTU1              Operations Analyst

Vinayak Narayan                                                Micro-Entreprises &
Ghatate                E T Consultant       SASAR              Incom
Endashaw Tadesse       Senior Operations
Gossa                  Officer              AFTH3              Task Team Leader

Samuel Haile Selassie  Senior Procurement
                       Specialist           AFTPC              Procurement Specialist

Gertrude Marie
Halkjaer               Consultant           AFTS2              M&E

Prasad C. Mohan        Lead IEC Specialist  AFTRL              IEC
Adyline Waafas         Senior Gender
Ofosu-Amaah            Specialist           PRMGE              Gender & Development

Krishna Pidatala       Senior Information
                       Officer              AFTRL              M&E, Informatics

Anju Vajja             E T Consultant       IEGSG              Socio-Econ., Financ.
                                                               Analyst

Eshetu Yimer           Sr Financial
                       Management Specia    AFTFM              Financial Management


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                           Actual Disbursements (USD
        Archived                 DO              IP                   M)
1   01/31/2001          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        0.00
2   07/31/2001          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        0.18
3   01/10/2002          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        0.53
4   05/24/2002          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        0.56
5   12/02/2002          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        0.69
6   05/06/2003          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                        1.77
7   11/26/2003          Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      1.73



                                           35

8   06/02/2004          Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                       2.55

9   09/13/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                        3.39

10 04/05/2005           Moderately
                      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        4.77

11 12/13/2005           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                        6.37
12 06/23/2006           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                        7.07

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY97                                                        0.79
                    FY98                                                       13.46
                    FY99                                                      119.05
                    FY00                                     23                55.43
                    FY01                                      5                15.29
                    FY02                                                        0.00
                    FY03                                                        0.00
                    FY04                                                        0.00
                    FY05                                                        0.00
                    FY06                                                        0.00
                    FY07                                                        0.00
                                     Total:                  28               204.02
Supervision/ICR
                    FY97                                                        0.00
                    FY98                                                        4.47
                    FY99                                                        7.14
                    FY00                                                        5.25
                    FY01                                     11                63.77
                    FY02                                     25                89.11
                    FY03                                     23                75.09
                    FY04                                     25                92.34
                    FY05                                     22                71.27
                    FY06                                     25                71.49
                    FY07                                      8                39.53
                                     Total:                 139               519.46




                                         36

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                         37

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       38

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  39

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower prepared a 24-page ICR in August 2006, which is summarized below:

Background and achievements: The WDIP was a coherent part of the overall program of
Government and the World Bank and operated on a national scale. The project supported 621
WGs consisting of 11,292 poor women. Including their family members, about 60,000 people
directly benefited.

Outcomes: The WDIP was successful in mobilizing women at the grassroots level. It was able to
enhance women's participation in development through effective strategies that primarily focused
on tackling poverty and improving women's incomes and livelihoods. The project resulted in:

    1. With few exceptions, most women's groups achieved remarkable improvement in their
        income. Other economic gains include:

    · Improvement in food security, shelter, and clothing;
    · Increased expenditure on schooling; and
    · Increase in assets (houses, livestock, and equipment).

    1. The resulting social gains from increased incomes include improved self-esteem and
        recognition of women's roles and rights, as well as:

    · Improvements in household management skills, resulting in economic use of available
        resources for consumption and production;
    · Improvements in shelter, housing, and access to land;
    · Adoption of improved animal husbandry systems;
    · Reduced gender gaps at the beneficiaries' household levels;
    · Enhanced positive attitudes towards women and their meaningful contribution at the
        household and community levels;
    · Better knowledge about harmful traditional practices and HIV/AIDS; and
    · Improved legal awareness and decision making ability.

Problems and constraints: The main challenges include society's misconceptions about
women's ability, women's illiteracy and lack of skills, the project's short duration, and weak
design with regard to the project's sustainability. Regardless of these internal and external
challenges, the project registered remarkable results, especially in the final year.

Lessons learnt and sustainability issues:
    1. Investing in women's development is a worthwhile goal.
    2. Success or failure depends on the identification, design, and relevance of a project.
    3. Collaboration of the local administrative officials plays an important role for the success
        of women's economic, social, and political empowerment.
    4. Success depends on mutual understanding between the RCUs, Facilitators, and
        Intermediaries.
    5. Maximum group size of 15 and individual-based business activities are the most
        profitable.
    6. Training and IEC on legal awareness and harmful practices are important and effective.
    7. Integrated efforts between Government, NGOs, CBOs, and the private sector can bring


                                                 40

        about remarkable change.
    8. Development projects should include adult literacy components.

Recommendations: Despite the project's achievements, there is a large gender gap that has been
identified in the PASDEP and that requires a response. Recommendations for a scaled-up
operation include the need to:
    · Incorporate a functional adult literacy component.
    · Transform WGs into cooperatives.
    · Incorporate new grassroots beneficiaries.
    · Scale up the operation by incorporating the experiences, skills, and lessons.
    · Capitalize on the strong institutional structure as a springboard for future activities.

10B ­ Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
The Borrower also submitted the following comments on the World Bank's draft ICR on January
8, 2007. These comments have been reflected in the final ICR.
1.    On page 8 section 7.2 last sentence it says, " WGs consisting of more than 30 members
were approved" in the implementation of the project in phase one regions(Addis Ababa, Afar,
Amhara and Dire Dawa) the approved members size for all WGs were from 10 to 30, there were
no WGs approved consisting more than 30 members. It is during the MTR the group size is
revised to be from 10 to 20.

2.    On page 9 first line of the sentence, "challenges faced during this phase included: "
intermittent and often weak support from the Women's Affairs Offices", on this issue the Women
Affairs Offices were very supportive to the project during the implementation both as the
executing agency and steering committee chairperson. The challenges faced in this aspect were
structural ones.

3.    On page 9 there are few editorial comments on names of phase two regions that is "Harare"
should be edited as "Harari" and "SSNPR" should be edited as "SNNPR" which stands for
"South Nations and Nationalities Peoples Region."

4.    On page 9 section 7.4 last sentence says, "There were some delays in the GOEs provision
of counterpart funds" There were also delays in fund transfer and replenishment processes. Thus,
this needs to be noted in the report.

5.    On page 12 on section (b) line number 3 it says "twelve RCUs " since the no of RCUs are
11 it should be corrected accordingly.

6.    On Page 14 on "Government performance Section "bullet no 4 moderately unsatisfactory
performance on contribution of counterpart fund". The delays of fund from the Bank side should
be mentioned as well.

7.    Page 15 bullet no 5 says, "lack of proactively and effectiveness with transition
arrangements" for this issue there was an effort made by the EWDF and MoWA by discussing
with MoFED to scale up the project during implementation. However, MoFED requested the
impact study of the project in its pilot phase. Therefore, the impact study was conducted, the final
report was submitted in April 2006 and forwarded to MoFED. Thus MoFED sent project
proposal to different potential bilateral and multilateral donors requesting fund for the scale up
the project.




                                                 41

8.    On page 17 on the table" Formally revised target Values of WGs is 530 " the "Formally
revised target Values of WGs is 446 "Which is revised during MTR.(refer Mid-Term Review
(MTR) Mission October 20-31, 2003 Aide-Memoire)

9.    On page 23 "under table 4.3 "the table Number of GMT courses held are 627 , but the no of
WGs that took GMT are 627.

10.       On page 31" EWDP" should be edited as "EWDF".

11.       On the same page on "Transition arrangements", it says "the lack of budget to support
the staff beyond three months..." during the ICR it was on process to secure budget for three
months bridging of the project. After that, the GOE delivered budget for 6 months for proper
closing of the project.




                                                42

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Cofinancier submitted the following comments on the draft ICR on January 10,
2007.
Italian Cooperation comments to the World Bank Implementation Completion and
Results (ICR) Report (IDA ­ 34070 IDA 3407° ITAL 24962) . General Comments
The ICR Report is the result of an ICR mission undertaken by the World Bank in August
2006 with the aim to carry out a review of the Woman's Development Initiatives Project
(WIDP). The ICR mission aimed at analyzing project's achievements and results and at
ensuring a proper project finalization and conclusion. During the mission the ICR team
met with relevant project stakeholders and reviewed relevant documentation produced
during the project's span.

We are very pleased to see that according to the ICR Report the project outcomes have
been rated as "satisfactory" and that both the Bank and the Borrower's performance has
been rated as "moderately satisfactory". We generally agree with the ICR report's results
and we are pleased to know that according to the Bank evaluation the project has
achieved its development objectives and that the project has achieved its aims of
empowering women in the social context. Here below follow general and specific
comments from this office:

General comments
It would have been useful for not-internal WB readers if the author/s could have added
an initial chapter to explain to whom the study has been commissioned, (WB internal or
external evaluators), the composition of team members, their background and specific
tasks, the methodology used by the team and the objectives of the ICR. Also a list of
stakeholders involved and/or met during the ICR mission, the number of Women's
Groups visited and the sampling criteria could be of help to have a better understanding
of the ICR results. We also believe that a copy of the ICR ToR could have been
attached to the document, to have a clearer idea on how the document fits in the group of
other documents generated by both the Bank and other actors during the project
implementation. Furthermore, could be interesting and also useful for the document
interpretation to have the rating criteria explained.

It must also be underlined that in the present report it has not been adequately
emphasized that many of the recommendations produced in previous evaluations (namely
the Aide-Memoire as of the supervision missions of August 2005 and May 2006) have
not been completely implemented during the remaining project's life.

Specific comments
Page 2, List of Acronyms: The list doesn't include all the acronyms used in the text (IA,
IIR, PDO plus others are missed)

Page 5: What does "Environmental category" mean? And what does it mean the "C"
rating of this category?




                                              43

Page 8, Chapter 7.2: As it is explained in the Report, the Bank used a financial
mechanism called Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) intended to develop and test new
approaches and methodologies. This approach resulted in changes in the on-going project
with the aim of increasing women's socio-economic empowerment and addressing
logistical and capacity challenges.
In chapter 7.2 it is mentioned, amongst the others, the change made to maximum WG
size allowed. Even if the PAD and the PIM specified maximum group size of 30, due to
Government's pressures, WGs of more than 30 members were also accepted. But in
annex 5 "Economic and Financial Analysis" it is stated that WGs with highest Internal
Rate of Return (IRR) were WGs with a maximum size of 22 participants while groups
with a higher number of participants didn't perform well for a number of reasons.
This seems to implicitly assume that introduction of changes in the project are not only
due to newly arisen needs and challenges but also to other kind of pressures. Furthermore
it seems that this mechanism doesn't always work well and that some changes could
bring to weaken women's position. In general the two assertions look to be contradictory.

Page 9, chapter 7.4: It would be better to clarify what "The project was rated as category
c" means.

Page 10, chapter 8.1 sub paragraph "Design": The project's design is stated to be highly
relevant. But in annex 4 some project challenges are mentioned: high illiteracy rate
amongst women, high number of unemployed women beneficiaries and high number of
women head of households in the project. These challenges are considered as the major
constraints in the attainment of project's objectives. But, according to our perception of
the WDIP, these "challenges" are more to be considered as basic needs that the project
should have addressed than constrains which limit the project implementation. To our
understanding it seems that the Project Appraisal Document didn't include an extensive
social analysis by which it would have been easier to foresee the impact of the basic
women condition (illiteracy, unemployment, position inside the household) over the
project.

Page 11, chapter 8.2: It would be interesting to mention the source of data listed in the
paragraph

Page 12, paragraph 8.6: To non- World Bank staff the difference between "core" and
"non-core" ICR could be unclear. Could you please explain?

Page 16, Chapter 11, point 2: It is questionable if such a project, although it is a nation-
wide initiative which has covered all the Regions in the Country, could really have an
impact over the women literacy level, by means of a basic literacy program.

Page 20, Point entitled "Facilitators": In the Aide-Memoire of the supervision mission
held in September 2005 (page 7) it is mentioned the presence in the project of a perverse
incentive for Facilitator and Intermediaries not to empower the WGs to manage their
business by themselves. It is also recommended to encourage WGs to hire book keeping
and other management services by their own resources (forming group clusters if it is



                                             44

needed). As in this report it is stated that only some of the WGs have hired the
Facilitators by their retained earnings, it seems that the recommendation of the Aide-
Memoire (like many others) has not been met, despite its relevancy in ensuring WGs'
sustainability.


Page 23: At the end of the page it is stated that the Component 2 of the project, for
Institutional Building, by means of the IEC sub-component not only could inform
women, their spouse and leaders of their villages about health and education issues, but
also could protect women and their families against Harmful Traditional Practices (HTP).
We wonder if it would be possible to substantiate the statement with affordable data.




                                              45

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

PAD - Report No: 20428, July 27, 2000
Development Credit Agreement (August 28, 2000)
Aide-Mémoires
Arianna Legovini, Measuring Women's Empowerment: The Conditions of Poor Women in
Ethiopia and the Impact of Ethiopia's WDI P (2004)
Ethiopian Women's Development Initiative Project (Credit 3407-ET) ­ List of Studies
Conducted (list provided by M&E Of ficer, CCU)
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Addis Ababa, by Shiferaw Tesfaye, July
2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Tigray Regional State, by Shiferaw
Tesfaye, July 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Dire Dawa Administrative Council by
Shiferaw Tesfaye, August 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Harari Regional State, by Shiferaw Tesfaye,
August 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Oromia, by Shiferaw Tesfaye, August 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Somali Regional State, by Shiferaw
Tesfaye, August 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Afar Regional State, by Shiferaw Tesfaye,
September 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Amhara Regional State, by Shiferaw
Tesfaye, September 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples
Region (SNNPR) , by NEK-Interna tional Consultancy, September 2005
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on WDIP of Benishangul Gumuz WDIP, by Shiferaw
Tesfaye, February 2006
Second Round Rapid Assessment Study on Gambella WDIP, by Shiferaw Tesfaye, February
2006
Impact of WDIP on Socio-Economic Development of Women, by Dr. Syed Ali (2006)
Exit Study Report on Oromia WDIP ­ August 2006
Exit Study Report on Addis Ababa WDIP ­ August 2006
Exit Study Report on Dire Dawa WDIP ­ August 2006
Exit Study Report on SNPPR WDIP ­ August 2006
Exit Study Report on Afar WDIP ­ August 2006




                                             46

