Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
Report Nù. P-4770-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELQPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 64.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAN
May 11, 1988
This document bas a restkcted dbuflon and may be used by clpieots onbly i the performance of
their officiai dutiets contents may not otherwse be disclosed wIthout World Banl auhorizatiou.



Currency Eauivalents and Units
Currency unit - Burundi Franc (PFu)
Exchange rate = US$ 1.00 - FBu 123.5 (Annual average 1987)
- SDR 1.00 = FBu 159.7 (Annual average 1987)
Standards     D Metric system
Fiscal Year  - January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADF      African Development Fund
AGRIBAL  Societé Agricole du Burundi
BCC      Burundi Coffee Company
BEI      Development 54dget
BNDE     National Bank for Economic Development
BO       Ordinary budget
BRB      Bank of the Republic of Burundi (ce,ntral bank)
CADEBU   Burundi Savings Bank
COOPEC   Rural Cooperative of Credit
COTEBU   Textile Company of-Bujumbura
WA       Fully Washed Arabica (coffee)
IDA     aInternational Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
OCIBU    Industrial Culture Office of Barundi
ONAPHA   National Pharmaceutical Offic.-
ONATEL   Ofice National de Telecomunications
ONL      Ofice National du Logement
OTB      Burundi Tea Office
OTRABU   Transport Company (Preight)
OTRACO   Transport Company (Passengers).
PE       Public Enterprise
PEPIPIP  Public Expenditures Programl Public Investment Program
PHN      Population, Health and Nutrition
PTA      Preferential Trade Agreement
RDC      Regional Development Companies
REGIDESO Public Utilities (Water and Electricity)
SAL      Structural Adjustment Lending
SAP      Structural Adjustment Program
SCEP     Service in Charge of Public Enterprises
SJF      Special Joint Financing
SNE      Small and Medium Enterprise
SNES     National Service of Statistics
SOBECOV  Societé de Commercialisation de Produits Vivriers
SOGESA   Societé de Gestion des Entrepots et Silos Alimentaires
SOPUBU   Societé de Peche du Burundi
SOSUMO   Sugar Production Enterprise in  8osso
TRC      Tanzania Railway Company
WHO      World Health Organization



FOR OmCI4 USE ONL
1BURUNDI
SECOID STRUCTUAL ADJUSN   OP TI
Credit and Program Summarv
Borrowert      Republic of Burundi
Amoimts        IDA Credits            SDR 64.9 million (US$90.0 million
equivalent)
Co-fmnanclnat  Japanese SJF Grants   Yen 700 million (US$5.3 million)
Japanese SJF Loan:   Yen 1.7 billion (US$12.8 million)
Germany SJF Grants    DM 10 million (US$6.0 million)
Saudi SJF Loians      Riyals 11 million (US$2.9 million)
TeQms          IDA Credits            Standard IDA Terms
WJF Grants:           Non-retimbursable contribution
Japanese SJF Loans    Maturitys       30 years
Grac. Periods  10 years
Interest Rates 1.25S.
Saudi SJ? Loans       Maturitys       50 years
Crace Periods  10 years
Interest Rates 1.00%.
Descrivtions   The proposed financing is intended to support the next phase
of the Governrment's structural adjustment program initiated
under the Trirt Structural Adjustment Operation. The main
objective of the program is to accolerate economic growth
and increase per capita income and consumption levels, by
reorienting the economy towards a path with more reliance on
market forces and a greater outward orientation.  It
consolidates the policies already adopted and reinforces the
adjustment process by additional measures. The economic
program supported by SAL I emphasised the rationalization of
the incentive structure -- to improve resource allocation
and remove the bias against exports -- and increasing the
efficiency of public resources utilization. Policy
performance has been positive and in line vith the program.
In addition to fiscal and monetary stabilization efforts,
most import restrictions have been eliminated, and a major
customs tariff reform vas initiated.  The Goverrment also
started an Important reform of the public enterprise sector
and launched a considerable effort in public expenditure
This document has a mstuicted distdibution and may be used by recipients only in the Perfonnance
of their officiai duties Its contents may not othewise be dilucsed without World Bank authorizution.



- ii -
rationalization. Slippages in policy implementation have
occurred in the arees of planning and budgetary
strengthening due to delays in getting the necessary
technical assistance and the recent change in the Government
(September 1987).
The new Government's coammitment to pursue and strengthen the
measures initiated under SAL I has been affirmed in the
second PFP which vas presented to the Committee of the Whole
on April 26, 1988.
The measures to be supported by the proposed credit will
strengthen the ongoing policy reforms, notably those aimed
ats (i) strengthening incentives for efficient resource
allocation, increased private investment.and exports, and
greater efficiency of the coffee sub-sector; (ii) increasing
public savings and lmproving public expenditure management;
(iii) reforming the public enterprise sector; (iv) improving
agricultural productivity and sector management. The
measures vill alseo address new policy areas to accelerate
the supply response to the new mark2t-oriented incentive
structure, notablys (v) liberalization of the labor market
and amelioration of incentives for employment generation;
(vi) deregulation of the financial sector; and (vii)
preparation and lmplementation of targeted actions to
address pressing poverty issues, notably related to child
nutrition and vomen' s role in development.
The credit, grants and loans would finance all categories of
importe vith the excep.ion of items financed by other
sources, military and para-military items, alcoholic
beverages, tobacco, precious metals or stones, and luxury
items.
'Çstimated
Disbursementss The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
in three tranches.  The first tranche of US$40 million
equivalent vould be available for disbursement upon credit
*ffectiveness. Disbursement cof the second and third
tranches (of US$30 million and US$20 million equivalent)
would be contingent upon the Government's taking the actions
enumerated in paragraph 103-of this report. Performance
reviews would be held around March 1989 before the release
of the second tranche and around October 1989, before the
release of the third tranche. Disbursements of the entire
credit are expected te be completed vithin 24 months after
credit effectiveness.
Aipraisal Reports Not applicable
Hblps          IBRD 20649



- iii -
BURUNDI
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTIEET OPERATION
Table of tontents
-       ~~PaRe No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAN SUNNAIT                                             i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOHY  1.............      ........
A. Background 1............................                          1
B. Recent Policy Reforme and Economic Developments ........          2
C. Development Constraints and Adjustment Issues    .............5
D. Prospects and Financing Requirements ......................       5
E. Rationale for Bank's Involvement ..........................       6
PART Il - PROGRESS IN TUE ADJUSTNENT PROGRANs TUE FIRST SAL  7... 
Management of the Balance of Payments .....     ................  7
Fiscal Policy and Public Finance 8..........................      8
Production and Investment Incentives ........      ..............  8
Public Enterprise Reform *...................* ...............    8
Agriculture                  . ......... *'                       9
PART III - CONTINUING TUE ADJUSiNENT PROCESS ...................       9
A. Strategy .4.44 44..                   44-                         9
B. TheêGovernment's Short-ternm Financial Program .......... ...    10
PART IV - PROPOSED PROGRAN UNDER SAL Il .4......  ................    il
A. Trade and Industrial Policy ...............................    11
B. Public Expenditures Programming and Policies        ..............    12
C. Public Enterprise Reform  ***..* *.J-.***** **** .......         14
D. Agriculture Pôlicies 444*4444***4.4*4.4444444*44......           16
E. Employment Policies                                       ...    19
F. Financial Markets ....... ..*.......***....*...* 44444444...    20
G. SocialPrograms and Poverty Alleviation  ...... ...............    21
H. Impact of the Adjustment Program .....      .....................  23
I. Riaks .*4.44...4........4444444444444444444444444444 .......     27
J. Credit Amount and Tranching   .44444.4.4 ...........  ......     28
K. Diabursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing ....   28
L. Monitoring ..............................................    28
PART V - BAKGROUP OPERATIONS  AND STRATEGY ............... ...        30
PART VI - RELATIONS WvTm  TR  IF 444444444 4 4*444444444*44444444,    32
PART VII - RECOMNENDATION 44*444444*444444444444444444444444444*    32



Page No.
TmCT SALR
Table ls Main Economic Indicators .....................        4
Table 2s Recent Performance and Growth Prospects ......    24
Table 3s Suumary of External Capital Requirements
and Sources: 1988-92 ......... ............     26
I       Social and Economie Indicators ......    ...................  33
II      Status of Bank Group Operations ........................      42
III     Supplementary Project Data Sheet .......................    43
IV      Structural Reform Program (Natrix of Actions) ..........    45
V       Letter of Development Policy ...........................    53
VI      Note on Procurement Procedures ...       ......................  78
MAPs    Burundi - IBRD Map 20649



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION 0F THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REEPULIC OF BURUNDI
1.       I submit the followLng report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) to the Republie of Burundi for
SDR 64.9 million (US$90 milliont equivalent) on standard IDA terme. In
addition, I recommend that IDA administer a proposed Special Joint
Financing non-reimbursable contribution of Yen 700 million (about US$5.3
million equivalent) from Japan.
2.       The first SAL for Burundi vas approved by the Exeoutive Directors
in May 1986 for a total of US$50 million vith financing from IDA, SPA, and
Special Joint Financing from Japan sad Switzerland. In parallel, Burundi
negotiated a Stand-by arrangement vith the IMF (covering the period August
1986 to March 1988) and a SAF loan based on the first Policy Framework
Paper (1987-1989) for a total of SDR 20 million, to be diabursed over a
three-year period. A Bank mission reviewed the implementation of SAL I -in
December 1986, and the second tranche vas released in April 1987.
3.       An economic memorandum on Burundi (Report No. 6754-BU) vas
distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1988.  The Report foeused
on the policy reform priorities for the next phase of the Goverrmentls .
adjustment program. The Government requested IDA assistance in support of
the second phase of the adjustment program in September 1987. Thns program
vas appraised during a mission in JanuarylFebruary 1988, the conclusions of
which are reflected in this report. Country data are attached as Annex I.
PART I - 111E ECONOe<Y
A. Back!roimd
4.       Burundi is a samall couatry (27,800 km2) vith a population of about
5 million and a per capita GNP of US$240 (1987 Atlas). The country is
landlocked, densely populated (the second highest population donsity in
Africa), and vith scarce natural resources other than its relatively
fertile agrieultural land. The society is primarily rural, vith only 5
percent of the population living in urban centers. Agriculture
(commercialized and subsistence) accounts for approximately 50 percent of
GDP and provides employment and ineome for about 85 percent of thé
population.  Coffee is the main export, gonerating four-fifths of total
export earnings. As a landlocked country, Burundi is quite vulnerable to
the transportation conditions in neighboring countries. Progress has been
made to improve transport infrastructure and to simplify transit
formalities, but transportation coste are very high and passage through
neighboring countries ls, on the wbole, unreliable.
5.       After a period of political turmoil whieh culminated in serious
civil disturbances in 1972-73, political stability vas restored in 1976.



-2-
In early September 1987, President Buyoya took pover in a bloodlese coup,
at the end of a period of political tension, difficult relations vith
neighboring countries and the Catholic Church, and adverse image in the
International pres. The change occurred vith minimal economic aud
administrative diaruption. The new Governnient's commitment to the
structural adjustment program has been clearly stated in the President's
Declaration of Policies pronounced in late September 1987, and demonstrated
by the reform measures implemented in the past six months.
B. Recent Polic-  Refor» and Economic Develolments
6.       After a period of relatively good performance during the late
1970a, Burundils economic and flnancial situation took a turn for the vorse
in the early 1980e, as a result of a substantial deterioration of the terms
of trade, expansionary fiscal and monetary policies and adverse climatic
conditions.  Real GDP growth, which had averaged 5.1 percent per year
during 1978-81, declined to lesa than one percent per year during 1982-84.
In 1984, the external current account deficit reached a record high of 16
percent of GDP and the overall fiscal deficit rose to 12 percent of GDP.
Inflation ran at 14 percent a year, leading to a rapid appreciation of the
Burundi franc. Moreover, the network of administrative controls aiming at
controlling the external deficit and protecting the domestie Industry led
to distortions in the incentive structure, high rents accruing to
monopolist importers, low incentive to invest in the productive sectors,
and a slowdown ln economic activity. These developments brought into light
Burundi's major structural constraints: the extreme dependence on coffee,
the veak role of the private sector, and the lack of incentives for a
sustained growth of agriculture and industry.
7.       Thrust of Adlustment Proaram. In late 1984, the Government
requested Bank and IMF assistance to prepare and finance the firet phase of
a structural adjustment program vith the double objective of re-
establishing the basic financial equilibri_ aad initiating medium-term
structural adjustment vith more reliance on market forces and a greater
outward orientation. Particular attention vas given to the rationalization
of the Incentive structure -- to improve resource allocation and remove the
bias against exports -- and increasing the efficiency of public resource
utilisation.  Preparation for the firet SAL began in mid-1985 and the first
measures vere implemented in 1986.
8.       Policy performance has been positive and in line vith the program,
as described in detail in Part II. In addition to fiscal snd monetary
stabilisation, most domestic prices have been decontrolled, the exchange
rate overvaluation vas largely corrected, and a flexible exchange rate
policy vas adopted. Most import restrictions vere eliminated, and a major
customs tariff reform vas initiated.  The Government also started an
important reform of the public enterprise sector, adopted a three-year
public investment program (PIP) compatible vith domestie and external
resource availabilities, and initiated the preparation of a comprehensive
public expenditure program (PEP) to provide a framevork for setting public
expenditures priorities. Slippages in policy implementation have occurred
in the areas of planning and budgetary strengthening, due to delays in
getting the necessary technical assistance and the recent change in the
Government and in the financial program, whose objectives could not be
attained due to the cascading effects of the coffee revenue shortfall (see



para. 10). The automatie exchange rate adjustment vas interrupted in March
1987 but has been resumed since February 1988. The new Government's
commitment to pursue and strengthen the measures initiated under SAL I has
been affirmed in the second PFP which vas presented to the Committee of the
Whole on April 26, 1988. The measures to be implemented in the second
phase of the adjustment program (to be supported by th.e proposed operation)
are described in Part III.
9.       Récent Developments: 1986-87.  Although it is too early to
perceive the full economic impact of the program --  the firat full year
under the program vas 1987, a year of political change and marked decline
in export prices -- the impact has been largely positive.  Despite a*
substantial decline in world coffee prices (much more than what had been
anticipated) starting in the second half of 1986 and intensifying through
1987, the program achieved positive results in redressing major financial
imbalances, improving domestic competition, and strengthening the
competitivenesa of Burundi's manufactured exports while containing import
demand. During 1986 and 1987, non-traditional exports grev (albeit from a
very low base) by about 30 percent a year in real terme. GDP growth
reached 4.4 percent in 1986, but fell to 1.7 percent in 1987 due to the
marked decl£t.' ln coffee revenues (GDP growth at factor cost vas 4.7
percent). Tot"l investment, which had contracted since 1984, rebounded in
1M87. Inflation hit a record low level in 1986 (1.8 percent per year) as a
result of increased agricultural output and reduced trader margins, but
rose to 7 percent in 1987.
10.      The financial situation also improved in 1986.  The overall budget
deficit vas reduced from 7.5 percent of GDP in 1985 to 6.5 percent, and the
external current account deficit (excluding transfers) also declined
relative to GDPs from 11.2 percent to 10.2 percent (Table 1). Net foreign
assets rose to 2.2 months of importe at the end of 1986 (compared vith 1.3
months at end-1985). The improvements registered vere, however, less than
had been anticipated. The impact of the shortfall in coffee exporta vas of
such a magnitude (equivalent to 30 percent of export earnings and budgetary
revenues) as to make the targets of the Stand-by program (approved on
August 1986) unattainable. Preparation for a nev financial program Vas
initiated in March 1987 but vas delayed by the change in Government (see
para. 109). A second year SAF program vas approved by the Executive
Directors of the IMF on May 4, 1988.
11.      Burundi's financial difficulties vere exacerbated in 1987 by the
continuing deterioration of coffee export prices. Over the year as a
whole, world coffee prices declined by 46 percent to their lowest level
during the last 10 years; and Burundi's coffee export earnings contracted
by US$40 million. Despite a substantial increase in non-traditional
exports (from US$4.8 million in 1985 to US$13.5 million in 1987), export
earnings fell to about the 1984 level. These developments, together vith a
veaker demand management policy and a substantial increase in debt service,
led to a deterioration in the external position. The current account
deficit (excluding transfers) rose to the equivalent of 13 percent of GDP
and, despite the increase in net medium and long-term capital inflowe, the
balance of payments registered en overall deficit of US$10 million. Net
official reserves fell to 1.8 months of imports equivalent. Despite the
highly concessional terma of Burundi's external debt, a substantial
increase in outstanding foreign debt, together vith a bunching of



-4-
maturities and the decline in export earnlngs, pushed the debt service
ratio (based on actual payments) above 40 percent in 1987.
Table la Un ECIIGUC IICAUYM
lus8   19*4    1986    190        17
(pro,.>
As X of CDP:
Exporte.                 9.8    10.1    10.7    10.4       8.0
Import                  27.7    24.2    19.6    10.2       20.8
Current Accouet Dot. a/  19.7    16.2    11.2    10.2      18..
External D.bt (DOD)     24.8    86.8    84.4    89.7       56.0
Oov't Rkvenues b/        12.6    14.1    18.9    16.8      12.2
Currnmt Expeltures      12.8    11.2    10.6    11.4       18.1
Capital Expn1teur and
Net Lending            17.8    14.8    11.0    10.9      11.9
Total .o'vt Deticlt c/   18.1    11.6     7.5     6.6      12.8
lnvetent (FOI)          17.8    18.4    14.2    12.7       19.9
External De" Servies
USa mllion              12.2    17.9    28.0    82.1     47.2
A S of Expore (Q,NFS)    12.8    16.7    28.2    20.1      48.8
Term ot Trae (I1081u1      l18.8   189.9   189.1   171.9    108.8
s change                          18.8    .4.6    28.6   -89.9
OP groth (S)
irket pricea               8.1    -0.1      7.4     4.4      1.7
Factor coet                4.0    4.8       7.6     8.8      4.7
ai Exclude. publlc tmneerc.
b/ Exclude capItal grante.
et On a colt1sot beele and excludinog offlcal grante.
12.      These developments had a significant impact on the fiscal
aituation. Coffee revenues fell from FBu 5 billion in 1986 to 0.6 billion
in 1987, leeding to a 20 percent los8 in overall fiscal receipta. Overall
expenditures, however, rose above the budgeted levels, as the previous
Goverrment relaxed its prudent budgetary policy and substant al increases
vere recorded in the debt service 1 and extra-budgetary expenditures. The
nev Government had limited scope to take corrective messures in 1987. As a
result, thé overall fiscal deficit (including foreign-financed investment)
rose to 12.8 percent of GDP In 1987, and the Government accumulated
domestic arrears.  The une.pected use of theee deficits n.cessitated
increased recourse to central bank fiuancing.
13.      The adjustment program has had a generally positive impact on low
and middle-income consumers. Prices of basic commodities -- food,
clothing, and basic home construction materials -- have declined or stayed
constant since 1985.  The dtvaluation (33 percent in SDR terms between July
1986 and February 1988) has raised prices of some imports, but these have a
negligible role in the low and middle-income market baskets. The Lncomes
of the poor (mostly farmers) have also Improved, following the increase in
producer prices for coffee and tea ln 1986 and the el4mination, in late
1987, of the sales tax on food¢rops.  Tie urban sector vas particularly
affected by the slowdown in the growth of public employment and
compensation and by the freese on salarie  since 1985. Some forced early
li Total debt service payments, including smortisation, Increased by 35
percent and accounted for nearly 30 percent of budgetary revenues ln 1987.



-5-
retirement of civil servants in 1987 contributed to social tensions before
the change in Government.
C. Develoment Constra.ats and Adiustment Issues
14.      Burundi%s structural problems vill require systematic and
sustained attention over several years. Tke recent deterioration in the
terms of trade hes highlighted the persistent problems associated vith
overdependence on coffee.  Historically, low savings and investment rates
and weak private sector participation have impeded the development of non-
coffee econoidc activities.  Reliance on foreign savinga has pushed
Burundi's external debt to US$650 million, or about 55 percent of GDP, at
end-1987.  Despite the rather favorable borrowing terms,2 debt service
payments are projected to remain above 30 percent of exports until 1991.
The combination of a serious debt burden, overdependence on coffee, and low
savings/investment makes it difficult to achlieve the necessary structural
adjustment quickly.  Long-term economic development is also hindered by
rapid population growth, limited availability of cultivable land, low
education and skill level of human resources, the limited size of the
domestic market, and the landlocked situation of the couantry.
15.      Laying the basts for sustained economic growth vill require,
therefore, a broad approach.  The financial program (supported by the IMF)
will help the couantry to reach more sustainable equilibria on both the
external and domestic fronts. To address the structural issues, the
Government's program -- to be supportad by the proposed SAL II --
Includes a comprehensive package of both onxoing measures tos
(i) strengthen macroeconomic management; (iI) create an incentive framework
to stimulate exporte and improve private sector confidence; (iii) reform
public enterprises; (iv) lmprove public expenditure management; and new
measures toi (v) increase the efficiency of the financial seotor;
(vi) liberalise the labor market; snd (vii) lmplement well-targeted
masoures aimed at alleviating poverty. Development programs that address
the long-term constraints and are supported by major donors includes an
active population policy3 ; efforts to strezgthen agricultural services;
promotion of amall and medium enterprises; effective management of natural
resources; end improvement of the couutry's human resources through
expanded education end health services.
D. Prospects and linancinx Regairements
16.      The Government's objective is to achieve real per capita GNP
growth during the 1988-91 period, while holding the current account deficit
at a manageable level. The attainment of this goal vill require not only
2/ 1.5 percent interest rate, 38 years matur'ty, 9 years of grace period,
which correspond to a 72 percent grant element.
3/ The Government's population policy is being supported by the IDA-financed
Population/iealth Project.  The program's objectives include, inter-alla,
raising the contraceptive prevalence target from 1.6S in 1987 to 142 in
1992, whlich would contribute to reducing the total fertility rate (from
6.1 in 1987 to a target of 4.1 by the year 2000) and would have a sizeable
impact on population aise (keeping the growth to 9 million against 12
million by 2015).



-6-
the timely implementation of the Government's adjustment program, but also
lncreased import capacity. This will depend on the success ln diversifying
exporte over the medium term and, more limediately, on larger inflows of
concessional assistance.  Despite the growth of non-traditional exporte
during the past few years, the bulk of Burundils export earnings still come
froui coffee, tea, and cotton (85 percent of total exporte). However, the
world market prospects for these commodities are not bdight. While
earnings from non-traditional exports (e.g., manufactures) are projected to
increase more rapidly than those from traditional exports -- benefitting
from good opportunities to export towards the neighboring countries 4 --
their impact on the balance of payments will remain modest through the end
of this decade.
17.      Burundi's external financing requirements for 1988-89 have
increased because of the decline in coffee prices, which is estimated to
lower potential revenues by about US$50 million during the period
(equivalent to about 25 percent of exporta). To finance the importe
associated with the above growth objectives, meet the scheduled
amortization payments, and allow for some accumulation of international
reserves, Burundi will require external financing totaling about US$480
million during ;988-89, as explained in greater detail in Part IV.
Expected diabursements of grants and M&LT concessional loans (including the
proposed financing) are estimated at about US$440 m11llion.5  A meeting of
the main donors is planned to be held in Geneva in Summer 1988 to mobilize
an additional US$40 million to close the financing gap during the program
period.
E. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
18.      Supporting the adjustment program is at the center of the Bank's
assistance strategy for Burundi. Since 1985, the Bank has been quite
active in helping the Government to prepare and implement the first phase
of its adjustment program. The Bankl's involvement has combined the
following three elementas (i) analytical vork, leading to the
identification of major structural issues and needed reforns; (ii) an
intense policy dialogue, to which the Government has been responsive, and
which has contributed to an internalisation of the Bank's recommendations
and to the Government's commitment to the reform program; and (iii) the
financinr of policy-based ot>-zrations (SAL I) and technical assistance
projecta, in direct support of the economic reform program, as well as of
investment projects to stimulate a supply response to the new incentives
structure. The succesaful implementation of the subsequent phases of the
progran will require austained Bank and IMF support.  The IMF is supporting
the implementation of a financial program under the second-year SAF to
cover the 1988 period. The Bank will be involved tbrough: (i) a series of
structural and sector adjustment operations; (ii) continuing technical
assistance support to strengthen general economic management; and (iii)
41 For example, construction materials, textiles, soap, and some metallic
products to Zaire, Kenya, Uganda, and Rwanda -- all of them, with the
exception of Zaire, members of the Preferential Trade Arrangement Zone.
51 US$163 million from already committed loans, US$100 from new official
transferse and US$177 million from new loan commitments currently planned
in donor programs (including IMF support, and the proposed credit).



-7-
complementary operations in productive and social sectors (see Part V).
Particular emphasis vill be placed on continuing the actions already
initiated under the first phase and the implementation of further reforme.
The latter would complement the liberalization reforma initiated in the
trade and industrial sectors, notably those concerning the liberalization
of the labor and financial markets, while addressing the social aspects of
adjustment.
PART II - PROGRESS IN THE ADJUSTME T PROGRAM: THE FIRST SAL
19.      The program supported by the firet SAL emphasized the
stabilization measures aimed at restoring financial equilibria in the short
term and initiating medium- and long-term structural change in the economy,
based on the rationalization of the incentive system and improving
efficiency in the utilization of public sector resources. The following
paragraphe summarize the progress made in these areas.
Manatement of the Balance of Payments
20.      The firet phase of the adjustment program placed heavy emphasis on
export promotion and efficient import-substitution. After an initial
exchange rate adjustment of 13 percent in terms of SDRs, the currency vas
depreciated progressively until March 1987, with a total cumulatbvu
depreciation of 24 percent. In February 1988, the FBu vas depreciated by
an additional 10 percent. Also, in order to stimulate foreign private
investment, the limite imposed in 1984 on transfers of foreigner's income
vere raised. Furthermore, external borroving vas limited to concessional
loans, and an interministerial committee vas set up to monitor the
country's external debt and provide advice on new borroving.
21.      A number of import liberalization reforme were also implemented.
Quantitative restrictions vere largely eliminsted and replaced by import
duties. Import licenses are nov granted automatically, except for a
limited number of luxury goods and three groups of locally-marufactured
goods (cotton textiles, glass bottles, and pharmaceuticals) which are
subject to lemporary quantitative restrictions.  The former requirement for
importera to specialize in specific products vas abolished, leading to
increased competition. In order to further reduce the anti-export bias of
the trade regime, taxes on manufacturing exporta vere eliminated.
22.      A major reform of the import tariff structure was initiated with a
view to reducing high rates of effective protection enjoyed by many import-
intensive activities and providing a basic rate of protection for
production of intermediate goods based on domestic resources. The number
of duty rates vas reduced from 57 to 5; and the tax range on non-luxury
goode vas narrowed from 0-280 percent to 15-50 percent in 1987 and to 15-45
percent in 1988. Luxury goods are taxed at 100 percent, the maximum rate.
Ir. a few cases in which higher rates might be necessary to protect
industries of national interest (notably infant industries), selected
enterprises may be granted temporary relief in the form of either an import
surcharge (vith a maximum rate of 30 percent, levied for a maximum period
of three years) or reduction in custom duties on intermediate gooda.



-8-
Fiscal  ollct -ud Public Ftuauc.
23.     Along vlth the tariff reform, the fiscal measures adopted by the
Government Lucluded reform of the sales (transaction) tex -- from a
*cascade tax" to a single-stage sales tax, at a higher rate, levied on
production snd hiporto. Tax collection vas Improved, and exemptions
granted under the Investment Code vere revised.  The firet steps to Laprove
public expenditure management vere launched. A three-year public
investment program (1987-89) vas prepared which va  consistent vith the
macroeconomlc framework. The sectoral allocation vas also consistent vith
the develôpment strategy, and priority vas given to completing ongoing
viable projects and starting high priority projects. The Government
lnitiated the preparation of a three-year public expenditure program.
However, lmplementation delays occurred due to difficulties in recruiting
consultants and in establishing an appropriate action program for the
concerned ministries. *To strengthen the capacity to propare snd appraise
projects, sn IDA-financed Economic Management sad Public Enterprise Project
vas approved by the Exoecutive Directors ln May 1987.
Production and Investmuet Incentives
24.      The previous regime of price controls (on both local and imported
goods) was elimlnated. For only a limited number of strategic products (or
products subject to temporary import monopolies) prices can be,-1ubject to a
ceilint bnt for no more than four monthe and only in case of acute
shortages. Thi nev price system applies to the public enterprises as vell,
except In the case where social services and natural monopolies are
Lnvolved. A set of incentives designed to stimulate investment and
production vas put La places (i) the Investmont Code vas revised to provide
automatic lacentives to all isvestors (Burundian and foreign) vio meet
specified criteria related to, inter alia, employment of Jabor and rate of
return; (ii) the previous guarantee of the local market (whereby local
enterprises vere protseted from foreign sud domestic competition) has been
eliminated; and (ili) a Guarantee Fund is being re-activated to facilitate
access of mall end medium enterprises to banking credit.  Furthermore, Ln
an effort to mobilise domestic saviiWgs and encourage efficient utilisation
of credit* interest rates vere raised to real positive levels.
25.     lu April 1986, the producer prices of key exports, which had
declined in real terme since 1984, vere Lnereaseds by 28 percent for coffee
and 20 percent for tea (8 percent and 2 percent La roal terme,
respectiv.ly). As a result, the ratio of coffee producer prices relative
to vorld prices vas malatained at 48 percent between 1984 and 1986. In thoi
case of tes, the share Lacreased from 24 percent to 39 percent, and ln the
case of cotton from 42 percent to 80 percent. The sharp dovuturn in 1987
in vorld prices of coffte limited Government's ability to grant further
price lanreasee to producers. However, by maintaining nominal producer
pricest tii produc%r price share of the vorld prices reached 70 percent for
coffee and 51 percent for tea.
Public .Ektetrase Retors
26.      In t.he context of a comprehensive parastatal sector reform, the
Govermnmot has defined the criteria for State participation ln the economy
and prepared an overall strategy for the sector vhieh includes



rehabilitation, liquidation, end privatisation of selected enterprises, snd
the reinforcemont of the central government's capacity to monitor
development in the sector. A Service in Charge of Public Enterprises
(8E>P) was created in July 1986 to coordinate and monitor the reform
program for the sector. The SCEP completed diagnostic studies of four
enterprisest CADEBU (savinga), OTRACO and OTRABU (transport), and OKAPRA
(pharmaceuticals); end a fifth diagnostic study, of Verrundi (glass
products), is underway. An intervention fund vas created and ls available
to support the rehabilitation of these or other enterprises which vill be
the subject of further diagnostic studies (see paras. 47-56).  Four
enterprises facing ser4ous financial problems vere closed doun in 1986, and
'liquidation commissions" vere established to sell thoir assets and pay
their debts. The Government has integrated in the public administration the
research department of LAPHAVET (production and research of veterinary
products) and decided to continue subsidising tvo public enterprises -- ONT
(tourism) and CPI (industrial promotion) -- ville developing efforts to
increase their efficiency.
Mricultur,
27.      la agriculture, Important developments have taken place in terme
cf definition of a development strategy for the sector, includings the role
of Regional Development Companies, vhose functions have been streamlined
and foeussed on directly productive activities; emphasis on agricultural
services; and improving the sector's financial management. Concerning the
coffeo sub-sector, the Government took measures to reduce the moisture
content of the "fully vashed' coffee, which had eroded its premium in
International markets, and complementary efforts are being pursued to
lmprove coffee quality.  To tmprove the marketing capacity of SCC (coffee
marketing company), the Government, vith Bank assistance, established an
action plan to strengthen marketing procedures and training of- BCC
personnel which vill be launehed during the proposed operation. 5oreover,
the study of the financial aspects of the coffoe pricing policy vas
complet.d, whieh provides the basis for the proposed reviev of the coffee
prieing mochanism (para. 62).
PART III - CONTIUINO TU AjDJUSTHNT PROCESS
A. StrateRY
28.      The reforma that have taken place under the firet phase of the
adjustment progrea represent a fundamental change in Burundi's basic
economic environment. They have helped to reduce distortions in the
incentive structure and should favor a more efficient allocation of
resources, ln line vith the country's resource endowment. They also
provide flexibility in the economy by alloving prices to respond to changes
in domestic and external supply and demand conditions, and have laid th.
basis for th. continued adjustment which vill help restore longer-term
viability and sustained grovth.
29.      The Government's objectives for the second phase of its adjustment
program includes a real GDP growth of 4.5-5 percent per year -- alloving
for an increase in real per capita incomes and consumption (population
growth Ls projected at 3S per year); maintaining a viable external payment



-10-
situation; and reducing the overall fiscal deficit to about 5 percent of
GDP by 1991. The thrust of the underlying strategy is the promotion of
private sector activities, through the provision of an increasing share of
domestic credit to the private sector and of adequate guarantees to
facilitate private capital flows.  The ongoing tariff reform has already
begun to eliminate the major disparities still existing in rates of
effective protection. Under the proposed credit, the trade and industrial
reforms vill be strengthened to improve the incentive structure and promote
efficient export-oriented activities. The Government vill continue its
policy of price liberalization and vill extend it to interest rates and
labor market. In order to maintain the competitiveness of Burundian
exports, the Government will continue to follow a flexible exchange rate
policy.
30.      With regard to the public sector, the Government's strategy is to
rehabilitate the country's basaic infrastructure and to improve public
sector management and social services in line vith the budgetary resources.
The Government vill continue the reform of the public enterprise sector
(paras. 47-56) and seek to increase domestic resource mobilization in both
the public and private sectors. Domestic savings are projected to increase
from 5.3 percent of GDP in 1983-87 to 8.5 percent in 1990, due primarily to
increased savinge of the public sector, as a result of additional fiscal
reform measures, increased efficiency in the public enterprise sector and
continued prudent expenditure policies. To this end, the Government has
agreed to a set of budgetary targets vithin the framework of the approved
second-year SAF program..
B. The Government'*s Short-Term Financial Proaram
31.      The Government's short-term financial program under the second-
year SAP program concluded with the IMF is designed to help reduce the
overall fiscal deficit, maintain the balance of payments in line with the
availability of concessional aid and avoid inflationary pressures. It vas
prepared in collaboration vith the Bank, and there are several areas where
the two programs (the IMF's SAF and the IDA's SAL II) overlap and/or are
mutually reinforcing.
32.      The Government's financial program aims at keeping inflation at
about 6 percent a year in 1988 and 5 percent in 1989, while stimulating
economic activity by providing the private sector vith a significantly
larger share of credit. The fiscal objectives are toa (a) reduce the
overall central government deficit from 12.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to 9.7
percent in 1988 and 8.1 percent in 1989, with the objective of reaching 5
percent by 1991; (b) eliminate domestic arrears by end-1989; and (c)
maintain the external debt service burden at 12 percent of expenditure
during 1988-90. The achievement of these objectives vill be constrained by
the projected heavy debt service burden (nearly 20 percent of average
expenditures during 1988-90), therefore making it mandatory for the
Government to refrain from external borroving at non-concessional terms.
33.      To achieve these objectives, the 1988 program includes:
(a) measures to increase the fiscal revenues with the objective to increase
their share in GDP from 12 percent in 1987 to 14.5 percent in 1988, namely:
broadening the transaction tax base to include activities in the service
sector, construction work and food processing activities and increasing its



-11-
tax rate from 12 to 15 percent; extending the statistical tax to all
importe (except those for diplomatie use); and strengthening custom duty
administration to improve collection and reduce fraud; <b)  restrictive
public expenditure (quarterly ceilings vill be imposed on ministerial
apending) aiming to limit nominal annual growth to about 9 percent in the
case of personnel outlays, 11.7 percent in the case of goode and services,
and 14.7 percent vith respect to transfers and recurrent subsidies; and
(c) prudent monetary policy aiming to reduce budgetary financing through
the banking system by 32 percent and to expand credit to the private sector
by about 9.5 percent. Consistent with the target for an increased level of
international reserves, broad money growth is projected to be held at 7
percent a year, significantly below the projected increase in nominal GDP.
PART IV - PROPOSED PROGRAM UNDER SAL Il
34.      The proposed second SAL vill continue Bank support of a sound
framework of economic policies during the next phase of the Government's
adjustmint program.  It vill consolidate the progress made in a number of
areas during the firet phase of adjustment but also address nev reform
areas, namely the operation of the financial and labor markets (both
oriented to improve efficiency of resource allocation) and on poverty
alleviation. The program is outlined in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (Annex V). The folloving paragraphs describe the
components of the SAL II program which is summarized in the Matrix of
Actions in Annex IV.
A. Trade and Industrial Policv
35.      The Government's program contains measures to improve the
competitivenesa of non-traditional exporta and import-substitution
activities, and to provide more neutral protection across economic sectors.
To maintain competitiveness, the currency vas adjusted in February 1988 by
10 percent (in local currency terms) to correct the amall appreciation
vhich occurred since March 1987. The Government is committed to
periodically review its exchange rate policy taking into account the
evolution of the real effective exchange rate and developments in ita
external position.
36.      In addition to the fiscal measures mentioned in para. 32-33, th-
Goverrment vills (a) complete the tariff reform, with the objective of
narrowing the tariff range, reducing the average effective protection rate
and ensuring consistency vith the PTA tariff (condition of second tranche
release); (b) pursue the import liberalization program -- the remaining
import restrictions on luxury goods have been replaced by custom duties in
March 1988, and these will be changed to excise taxes in 1989; (c) agree
with the Bank on the timetable for liberalization of importe competing vith
domestic manufactures by mid-1990 -- the timetable for imports competing
with VERRUNDI products (glass bottles), ONAPHA (pharmaceuticals) and COTEBU
(cotton textiles) vill be defined in the context of the contract programs
to be negotiated vith VERRUNDI and ONAPHA by December 1988 and the action
plan for COTEBU to be finalised by March 1989.  Agreement on the timetable
for importe competing vith VERRUNDI is a condition of second tranche
release; and (d) pay interest on the FBu 10 million deposit required from
foreign importera and eliminate such deposit when the importer inveats in
productive activities of at least FBu 20 million.



-12-
37.      Furthermore, to furtiier improve the export incentives and to
increase the neutrality of incentives between import substitution and
export activities, an Export Promotion Decree was promulgated in April 1988
to: (i) revise the existing duty drawback system, replacing it with a
simplified rebate system for exportera -- who, thereafter, vill be able to
receive 15 percent of the value of their sales in rebates -- while setting
the stage for a later drawback system which vill incorporate all indirect
taxes; (Ili) encourage exporte through a concessionary tax rate based on
export performance; (iiL) allow marketing expenses incurred abroad to be
fully tex deductible; and (iv) simplify administrative procedures to make
it easier for promoters to travel abroad. In addition, the Goverment villi
(a) provide support to existing or potential exporters in marketing and in
financing technical assistance, notably by setting up an Office of
Standards and Neasures to ensure the quality of Burundi's exporte; and
(b) complete a study to identify and evaluate Burundi9s long-term resource
and market potential, thus providing the foundation for identifying viable
export activities.
3. Public lxpenditures ProarImBIB  and Policies
38.      The Govermnent's public expenditure policy aima ats (a) containing
expenditures la lin. with the available resources; and (b) concentrating
public resources on vital activities for the country's economic
development. Th. public expenditure program vill foeus on strengthening
basic services (basic health, education, rural water supply systeus,
agricultural research and extension), supporting targeted programs of
poverty alleviation, and maintaining existing economic and social
infrastructure.  Public investment vill aim to strengthen the human and
physical resource base, catalyse a process of urban development, and
selectively expand social and economic infrastructure, while leaving to the
private sector the task of investing in directly productive activity.
The Public Expenditure Pror«am
39.      During the firat phase of the adjustment program, the Qovernment
foeused on the preparation of the PIP as a vay to lmprove the overall
allocation of resources.  In the context of SAL II, the Governmnt vill
adopt a rolling three-year PEP (covering recurrent and capital
expenditures as vell as technical assistance) as the basis for
rationalizing public expenditure management. Progresa has already been
made in preparing detailed PEPe for two sectors -- education and health --
in the context of IDA-supported projecta. Further vork vill be undertaken
in 1988 to prepare PEPe in agriculture and transport sectors in the context
of IDA-financed projects under preparation.
40.      The objective is to prepare comprehensive three-year PEPs,
starting vith the PEP for 1989-91, and a consolidated formal budget by
1991. In the interim, transitional unified budgets vill be prepared for
1989 and 1990. To this end, the Governieet has agreed *with the Bank on the
procedures to put in place in order to prepare the firat 1989-91 PEP and
the firet unified budget for 1988.  During this process, the Goverrment
vill identify non-priority programs, assess the resource needs mf the
priority programs (including project-related recurrent costs), and
establish the base for a consolidated budgeting, finzucial monitoring and
control system (see paras. 45-46). Agreement vith IDA on the 1989-91 PEP



- 13-
and the 1989 budget (the 1989 tranche of the PEP) vill be a condition of
second tranche release; similarly, agreement on the 1990-92 PEP and the
1990 unified budget vill be a condition of third tranche release.
41.      The Goverment vill also prepare an action plan to improve the
efficiency of the civil service in 1988, based on the census already
prepared in 1986, and further analysis to be carried out with the
assistance of the 'Ecole Nationale d'Administration du Québec". Agreement
on a medium-term human resource strategy to improve the efficiency of the
civil service vill be a condition of third tranche release. In addition, a
technical assistance survey, being undertaken vith the assistance of the
UNDP (NA&CAP II), vill be completed to improve the efficiency of technical
assistance and develop a medium-term program concerning such assistance.
The Public Investment Protram
42.      A review of the preliminary 1988-90 PIP vas carried out during
negotiations. An agreement vill be reached with IDA on the final PIP
before effectiveness of the credit. The PIP calls for investments
averaging FBu25 billion per year (13 percent of GDP) at current prices. It
includes 185 projecta. The average project aise is amall - US$ 5 million -
and only 7 projecta are larger than US$ 20 million. About 25 percent of
the program represents activities undertaken by public utilities.  The.PIP
reviewed vith the Bank is a core program composed of high priority
projects, either with assured financing or vith high probability of
securing financial support.  A reserve program has also been prepared,
consisting of lesser priority projects which may be undertaken, vithin the
overall financial program, if financing is mobilized and/or higher priority
projects are delayed.   The core PIP is financed at highly concessional
terms (20 percent grants), vith IDA being the largest expected donor (36
percent of total identified external financing). The reserve projecta vill
be selected according to the criteria adopted by the Government under SAL I
<i.e., comprise productive projecta vith an economic rate of return of at
least 10 percent and social projects which meet the least cost solution).
The Government intends to convene, vith UNDP assistance, a Round Table in
late 1988 to present the Pive-Year Plan (1988-92)6 and the 1988-90 PIP to
the donors and to secure the remaining financing. A preparatory meeting is
scheduled in Summer 1988.
43.      The structure of the PIP reflects the Government's evolving
investment priorities as vell as historical developments. The decline in
the share of directly productive activities (see Table 4 in Annex I) is the
result of a sharp reduction in direct Government investment in industry.
In the infrastructure sectors, investments vill be maintained at an average
of FBu 6.5 billion per year. While an expansion of the port of Bujumbura
ls being undertaken, the ambitious road building program of past years la
being scaled down, vith the emphasis placed on maintenance. This component
also integrates an innovative urban development program in an effort to
foster the growth of urban employment which the Government considers vital
to reduce pressure on scarce land resources and improve linkages betveen
rural and urban activities. The share of social infrastructure investments
6/The Pive-Year Plan describes the Goverrment's development strategy for the
1988-92 period. It vas prepared in 1987 and iL being revised by the new
Government to make it consistent vith its economic program.



-14-
Le expected to rise as the Government lmplements important operations in
bastc education and health.
44.      To correct some distortions in the initially proposed core
program, the Government has agreed tot (i) withdraw the construction of a
central muarket in Bujumbura from the public investment program -- the
project could raise the cost of marketed gooda in the capital;
(iL) redesign the sport stadium (20,000 seat capacity) by eliminating
ancillary facilities (olympie swimming pool and hotel) in order to reduce
operating costs; (iii) abide by the results of the study concerning the
extension of the oil palm processing plant; and (iv) abide by the study on
the opportunity to continue with SOSUMO -- the expensive sugar production
ocheme (SOSUMO) whose economic viability is uncertain (para. 64). The
study should be completed by end-December, as a basis for an action plan to
be agreed with the Bank as condition of second tranche release.
Satisfactory implementation of the action program is a condition of third
tranche release.
Institutional Strenftthernnit
45.      There is a need to institutionalize the process of preparing the
three-year rolling PEPs so that they become a permanent feature in the
expenditure programming, budgeting and monitoring cycle. To this end, a
program of institutional reform will be developed and put in place during
1988-90 a*med ats (a) establishing the three-year rolling PEP framework and
integrating Lt throughout the administration; (b) unifying the preparation
of the budget, taking esplicitly into account the resource needs of
development operations; and (c) preparing transitional unified budgets in
1989 and 1990, while a full-scale budgetary reform and a reform of the
public accounting system are being prepared for implementation in 1991.
46.      The process of strengthening the Ministries of Plan and Finance
and the programming and financial management units of sectoral ministries
vill be accelerated with the support of ongoing IDA-financed technical
assistance operations. The Government yill prepare an action plan for
strengthening the Ministry of Planning. The French Ministry of Finance
vîll provide advice to help develop the budgetary and public accounting
system reforma. An action plan to strengthen the finance and sectoral
ministries in programming, budgeting and monitoring vill be developed and
agreed upon with IDA by end 1988.
C. Public Enterprise Reform
47.      Burundi's 57 public enterprises (PEs), most of which date from the
seventies, assume a significant role in the economy, particularly in the
modern sector, where they absorb around 25 percent of employment. In the
early 19809, a number of these enterprises began to face financial problems
and to rely on Governmental subsidies. In 1983, budgetary support was
ended, precipitating some of these parastatals into near-bankruptcy.
48.      As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
undertaken to implement a comprehensive reform program of this sector while
clarifying the objectives and strategy for its intervention.   Government's
objectives in this area include: (a) limiting State involvement in the
parastatal sector to new activities with projected medium-term economic



-15-
viability and to public services which would not interest the private
sector; (b) In order to maximise the value added of the sector, all public
enterprises should cover their operating costs and at least part of their
lnvestment coste; and (c) there must be a net contribution to public
finances by the sector, and there should be no subsidies to enterprises of
a comnercial and industrial nature.
49.      The main elements of the operative strategy includes
(a) rehabilitation of PEs when juatified by diagnostic studies;
(b) signature of performance contracte -- defining clearly the mutual
responsibilities of PEs and the concerned ministry -- for those PEs which
vill remain under government control; (c) reduction in the aize of the
sector by means of rationalization and mergers, liquidations and
divestitures; (d) financing by the State budget of social objectives of
PEs; (e) establishment of a performance monitoring system for the entire PE
sector; (f) limiting all new Government investment to those enterprises
satisfying the above criteria; (g) changing the legal framework to increase
autonomy and accountability and to require external auditing of public
ianterprises; and (h) completion of sectoral studies leading to the
preparation of action plans concerning key issues, such as prices, tariff
policies, incentives for employees and investors, and privatisation.
50.      In the context of SAL II, the Government will continue the program
initiated under SAL I. The Government has already decided on the final
stepa concerning the liquidation of SUPOBU (fishing) and SQM4EBU (studies) -
- including transfer of their assets to the Government. The liquidation
procesas of AGRIBAL (which has ceased activities two years ago) has been
delayed due to the reluctance of its foreign partner (a foreign government
which detains 60 percent of the capital) to liquidate the enterprise. The
Government expects to complete the necessary diplomatic procedures by end-
1988. The final draft decree to liquidate SOGESA (the enterprise charged
-ith the management of the silos previously managed by the already
liquidated SOBECOV) has been agreed with the Bank and vill be signed by the
President as a condition of credit effectiveness. In addition, based on
the diagnostic studies completed for a firat group of PEs -- CADEBU
(savinga institution), OTRABU and OTRACO (transport), ONAPHA
(pharmaceuticals), and VERRUNDI (glass bottles) -- performance contractai
action plans vill be prepared according to achedule specified in the action
program in Annex IV. The problems of these PEs and their implications for
Government action are highlighted below.
51.      CADEBU. The Government has agreed to gradually eliminate special
advantages enjoyed by the institution, including its monopoly regarding
compulsory savings, deregulate the interest rates on its credits,
remunerate those savings at market rates, and submit CADEBU to the control
of the Central Bank according to a special legislation to be prepared in
1989. Agreement on a calendar spelling out the progressive elimination of
CADEBU's monopoly on compulsory savings is a condition of credit
effectiveness. Satisfactory progreas in the action plan for CADEBU is a
condition of third tranche release.
52.      OTRACO's problems stem from poor management and confusion between
its public service and commercial roles. Its tariff policies do not permit
the enterprise to cover costs, but the extent to which its social
responsibilities limit its ability to be profitable has not been clearly
defined or reflected in the budget. Government vill sign a performance



-16-
contract with the enterprise outlinipg mutual responsibilities.  The level
of subsidies required vill be determined and provision made to include them
Ln the national budget.  The rehabilitation program vill include tariff
reforme and strengthening cost accounting.
53.      OTRABU has the potential of becoming a profitable enterprise in
the short-term but this vill require internal management improvements,
changes in fleet composition, and a marketing policy almed at the most
profitable activities and customers. The rehabilitation program will be
based on partial privatization of the enterprise, which will include its
conversion to a joint venture (SEN, Societe d'Economie Mixte) and the
elimination of all Government subaidies.
54.      ONAPaA's cost structure precludes it from competing auccessfully
vith imported producte. In view of the need to supply the Burundian
population with low cost pharmaceuticals, the Government has decided to
abolelh administrative restrictions and to seek private-sector
participation to rehabilitate ONAPHA. Government vill provide no further
subsidies, investment or loan guarantees to the enterprise. Liquidation
vill be envisaged by December 1988, if the envisaged investments to
modernize the plant are not financial and economically justified, or if
private participation is not materialized.
55.      VERRUNDI.  Upon completion of the second diagnostic study, the
Government vill be in a position to negotiate a performance contract vith
the enterprise.  On the basis of the first diagnostic study, it ia clear
that the enterprise requires a consolidation of its external debt which, at
present, constitutes a severe obstacle to its competitiveness in the
neighboring countries. The second study vill provide the basis for
preparing action programa concerning marketing, production lines, and
required new investment. Signature of a performance contract vith the
enterprise is a condition of second tranche release.
56.      Additional measures to be implemented under the program include:
(i) completion, by end-1988, of rehabilitation plans for a second group of
enterprisess REGIDESO (vater and electricity), COTEBU (textiles), Minoterie
(flour mill) and three import PEs --EPIMABU, ONC, and ONIMAC.  The
signature of a performance contract vith REGIDESO vill be condition of
second tranche release; (ii) completion of reform plans for a third group
of PEs -- ONLISIP (housing), ONATEL (telecomunnications) and hotels - by
March 1989; (iii) adoption of a revised legal framevork concerning the
relation between parastatals and concerned ministries. The draft
legislation has been prepared and discussed vith the Bank; it is expected
to be approved by the Couueil of Ministers by September 1988;
(iv) implementation of the management information system by end-1988; and
(v) completion, by December 1988, of several studies concerning tariffs,
incentives, and privatization. Agreement on an action plan for
privatization vill be a condition of third tranche release.
D. Atriculture Policies
57.      As a complement to the important investment effort made in the
agricultural sector (40 percent of the 1988-90 PIP), the Government intends
to take measures to: (i) improve productivity levels (notably of fooderops)
tbrough increased utilisation of fertilizers; (ii) prepare pricing policies



-17-
in line with the production and export objectives; (iii) strengthen the
efficiency of the coffee sector; and (iv) address the economic and
financial difficulties of some agro-industrial projects.
58.      Fertilizer utilization, limited to one percent of producers, is
hindered by insufficient knowledge of fertilizer performance ln on-farm
conditions, uncertainty about fertilizer demand, and insufficient
institutional arrangements for distribution and marketing. The Government
intends to: (a) update and extend fertilizer trial programs to crop
associations in actual farm conditions; (b) conduct trials on combinations
of chemical and organic fertilizer; (c) clarify import and supply policies;
and (d) increase the participation of the private sector snd producer
cooperatives in this activity.
59.      Pricing Policies.  Although there is little government
intervention in fooderop pricing sad marketing, price controls are in place
for major export crops (coffee, tea, and cotton) and some imported
fooderops competing with local production (wheat, rice, and palm oil). As
mentioned earlier (para. 25) adjustments have been made in producer prices
Ln the past but on an ad hoc basis, leading in certain cases (e.g., tea) to
financial difficulties in producing parastatals, to excess production
(rice), to reduced Goverament revenues (coffee), or to large oscillations
Lu production (cotton). As a basis for establishing a rational policy on
producer prices, thea Averament vill undertake an agricultural comparative
advantage study including an assessment of producer incentives in light of
production costs. The study will be completed by June 1989.
60.      Coffee Sub-Sector.  Programe have been launched to improve quality
of production, prices have been increased to improve farmers' incentives,
snd washing stations have been built to process fully-washed (FW) coffee,
which can receive about 15 percent premium in international markets.
Important issues to be addressed by the Government during the second phase
of its adjustment program concerns (a) rationale for production expansion;
(b) improvement in production quality; (c) reform of the pricing
structure; and (d) strengthening marketing strategy and capacity. On the
basis of past projects and existing plantings, there is a potential for
coffee production to double by the end of the century. The exploitation of
this potential needs, however, to be analyzed taking into account the poor
prospects of the international market, Burundi's vulnerability to transport
conditions in the neighboring countries, and the crop's opportunity costs
(taking into account the limited availability of cultivable land). In this
context, the Goverament vill develop a long-term production strategy (to be
discussed with the Bank by September 1989) based on the results of the
above-mentioned study, which vould also examine Burundi's relative position
in the world market for coffee and assess the possibilities for penetrating
the markets for best quality arabica coffoc.
61.      To improve the quality of the Burundian coffee, the Government
intends to continue the investments in coffee washing stations to produce
FW coffee. Sustained quality improvement requiresS, however, strengthening
the management of these washing stations. To this end, the Govrament will
analyze the advantages of transferring their ownership from the RDCs to the
private sector, including producer cooperatives. The management of these



-18-
stations vill be handled by professional firms paid on the basis of a fee.
Ir this context, the role of OCIBU (in charge of processing large part of
the coffee) vill be reviewed. To improve coffee exPort marketina, the
Governmeat vill also reinforce BCC's marketing and logistic capacity with a
view to establishing a policy of aggressive marketing and attenuating the       -
transportation problems arising from the landlocked situation of the
country and the unreliable service provided by the Tanzania Railway Company
in the past. Support vill be provided through a proposed Coffee and Export
Crop Policy Operation under preparation for possible IDA financing.
62.      Under the present Dricina system, all intermediaries in the coffee
productionlprocessinglmark.ting chain are paid according to a fixed price.
This creates distortions in the sector (OCIBU has accumulated substantial
surplus in the past few years, at the cost to producers and the Treasury),
limits the incentives for increased efficiency at processing and marketing
level, and hinders the potential for increases in producer prices. The
Government has initiated a review of the present pricing system ("echelle
mobile", or sliding scale), on the basis of a recently completed study.
The objective is to simplify the pricing structure, to adopt a second
aliding scale for the FW coffee, and introduce quality incentives for
producers of this type of coffee. As a first step, the sliding scule for
the 1988189 coffee season has been adjusted and revised in consultation
vith the Bank. The sliding scale for the 1989190 campaign vill be reviewed
vith the Bank as a condition of second tranche release. The Government
vill also assess the possibility of remunerating OCIBU and BCC for their
processing and marketing services on a fee or consignment basis rather than
on a cost-plus basis (to be discussed before the 1989 pricing schedule is
announced).
63.      The Goverrment has developed agro-industrial complexes to produce
some i»ort-substitution foods, notably sugar (SOSUMO), rice (IMBO), palm
oil (Rumonge), and wheat (Minoterie de MURAMVYA). These enterprises are
facing economic and financial problema, and the Government intends to
Ifelement a series of actions to improve their situation, as explained
below.
64.      The most important enterprise in the above category is the SuPar
Complex (SOSUMO), representing an investment of about US$80 million to
produce irrigated sugar. The project was prepared at the time when vorld
saugar prices were particularly high; it nov faces serious difficulties, as
production costs are very elevated and, at border prices, the enterprise
vould not be able to cover operating costs. The Government vill carry out
a study of thé opportunity cost of pursuing this project, including the
option of selling the plant and producing other crops. It vill also assess
the scope to reduce SOSUMO's operating costs and agree vith the Bank on an
action plan for the enterprise.  Based on the study to be launched shortly,
an action program will be agreed with the Bank as a condition of second
tranche release.  Satisfactory implementation of such a plan is a condition
of third tranche release. The Government vill liquidate the enterprise if
it proves economically unjustified after the first two years in operation.
65.      Rice is produced and processed by the RDC of Imbo. Because of
inadequate pricing and marketing policies, rice stocks have accumulated to
the equivalent of twice the domestic consumption.  Ex-factory cost and
selling price for Imbo rice are much higher than the price of imported



-19-
rice, obviouely making it difficult to export Lt. The main problem stems
from an excessively high producer price (fixed by Government at FBu 401kg,
or twice the level of neighboring countries). Before the 1989190 rice
campaign starte (March 1989) the Government will liberalize the paddy rice
market and allow the RDC Imbo to set its own prices, as a condition of
second tranche reloase.
66.      011 Palm.  Present oil plantations and processing plant are
economically viable. Current difficulties stem from shortages of raw
materials, due to the young age of the trees, leading to low levelas of
capac-ty utilization (about 30%). Plantation production Ia expected to
increase rapidly and expansion of the current plant vill be needed in the
early 1990e. A planned second plant (six times larger than the present
one) has been vithdrawn from the 1988-90 PIP. The extension of t'ho present
plant vill be decided upon based on the results of the economic feasibility
study.
E. Emplosment Policies
67.      For 60,000 new entrants into the labor force every year, the
modern sector creates at mast 3,000 permanent jobs (less than 5 percent).
Currently, the public sector absorbe two-thirds of modern employment (39
percent in the civil service and 27 percent in parastatals). Past
policies, including exonerations of custom duties on imported equipment,
price controlas, and an overvalued exchange rate, have hindered groath in
modern sector employment.  Although the reforms initiated under SAL I have
eliminated some of the distortions, further measures are needed to iprove
incentives for more intensive labor utilization. The Government has
already taken some actions in this direction: the payroll tax ("tax
forfaitaire") vas abolished; the Investment Code has been revised; and some
previous administrative constraints to labor and population mobility have
beau remaved. In particular, the settlement permit required for non-
residents has been abolished, the restrictions on itinerant traders
("commercants ambulants") vere eliminated, and a nev urban policy to
stimulate development of amall/informal activities in urban centers has
been adopted in the context of the IDA-financed Second Urban Project.
68.      Under SAL II, the Goveramment objectives are to further liberalize
the labor market by revising the legislation on domestie and foreign labor,
strengthen the role of the Ministry of Labor (as promoter of employment),
put in place a sertes of measures almed at reducing unnecessary costa (to
employers) associated vith employment (notably medical costs), and
stimulate the devealopment of artisanal and informal activities.
69.      To achiove these objectives, the Goverzment villa (a) revise the
labor legislation in order to allow private sector employers to recruit
directly, vithout prior mandatory consultation/approval by the Labor
Department (DMO); (b) redefine the role of the Placement Commission (in
charge of reviewing all labor recruitment) so as to make it primarily one
of supervision of DMO technical staff and monitoring the impact of
employment policies; and (c) strengthen the capacity of DMO to perform its
functions of evaluating employers' specific skills needs, maintaining
rosters of qualified applicants, and compiling relevant statistics.
Revised legislation has been agreed vith the Bank and will be submitted for
approval to the National Labor Council, as a condition of credit
effectivoness. In a second phase, to be agreed vith IDA prior to third



-20-
tranche release, the Government vill extend the reforma to the parastatal
soctor.
70.      At the same time, tho Government vill revise the legislation
concerning foreign labor vith the following objectives: (a) the relevant
Placement Committee vill include representatives of the employers; (b) the
vorking and reaidence permits for certain categories of foreign vorkers
will be issued for the same period; (c) foreign vorkers who lose theîr jobs
vill be allowed to seek another job without having their working permits
automatically revoked; and (d) the current tax on foreign vorkeLs' earnings
vill be used for training local labor. The draft legislation has been
agreed vith the Bank and vill be submitted to the National Council of Labor
for approval as condition of credit effectiveness.
71.      The Goverument vill also undertake to strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Labor to promote employment, relying on improved
information on the informal sector and on training and marketing needs. A
national job classification vill be prepared, and the DM0 services vill be
strengthened vith ILO assistance. Submission of an action plan to
strengthen the Ministry of Labor is a condition of second tranche release.
72.      The Government has already revised both the ban on imports of
second-hand technology, provided they are accompanied by performance
guarantee certificates, as well as the structyre of Bujumbura municipal
taxes on informal and small enterprises, which vere strongly biased against
employment generation. As a complement to the above measures, the
Goverament will complete the ongoing study on private sector salary
structure and study alternatives to the medical insurance scheme currently
available to the private sector, so that the medical costs nov totally
borte by the private sector employers vill be shared by the employees,
fmproving equity and reducing excess demand for medical services.
Y. Pinancial Markets
73.      The Government and the public sector have a dominant position in
the financial system. Public ownership accounts for close to 50 percent of
the capital of banks. With one exception (CADEBTI), financial institutions
are in fairly sound condition. Capital funds are adequate, rates of return
are reasonable, and the problem of non-performing loans is manageable.
Efficiency has, hovever, been undermined by a heavy regulatory environment
which prevents competition among financial institutions. Among the factors
hindering an efficient allocation of financial resources are the
aforementioned monopoly of CADEBU regarding compulsory savings; the bani on
pub'hic enterprises to deposit their liquid assests in banks of their
cho:ce; the heavy regulation of interest rates; and the discretionary
pole-zy on Treasury Bills.
74.      In the framework of the proposed SAL II, the Government's
objective is to liberalize the interest rate structure and to replace the
regulatory system by more efficient instruments to manage credit and
liquidity. The present system of multiple interest rates vill be replaced
by a simplified system of two rediscount rates -- one preferential and one
non-preferential -- whereby the Central Bank vould regularly adjust the
discount rate, while letting all the other interest rates be market
determined. In parallel, the credit regulations vill be simplified.



-21-
75.      The above described reform has been launched In April 1988 and
vill be completed by July 1989. In the first phase, the Government has:
(a) established a public auction system for Treasury bills to rationalize
the market for Treasury bills which vere subject to arbitrary measures, and
to provide a basic market-determined interest rate to be used as reference
for determining the rediscount rate; (b) established a system of compulsory
reserves, as an instrument to control overall credit expansion;
(c) eliminated the prior authorization system of credit provided by
comercial banks; and (d) eliminated the ceilings on interest rates for
non-rediscountable credits and the minimum interest rates on sight
deposits.
76.      Moreover, public enterprises are nov allowed to reduce their
deposits in the Central Bank and invest their excess liquidity in
alternative financial assets which vill yield greater profitability. The
system of compulsory savings vill remain for the moment, but depositors
vill gradually be free to place them in the institution of their choice at
market-determined rates. The current monopoly enjoyed by CADEBU vill be
gradually eliminated, as noted earlier (para. 51). The internal procedures
for the Guarantee Fund (to stimulate credit to amall and medium
enterprises) vill be adopted before credit effectiveness.
77.      In the second phase (starting September 1988), the Goverament vill
reduce the number of rediscount rates from seven to three. Rediscount
rates vill be determined on the basis of the market rate for Treasury
Bonds. The interest rates on rediscountable credits vill be determined as
followas a maximum spread of 1 percentage point for the preferential
rediscouat rate and of 4 percentage points for the other two rediscount
rates. The Coverrmeat vili also abolish the minimum interest rates on time
and saving deposits vith the exception of that on pasobook deposits (to
protect in this transitory phase the savings of small depositors) and
adjust the "medium term eoefficient  according to which financial
institutions are required to hold a certain portion of their assets in term
credits, by allowing financial institutions to subscribe to Treasury bills
to meet that requirement and by applying a unified calculation method to
all financial institutions.
18.      In the third phase (starting December 1988), the Government villt
(a) issue Treasury Bonds at progressive rates oriented to smail savinge;
(b) reduce the number of rediscount rates to two; and (c) reduce thé number
of maximum interest rates on credits to two as vell. Total liberalization
of interest rates vill be achieved by July 1989. The above reforms
complement the measures supported by the Small Enterprise APEX Project
approved ln March 1988.
¢. Social Progrâms and Po*rty Alleviation
79.      With a per capita income of about US$240, Burundi is among the
poorest countries in the vorld. Poverty is alo apparent in the low
literacy rate of the adult population (less than 30%), the high infant
mortality rate (120 per thoùsand live births), and the severe cases of
malnutrition detected among rural children. Most of the low income
population is concentrated in the rural sector. Only 6% of the population
la urban, vith a median annual income of about US$2,600, vhich compares
vith a farm income of US$400 (for a feamily of five).  Economic conditions
during 1980-85 vere particularly unfavorable to the poor. The average



-22-
Inflation rate of 15% per year eroded rural incomes, while inadequate
macroeconomic policies and constraints on population mobility hindered
employment generation and development of non-agricultural activities.
80.      Programs with social objectives have long figured in most of
Government's development plans. Projects have been launched with the
support of major donors, including the Bank, to imprcive coverage of social
services and ameliorate rural economic conditions. As a result, health
facilities are now available to most of the population; full vaccination
coverage for infants is attainable by 1990; potable vater ls nov available
to 34 percent of the population (compared with only 10 percent only eight
years ago); and substantial improvement ha- been made in school enrollment:
almost all 7-year old children have been enrolled during the 1987/88 school
year. Moreover, a comprehensive program of family planning and maternal
and child care is being implemented vith Bank assistance; increased
attention has been given to fooderop research and extension; and
cooperative rural savings vere established in 1985.
81.      Generally, the impact of the first SAL has been beneficial for the
lov and middle-income consumers, although some urban dwellers have been
adversely affected by devaluations and by tight public sector vage policies
<para. 13). The proposed second SAL is expected to have a positive social
impact through increased economic activity and employment as vell as
through specific measures aimed at alleviating poverty. The policies which
most directly affect low-income fanilies are the liberalisation of the
labor market, a tax reform to stimulate informal (traditional) sector
activities, and measures to improve agricultural productivity. They
complement the positive impact expected from other programs implemented
under several IDA-financed projecta -- Education Sector, Health and
Population, Small and Medium Enterprises, Urban II and Agricultural
Services -- all of which address selected social issues and the generation
of incomes for the poor.
82.      Nonetheless more is needed to address the social issues that
Burundi faces, as a poor country which suffered economic decline in the
1980's. An action plan is to be implemented under SAL II; it is described
in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex V). During preparation of the
proposed credit, the urban household survey of 1978 *as updated, providing
the basis for analyzing income trends of key vulner;ible groups and for
identifying poverty alleviation measures which need to be addressed. The
Governrnent has also requested to participate in the UNDP/Bank/ADF Social
Dimension of Adjustment Project (SDA). The latter vill provide technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's social monitoring capacity and
help formulate the components of a medium-term action program which vould
be implemented vith the support of the Bank and other donors.
83.      The criteria which have been adopted to guide social action
programs ares (i) targeting of activities to specific low-income groups;
Cii) transparent budgeting of relevant programs; (iii) least-cost solutions
in the design of programs; and (iv) specific implementation calendar for
each activity and its regular monitoring/evaluation before any extension
beyond the agreed time frame in the Public Expenditure Program.
84.      The Government has undertaken to apply these guidelines in
preparing a social action program to be reviewed by the Bank before second
tranche release. Priority vili be given to the folloving activitiess



-23-
(i) Nutritional complements for malnourished children. This would
include services to support the diagnosis of malnourishment and
food preparation activities, notably of veaning food carried out
by vomen cooperatives. A young-child malnutrition diagnosis
program has been prepared and la being implemented by the Ministry
of Health. Targeted nutritional interventions vill be prepared to
address the most severe cases when detected.  Concerning infant
food production, a pilot program has been initiated, supported by
UNICEF, and vill begin production of infant cereal through three
cooperative mille during 1988. The program vill be extended
nationvide.
(ii) Special programs targeted to vomen participation in development
have been launched on a pilot basis, vith the objective of helping
them invest in productive assets. Three provinces are nov covered
vith these projects, vith financing from regional branches of the
National Development Bank. These actions vill be reviewed and
expanded.
85.      Tho Goverxment vill also undertake preparatory work to identify
specific programs in the folloving areass (a) labor-intensive components in
public investments, including the possible re-programming of envisaged
operations; (b) development or extension of small productive projects to be
supported by public and private donors, in line vith ongoing pilot projecte
undertaken by NGOs in small-scale fish farming and small livestock; (c) a
viable rural housing credit program -- which has already reached 18,000
families vith US$200-275 loans -- folloving an evaluation of the existing
program; and (d) technology improvement in emall-scale construction
activities, including training in construction skills and artisanal
manufacture of construction materiale.
86.      The Government has already started an active program to address
the AIDS problem, vith financing from major donors, including IDA (under
the Population and Health Project). It vill nov ensure that the national
program to combat AIDS (under preparation vith WH0 assistance) vill be vell
integrated into the national health services. Based on the studies already
prepared on the agricultural and nutritional sectors, the Government vill
elaborate a food security strategy vith the objective of clarifying food
aid policy and establishing an early varning system.
87.      An action plan and preparation calendar for each sub-component
noted aboya vill be agreed before release of second tranche. Coordination
vill be provided by the Ministry of Plan which vill be responsible for the
implementation of the SDA Project and coordination among various Government
agencles and public and private donors and vill ensure that criteria for
the design and implementation of social action programa are adhered to.
a. Impact of thii Adiustment Protram
88.      Burundi's economic prospects vill depend heavily on the evolution
of the vorld coffee market, the continued implementation of the adjustment
prosram, the performance of neighboring countries (notably in the areas of
trade liberalisation), and the availability of external assistance on
concessional terms. With a stable external environnent, the SAL II
program, the policy actions being implemented in the context of major



-24-
development projecta (aimed at increasing agricultural output and medium-
scale industrial production and at improving transport and commercial
circuits), GDP growth rates of 4.5 to 5 percent a year over the medium-term
are vell vithin reach, provided adequate f nancali support la available.
Such rates are in lino vith past performances real GDP expanded by 5.1
percent a yesar in 1978-81 (para.6) and by 4.5 percent, on average, in 1984-
87 (Table 2).
89.      Two scenarios have been prepared (and included in the second PFP)s
a base scenario, built on most likely levels of aid -- estimated, however,
without taking into account potential additional assistance that could be
mobilized under the Special Program of Assistance for the low-$ncome debt-
distressed countries in Sub-Saharan Africa -- and an alternative scenarlo
wiich uncludes the funds potentially available under the Debt Initlative.
Both scenarios assume that the program described in the preceding pages ta
fully implemented. The base scenario ta predicated upon an annual average
grouth rate of 4 percent at market prices, which would allow real
consumption per capita to grow at just about 1 percent annually (Table 2).
Tihi alternative scenario postulates an average GDP growth of about 5
percent per year at market prices, which would allow real consumption per
capita to limprove at 2 percent annually. The following paragraphe foeus on
the base case.
90.      Coffee prices are projected to recover by 6.5 percent a year in
nominal terme, in lin. with the Bank's latest commodity projections; by
1993, however, they vill still be lover (in real terms) than those of the
last ten years. In the short term, prices may increase more rapidly due to
unexpected market developments (e.g, Impact of adverse veather conditions
in major producer countries such as Brazt.), but it seems likoly that the
underlying long-term trends of declining elasticity of coffee consumption
vith respect to income in developed countries vill make these increases
temporary.
Table 2:s WUNDI - RECENT PERFORMANCE AND OROMM PROSPECTS
(Percent Annuel Average R..l Crowth R.t"e)
Actuel          Projected 1988-98
1981-1984  1984-1987  Base Cas. Alternatlve
op, m.p.                0.6         4.8        4.0      6.1
op:, f.C.               0.3         6.8       8.8       4.8
GCY per cnpl1t         -O.S         0.0        1.1      2.4
Connamptlon per tapita  0.0        -1.0       0.9       2.1
Totel lunveslmnt        1.9         4.8        2.0      4.7
Exporte                 8.6         9.8       6.6       7.6
Cote.                  2.8        4.8        8.1       8.1
Noncoffe Goodo         8.4       26.4       10.0      16.8
uaporte                 7.6        -1.4       4.1       5.7
91.      The projected growth vould origunate from the agrieultural and
industrial sectors. The potentiel of agrieultural resources -- already
positive due to the country's favorable climate (two rainy seasons a year)
and ingenlous farmers -- vould be harnessed through the public investment
program under implementation in the sector, complemented vtth policy
actions concerning extension and research, fertilizers and pesticides,
prtcing and marketing, and resource management. Agricultural value added
vould grow at 3.2 percent per year during the first half of the next



-25-
decade, accelerating to 3.4 percent during the second half, reflecting the
progross anticipated in the fooderop subsector as vell as in the
diversification of agricultural exports away from coffee. Secondary
production would expand at 5.7 percent a year and the tertiary sector at
about 5 percent.
92.      The projections assume a moderate increase in coffee exports --
3.1 percent a year -- in line with the production potential. They alseo
assume an improvement in the quality of Burundian coffee to assure it a
stable share in the international market. Tea exporta would grov by 7.3
percent a year, in line with the conclusions of a recently prepared study,
and cotton by 10 percent a year. These rates are consistent with past
trends and are likely to m&terialize provlded the exchange rate policy is
such as to maintain the cmpetitiveness of tkese products. Manufactured
exports would grov at a rate of 13 percent a Irear (a conservative
assumption compared with the 34 percent registered in the last two years)
as a result of lncreased capacity utilization, and the effect of the new
investments expected in response to the program. Non-coffee exports as a
wbole would grow at about 10 percent per year and the share of coffee
exports would decline from 72 percent in 1987 to 60 percent by 1992.
93.      This export performance, together with the estimated foreign aid
resources, would permit an import growth of about 4 percent a year, which
i8 consistent with the projected GDP growth. Nonetheless, slightly
iaproved terms of trade (a 7.6 percent increase between 1987-89, which
would still keep them 20 percent bolow the 1984-85 level), and a declining
debt service/GDP burden imply that the current accouant deficit would
decline from its 13 percent of GDP in 1987 (excluding transfers and in
constant effective exchange rate terms) to 9.2 percent in 1992.
94.      Taking into accouant the resource availabilities and the weak
possibility of increasing public savings by a large amouat, gross
investment vould grow at about 2 percent a year.  The ratio of investtent
to GDP would be under 19 percent during the projection period which is less
than in 1987 (20 percent) and in line with the average for 1983-84 (Table
1). Financing would have to occur primarily through increased savings.
Domestic savLngs would need to grow to about 7 percent of GDP -- compared
vith 4.5 percent during 1981-86. Public sector savinge (after interest
payments) vould have to increase gradually from a negative value in 1987 to
3.5 percent of GDP by 1992, which is feasible taking into accouant the
financial program to be Implemented.
95.      Alternative Scenario. While the base scenario illustrates a
situation which is quite favorable relative to the past seven years,
further improvement could be achieve if additional efforts were made to
increase the flous of external assistance to Burundi and if market
conditions (especially in neighboring couatries) vere favorable. The
alternative acenario corresponds to the Government's objective of achieving
an average GDP growth rate of about 5 percent which would enable higher
levels of per capita income and consumption levels. It also assumes that
in response to the Governnent's active export promotion policy as a result
of increased regional trade (notably in the context of PTA and CEPGL
countries), non-coffee exports could grow faster than in the base case
(averaging 16 percent per year). To support such growth in GDP and
exports, investment would need to grow at 4.7 percent per year.  The role



-26-
of private Lnvestment in sectors where Burundi seeme to have a comparative
advantage (agro-processing, fruits, some manufacturing) would raise the
ratio of private investment to GDP to about 6 percent at the end of the
period, compared vith less than 2.5 percent during 1981-86. To finance the
necessary import growth (5.7 percent a year) additional foreign resources
will be needed.   Additional investment, together with increased import
capacity, would all8w for higher growth rates: agricultural value added
would grow at 3.4 percent per year during the first half of the next
decade, accelerating to 3.6 percent during the second half; secondary
production at 7.5 percent and the tertiary sector by 6 percent.
96.      Medium-Term Financinx Requirements. 1988-92.  Table 3 summarizes
the financial requirements associated with the alternative high growth
scenario in order to highlight the financial support required to achieve a
more meaningful improvement in per capita consumption, in line with
Government's own objectives. Based on the above assumptions for export and
import growth, the current account deficit (excluding public transfers) is
projected to increase from US$225 million in 1988 to US$275 million in
1992. Over the five-year period, the current account deficit would average
about US$250 million, of which $20 million comprise interest payment on
medium- and long-tenm debt. Amortization is projected at $32 million a
year. A projected reserve build up of US$24 million a year would enable an
average net reserve coverage of 3 112 monthe in 1988 and 4 monthe
afterwards to provide a solid basis for the liberalization program. Total
external capital requirements during the period would average about $310
million, a year, which would have to be met from disbursements of public
medium and long-term (MLT) loans, official transfers (recurrent and capital
grants), and private direct investment.
Table 8: SUMMURY OF EXTERNAL CAPITAL REOUIREMENS ANI SOURCES
1988-92
(million US dollars)
1987      1988-92   Per Year
epitRl R«quIrqMen*s               288.9        1666.0     811.0
-Currnt account cle lit          214.4        Xr4o        .a
of which Interest                18.2      (100.0)     (20.0)
Amortization                     29.0         161.8       82.0
Increase in roserveos            -9.8         119.0      24.0
Other capital n.e.l.              4.6          86.0        7.0
Sources:
r Ydisburs.: exieting comlt»nte   211.0       226.0       46.0
Grante                       S0 ô
81lateraI Sources           U4.4          67.0       12.0
multiateral Sources         83.0         l«8.0      a8.0
Private oans n.0                           8.o        0.6
Diob'ts. from expected ne comitmente:        1021.0      204.0
Private Invetmont                           18.0
Officlai Transfers                         S80.0      118.0
New MLT loans                              428.0      86.0
Bilateral Sources                        160.0       80.0
Multilateral Sources                     280.0       68.0
Total Financina                   211.0        1246.0      249.0
Flnancina go                       27.9         808.0      62.0
Sources: Adjustuont IDA (Incl. SJF)  12 7.9                87.0
IMF SAF (Excluding ESAF)                 26.0        6.0
Identltied Gap                           97.0       20.0
____~~~~~ ~~~ ~             -- -- -- - __  __ _ _---_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _



-27-
97.      About US$45 million a year is expected to be available from
disbursemente of previously contracted loans (up to mid-1987); US$115
million from public transfers (of which, US$60 in the form of capital
grants, assuming that they remain constant in real terme at their recent
trend level) and US$3 million from direct investment.  On the basis of the
major donore' current lending programs, or intentions, the disbursement
flows from new comiittente would average US$86 million a year (excluding
quick-disbursing funds). The remaining financing requirement vould amount to
about US$60 million a year. Assuming a quick-disbursing operation by IDA
every two years, and taking into account the proposed SAL II (including the
SJF co-financing) and the current SAF funds (excluding ESAF), an additional
US$20 million per year vould have to be mobilised under the Debt Initiative
to fill the gap (see Table 3 above). Due to the average favorable terme of
the outstanding debt (para. 14), rescheduling vould not be a useful
alternative to cope vith the burden of the external debt service. This
will, however, continue to hinder the development potential of the country.
In order to assist the Government growth efforts, continued assistance at
highly concessional terme vill be necessary. The share of total debt (DOD)
oved to preferred creditors (including the IMF) is projected to rise from 71
percent in 1987 to 76 percent in 1992.
I. Riske
98.      Despite the Government's commitment to the program, there are some
risks which may hinder its succeseful outcome. The most Important concernas
the volatility of the vorld coffee markets for example, a decline of US$0.10
in the nominal price of coffeo vould coet Burundi US$4 million dollars per
year and a decline of US$0.20 vould erase the entire improvement in the
trade balance achieved by the projected increase in nontraditional exporta.
The projected expansion of non-traditional exports, which in the short term
is oriented to the neighboring countries, can also be hindered by
protectionist policies and payment problems in major trading partners like
Kenya, Zaire, Zambia, and Uganda. The political situation aleo poses some
risks, as the new Government is rightly concerned vlth the need to
consolidate its position and may feel compelled to soften some adjusttent
measures, if these appear to have excessive and enduring social costs.
Finally, the veak institutional capacity of Burundi may hinder the rapid
implementation of some reforme, notably those concerning the reinforcement
of public sector management.
99.      There are, however, some features which reduce the above riske.
Firet, further substantial decline in the vorld coffee price could be
mitigated by a concerted action of the International Coffee Agreement.
Second, the reforme implemented during the firet phase of the prograt helped
to internalize among the economic agenzs the advantages of increased
competition and progressive deregulation of the economy. Third, the
commitment of the new Government and the technical assistance provided by
IDA (in consultation vith other donors, such as UNDP) are likely to help
reinforce the institutional basie. The Gevernment has already strengthen
its monitoring capacity by appointing a high level Committee (at ministerial
level) to follow-up on the implementation of the adjustment program.
Pourth, the major foreign donors have followed up vith interest the progress
made by Burundi in the past two years and can be expected to provide
additional support if the effecte of the program proved slover to
materialise or extraordinary caircumstances occurred which jeopardized the
succese of the program.



-28-
J. Credit Amoimt sed Tranchinx
100.     The second phase of the Government adjustment program described
above would be supported by a proposed Development Credit of US$90 million
on standard IDA terme. The credit will be disbursed in three tranches. The
first tranche in the amount of US$40 million would be released upon
effectiveness, which is expected in July 1988. The second and third tranche
of US$30 million and US$20 million, respectively, would become available
following performance reviews (around March 1989, and October 1989) to
establish that the Government has made significant and satisfactory progress
in implementing the adjustment program, notably in complying with the
specific actions listed in para. 103 and in Annex III, Sections IV and V.
K. Diabursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditina
101.     Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Except for a few exclusions such as tobacco, alcohol, and
defense items, any imports would be eligible for financing, but no more than
US$22.5 million would be used for petroleum and food imports. All
purchases, both public and private, under contracte amounting to US$1
million or more would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines using a standard bidding document cleared with IDA. Imports for
contracte of less than US$1 million equivalent would be in accordance with
the usual practices of the purchaser and, for importe from public agencies,
vould include as a minimum the submission of at least three quotations
unless the purchase necessarily involves proprietary equipment.
Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of less than US$10,000
equivalent would not be eligible for IDA financing.
102.     To facilitate the disbursement of the credit, a special account of
US$15 million will be open at the Central Bank (BRB). The credit would
reimburse 100 percent of the CIF cost of eligible importe. Diabursements
vill be based on statement of expenditures (SOE) for contracte of less or
equal to US$500,000 equivalent. Full documentation vill be required for all
other diabursements. Retroactive financing will be permitted for those
eligible importe made before the date of agreement but not before April 1,
1988, up to an amount equal to US$18 million. Public and private sector
importe would be eligible, except for military equipment and luxury consumer
goods. Importe financed by other sources vould not be eligible for IDA
financing. The Central Bank would be responsible for assembling requested
supporting documentation collected from the commercial banks, to be provided
as mentioned in Annex VI. The closing date of the credit vill be December
31, 1990.
L. 1onitorina
103.     Monitoring of performance under the SAL will be carried out through
regular supervision missions and monthly meetings of the Resident
Representative vith the 'Comité de Suivi". The folloving reflects the
actions which the Government has already taken under the program, the
agreements reached with the Goverrment concerning the actions it vill have
to take before credit effectivenesa as vell as the apecific conditions for
the release of the second and third tranches.



-29-
Actions already taken b' the Government under th. proposed program:
a. Promulgation of Export Promotion Decree (para. 37);
b. Elimination of import restrictions on luxury goode (para. 36);
c. Agreement on the proces and launching the preparation of the 1989-91
public expenditure program and the transitional unified budget for
1989 (para. 40);
d. Agreement on action program for CABEDU (para. 51), completion of
liquidation procedures for SOMEBU and SOPEBU, and preparation of the
liquidation decree for SOGESA (para., 50); and
e. Adoption of revised municipal taxes structure (para. 72).
Effectiveneas conditionss
a. Agreement on the definitive PIP for 1988-90, lncluding reserve
projecte (para.42);
b. Agreement on calendar for progressive elimination of CADEBU's monopoly
on compulsory savings (para. 51);
c. Promulgation of the decree liquidating SOGESA (para. 50);
d. Submission of the revised labor legislation for approval of the
National Labor Council (para. 69-70); and
e. Adoption of internal procedures for the Guarantee Fund (para. 76).
Second Tranche Release Conditions:
a. Agreement on macroeconomic framework including fiscal deficit, 1989-91
PEP, and 1989 transitional unified budget (para.40);
b.  Implementation of third phase of tariff reform, including revision of
nomenclature (para. 36);
c. Signature of performance contracts vith VERRUNDI and REGIDESO (para.
55-56); agreement on tlmetable for liberalization of importe competing
vith VERRUNDI production (para.36); and agreement on action program
for SOSUMO to be implemented during 1989 (para. 64);
d. Agreement of coffee pricing structure for 1989190 season (para. 62);
e. Liberalization of rice marketing (para. 65);
f. Reduction of rediscount rates from 3 to 2 and implementation of all
other measures included in the second and third stages of credit
reform (para. 77-78);



-30-
g. Agreement on action plah for poverty alleviation (para. 84); and
h. Agreement on action plan to reinforce the Ministry of Labor and its
agencies in charge of employment promotion (para. 71).
Third Tranche Release Conditions:
a. Agreement on macroeconomic framework for 1990-92, including fiscal
deficit, and 1990 transitional unified budget (para.40);
b. Satisfactory implementation of action plan for SOSUMO (para. 64);
c. Completion of first phase of elimination of CADEBU's monopoly on
compulsory savings (para. 51);
d.  Agreement on action plan to improve civil service efficiency
(para.41);
e. Agreement on action plan for privatization/liquidation of the public
enterprise sector on the basis of studies to be carried out during
1988/1989 (para. 56); and
f. Launching second phase of labor market liberalisation and extending it
to the parastatal sector (para. 69).
PAR? V - Bm GRU  OPU&TIQtW AND STTEGT
104.     The Bank has made 32 credits to Burundi amounting to US$278
million of which US$89 million has not been disbursed. Of total IDA
lending to Burundi, 42 percent has been for agriculture, 34 percent for
infrastructure (water, pover, transportation) and the balance (24 percent)
for social seçtors (education, health) and technical assistance. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits, and IFC investments.
105.     Historically, the volume of IDA lending to Burundi has fluctuated
depending on policy performance and political and economic evolution.
During 1962-72, which coincided with internal political difficulties, Bank
involvement vas limited to operations on coffee production, highways and
water supply. After 1976, IDA operations increased rapidly, with projects
in agriculture and highways as vell as for new sectors: fisheries,
forestry, education, industry, rural development, telecommunications,
power, technical assistance and housing and urban development. IDA lending
increased markedly in FY85-87 with the approval of the first SAL, two major
credits in agriculture and industry and support to health and education.
106.     The Bank Group lending strategy is to support the Government's
medium-term economic adjustment program by foeusing on; (i) maintenance of
external trade policies intended to accelerate export growth and efficient
import substitution; (ii) improvements in policies affecting the social
sectors; (iii) public sector management and fiscal policies to maintain
economic growth and strengthen public savings; (iv) financial policies to
stimulate domestic savings and to allocate funds more efficiently; (v)
policy incentives to. expand productive employment; and (vi) investment



-31-
operations (outlined in the next paragraph) which complement the growth
strategy of the Government and address the longer-term structural
constraints through active population policies, investments to strengthen
agricultural production and stimulate SME creation, effective natural
resource management, enhanced food security, expanded human resource
potential, and targeted poverty-alleviation programs.  In addition to the
proposed credit, a third SAL is envisaged in the early 1990's.
107.     Several other projects already approved or under consideration
complement the adjustment lending and reinforce the effort to meet the
objective of the Governmuent's structural adjustment program. In the
productive sectors, the Bank la assisting the Government to improve and
diversify the production base and to stimulate the participation of the
private sector, hence facilitating the economic response to the policy
reforme underway. In agriculture, the foeus is to help reinforce basic
agricultural services and improve efficiency in use of public expenditures
(Agricultural Services Project, FY89) and improve efficiency of the coffee
sector (Coffee Export Adjustment Operation planned for FY89). In industrv,
the Bank is supporting the development of saal1 and medium enterprises to
encourage the emergence of a Burundian entrepreneurial class and increase
employment opportunities (Small and Medium Enterprise Project, approved in
March 1988). In the social sectors, assistance is being provided to expand
coverage of social services within the financial limits of the public
sector, ensuring adequate cost recovery and adequate allocation to priority
actions. The Population and Health project (approved in December 1987),
supports thé Government's efforts to control population growth, incroase
health coverage, address the AIDS issue, and !mprove the financing and
efficiency of health services. The Education Sector project (approved in
February 1988) in assisting the Government in extending universal primary
education vithin feasible budgetary limits through improved planning,
investment, cost recovery, and policy actions to control costs of secondary
snd higher education. In the urbanlvater supply sector, the Bank is
helping to develop opportunities in artisanal activities and foster
development of secondary urban centers (Second Urban project under
preparation) and to improve rural living conditions through access to safe
drinking vater. In infrastructure (transport and energy), the objective is
to assist the Governaent to allocate its limited resources to developmental
priorities and to improve management of relevant parastatals. Expenditures
on transport should maintain a proper balance between road construction and
maintenance, while developing a transport investment planning capability
and improving efficiency of road transport.  The Fifth Highway Project
planned for FY90 is designed with this objective.
108.     In support of the above strategy, the economic and sector work
program will foeus primarily on assessing the impact of the structural
adjustment process and strengthening the Government's public expenditure
programming.  To mobilize the external resources required to support the
structural adjustment program, the Bank will continue to play a key role in
aid coordination.  It will collaborate with the UNDP in a special co-
financing meeting planned for the Summer to present the objectives and
scope of the second phase of the Government's adjustment program and
mobilise the resources needed to finance the identified gap for 1988-89,
discuse the TA program and review the documents to be presented at the
Round Table planned for the Fall.



-32-
ART VI - RELATIONS VISR THE IMF
109.     Burundi negotlated a Stand-by arrangement vith theI MF in 1986 in
order to get the INFIs endorsement to the financial program. No purchases
vere planned and none vere made.  In early 1987, the first review of the
program vas not concluded because of the failure to meet the performance
criterta due to the shortfall in coffee revenues and, consequently, the
much larger than anticipated public sector borrowing from the domestic
banking system. Burundi requested assistance ln lmplementing another
financial program in early March 1987.  Discussions vere initiated in July
1987, in thé context of the preparation of the second Policy Framework
Paper, and pursued vith the new Government in January 1988. A second year
SAF program wv  approved by the Executive Directors of the IMF on May 4,
1988.  The contents of the new financial program are described in paras.
32-33. Given the natrre of the proposed adjustment program and the need
for fiscal and balance of payments policies to support structural reforme
at the sector level, there has been close collaboration between the staff
of the Bank and the IMF in the preparation of the firet SAL, two Policy
Framework Papers, and the proposed second SAL.
PART VII - RECONHENDATION
110.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit vould comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
111.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Deve.opment Credit and that the Association vould act as Administrator of
the proposed Special Joint Financing non-reimbursable contribution from
Japan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1988



-33-                                         Annexc I
Page 1
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
-               BURUNDI
Reference Groupe (NRE)
Most
Recent                    Lower m1d
1965       1973    Estimat.   Low-income        income
AREA
Total tand area (thou sel km)     27.8        27.8       27.8
Agricultural (% of total)         58.4        71.9       79.7
GP PER CAPITA (current USI>           70          80        240         260        820
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          3.131       3.576      4.573
Urban pop. (% of total)              2           2          3          22          36
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        1.4        2.2         2.1        2.5
Urban                                        1.4        2.3         3.8        4.2
Life expect. at blrth (yrs)         44          45         48          60         58
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                   71370
Stationary pop. (thou)                               23,600
Population dens1ty per sq km
of agrtcultural land               193       . 179        206         349        284
Pop. age structure (t):
0-14 yrs                          44          44         44          37         39
15-64 yrs                         53         53          52          59         55
65 and above                       3           3          4           4          a
Crude blrth rate (per thou)         47          46         47          29         36
Crude oeath rate (per thou)         24          24         19          10          il
Total fert1llty rate               6.4         6.4        6.5         3.2        3.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)       143         135        120          72         82
Child death rate (per thou)         38          34         24           9          il
Famlly planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)          ..          ..         ..
Users (% of marrled women)        ..          ..
F0o0. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81 a 100)              *-          92         98         115         108
Per capita Supply Of:
Calories (per day)             2.391       2.275      2.116       2.339      2.514
Proteins (grame pur day)          82          83         78          5S         56
Ppp. per physician (thou)           ..        45.4          ..        8.9        6.9
Pop. per nurse (thou)               ..          ..         ..         2.4         1.4
Pop. per hosp1tal bed (thou)        ..         0.9         ..         1.1        0.8
Accese to safe water
(% of population):  Total         ..          ..         24
Urban         ..         77         90
Rural        ..          ..         20
Population Growth             Infant Mortality       Primary School Enroliment
8                                                       s, O                - - 
O t       518-BS         .1                    Li * i UUPU-O
= niait mU CROUP                                *  DIIJV!t OIQ



- 34 -                                        hnnex I
Page 2
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BURUNDI
Reference Groupe (MRE)
Recent                    Lower mid
t96S       1973    Estbmate   Low-1ncome        Income
LASOW FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)          1.592      1.753       2.113
Female (%)                         46         45          45          31         29
Agriculture t%)                    94         93          93          72         55
Industry (%)                        2          2           2          13          16
Participation rate (%>
Total                              S1         49          46          41         35
- aiZale                           56         55          52          54,        49
Female                             46         44          41          28         20
Age dependency ratio                0.9        0.9         0.9         0.7       -0.8
8IOUSING
Average sixe of housetiold:
Total
Urban                                                        a a
Rural                                                      4 a
Percentage of dwelllnge with
electricity:
Total                                                        a
Urban                                                     23 a
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrol lment rates:
Prlmary: Total                     26         30          45          97         103
male                     36          42         55         109         110
Femnale                  15          20         36          84          97
Seconcdary: Total                   1          2           4          32         40
male                    2           3          5          41          48
Female                  1           1          3          25          39
Pup l-Taacner ratio:
Primary                            40         32          56          36         32
seaondary                          il         12                      18         20
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                     32          es          49         71
INCONE* CONSlPTIiN. ANm POVERTV
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of o11 equivalant)                5          7          26        310         345
Percentage of private Income
reclved by:
Highest 10% of householcs.
Highest 200% 
Lowest 20%
Lowes t 40%
Est. absolute poverty income
leval (US$ par cap1ta):
Urban                             2.           .           3b
Rural                                                    136.  b
Est. pop. babelow absolute
poverty incomne level <%)
Urban                                         5.             b
Rural                                                     85 b
Passenger cars/thou pop.            07         1.0                    0.3         4.0
Newsepaer circulation
(per thousandl population)                     0.1                    t6.0       14.0;
-ai ~a11ab1e. w  ~î    t   ~   ~  a~  p  __  IECSE Au.iat 1982
%oet aveil ew   now w uk  _eu wM    et »"41" * oea pu "P   hf tu ieti to     e«unod
Omp avero.s ae pffl"m  Wghto- Couat,V eowng bsadrn o daa avIaOUt Ofl Io gaiB «tt. Umose _ef  ,aé MW& ibd.
lmS efer te ay v,q bhto 19 end l"U leu3 boati_ 1970 l lem _  l i ui.
4. 179. b. 1078.



- 35 -                                          Annex I
Page 3
Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Totaltfertilitr rate - Average number of children that
vary among countries or within one country over    would be born alive to a woman during her lifetime,
time. For instance, different countries define urban    if during her childbearing years she were to bear
area" or 'safe water" in different ways. For more    children ut cach ape in accordance with prevailing
detailed definitions. see the technical notes to the    age-specieic fertiliîy rates.
World Development Indicators.                    Iqfant m  aged 0- 1)  mortalit: rate - Number of infants
per thousand live births. in a given year. who die
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 before reuching one year of age.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and  Chiil (f ged 1-4) niortality rale - Number of deaths
inland waters.                                   of children. aged 1-4. per thousand children in the
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    same age group, in a given year.
cultural area used for crops. pastures. market and  Famil plainmig - a(fceptors. (ulhousands) - Annual
kitchen gardens or lying fallow. as a percentage of    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
total.                                           ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
ning -program.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - 1986 GNP per capita    Familrv planning - uisers (percenbage of mar fd wam-
estimates at current market prices. calculated by the    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
conversion method used for the Worid Dank Atlas.  age who are practicing, or whose husbands are
practicing. any formn of contraception. Child-bearing
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                  age is generally 15 to 44. although for some coun-
Total population - mid-year (millions). 1986 data.  tries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    groups.
countries follow different definitions of urban pop-
ula,ion which may affect comparability of data    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRMON
among countries.                                 Index of food production per capita (1979-81 - 100)
Population growtzh rate (percent) - total and urban -    - Index of per capita annual production of aI food
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
tions.                                           seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Lsje e.xpectaner ai birth (years) - Number of years a    mary commodities (for example. sugarcane instead
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the    trients (for example. tea and coffee are excluded).
same throughout its life.                        They include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals, vegetables,
Population projections                           oit seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
Population in 2000 - Projections of population    livestock products. Aggregate production of cach
given total population by age and sex. fertility and  country is based on national average producer price
the demographic parameters of mortality rates. and  weights.
migration in the base year 1980.                 Per capita supply of calories - Computed from energy
Stationarv population - Projected population level    equivalent of net food supplies available in a coun-
when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.. the    try, per capita. per day. Available supplies comprise
birth rate is constant and is equal to the death rate,    domestic production, imports less exports, and
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    changes in stock. Net supplies exclude animal feed,
zero.                                            seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in food
Population densitr. agricultural land - Population per    processing. and losses in distribution.
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    Per capita supply> ofproîein (grams per day) - Protein
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
years. working age group 15-64 years, and people of    supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
65 vears and over as percentages of population.  all countries. established by United States Depatt-
Crude birtl rate - Annual live births per thousand  ment of Agriculture, provide for minimum allow-
population.                                      ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    grams of animal or pulse protein.
population.                                      Population per ph.sician - Population divided by the



-36 -                                         Annex I
Page 4
number of practicing physicians qualified from a    and rural - Conventional.dwellings with electricity in
medical school at university level.             living quarters. as a percentage of all dwellings.
Population per nursing person - Population divided by
the number of practicing graduate nurses, assistant    EDUCATION
nuses practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  Enrolimens rates
Population per hospital hed - Population divided by  Primaaryv sdool enrolimene  - total. male andfemale
the nwmber of hospital beds available in public and    - Gross enrolîment of all ages at primary level as a
private, general and specialized hospitals. and reha-    percentage of school-age children as defined by each
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments per-    country, and reported to Unesco. While many coun-
manently staffed by at least one physician.     tries consider printary school age to be 6-11 years,
Access to sofe uater (percentage of population) -    others use different age groups. For some countries
total. urban. and rural - People (total, urban. and    with universal education, gross enroîlment may ex-
rural) with reasonable access to safe water supply    ceed 100 percent since some pupils are younger
(includes treated surface waters or untreated but    or older than the country's own standard primary
uncontaminated water such as that from springs.    school age.
sanitary wells. and protected boreholes). In an urban  Secondary school enroliment - total, male andfem-
area this may be a public fountain or standpost    aie - Computed in a similar manner, but including
located not more than 200 meters away. In rural    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
areas this implies that members of the household do    secondary schools. The age group is usually 12 to 17.
not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total
fetching water.                                 students enrolled in school divided by the total
number of teachers.
LABOR FORCE                                       Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percent-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active,    age ofchildren starting primary school, that contin-
including armed forces and unetuployed but exclud-    ue until grade six.
ing housewives and students.
Fmale (percent) - Female labor force as a percent-   INCOME, CONSUMIPTION, AND POVERTY
age of total labor force.                       Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of ofl
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming.    equivalent) - Annual consumption of commercial
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    primary energy (coal, lignite, petroleum, natural gas,
labor force.                                    and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
Industr.v (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Income distribution - Incorne (both in cash and kind)
tion. manufacturing and electricity. water and gas as    accruing to percentile groups of households ranked
a percentage of total labor force.              by total household income.
Participation rate (percent) - total. male, and.female    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
- Participation rates are the percentage of population  motor cars seating fewer than eight persons.
of all ages in the labor force. These are based on ILO  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
data on the age-sex structure of the population.  Average circulation of a 'daily, general interest
Age dependenc*y ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    newspaper," defined as a news periodical published
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    at least four times a week.
15-64).                                         Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per
capita) - urban and rural - Absolûte poverty income
HOUSING                                         level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Average siLe of household (persons per household) -    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
total. urban, and rural - A household consists of a    are not affordable.
group of individuals who share living quarters and    Estimated population below absolute poverty icame
main meals.                                     kevel (percent) - Percentage of urban and rural pop-
Percentage of dwellings *with electricit.r - total, urban.    ulations who live in 'absolute poverty."



ANNEX I
- 37                                                          Page 5
Sas.:
oe0omc DIM=O
6sAE -0
-I Actual       PrIac     -     Projec-
1Q82   -108   1984   lm8   Io"8   lm07   19m    1m    10o   lmn    lm
CP (maria Driem)  roeu  rate       -0.4%   a.u1  -0.1%   7.4%   4.4%    1.71   4.1%    8.ss   4.0%   4.1S   4.#%
oP (<acter .0.) groom rat.        -2.0%   4.0%  -0.8%    7.5%  a.8%   4.7%    8.7%   8.0    4.0%    4.2%   4.8%
-e. grouh pets il                 -4.4    a.8ss   2.9%   8.1%   7.0%  -2.4%    4.7S   4.#    4.1%   4.1S   4.2%
ODY cmoite oro.th rai Il           4.0%    0.01    0.0%   0.2%   4.0%   4.2%    18%    1.1%   1.0U   1.0%   1l.O
Cm»bffiion par cap.ta              0.9O. -8.1%   4.9n   2.7%   0.8%   4.81   2.1%   0.as   0.91s  0.n    0.7%
grMO* rate
DO i  amui. (WS)                   1.2   12.2   17.0   2.0   82.8   47.2   40.8   80.4   80.0    8.7   M.$
Dab arvic.jI                      10.7%  12.5%   15.7%   28.2%  25.1%  48.81  88.2%  88.il  81.4   20.9   28.4%
D0é 8ervl«ie/P                     1.%    1.1%   1.0%    2.51   2.7%   8.8%   4.1%   .         &8.    8.as   8.«
ofe. la>v.t.ub   2                 18.9   17.81  18.4%   U.0   18.0s  10.9%   20.0%   10.2#  19.0   18.9   18.9%
Dosabic *twOgulP                  -1.4%    .0%   4.21   4.7%   8.8%    7.7%   8.2s   8.8a s     .8%   7.0' 7.8%
talelnal aavtuge/U                 8.8% .   .4%   O.c%   0.8%   l0.1   10.OS  10.0%  10..8%  10.8%   11.0%   U1.8
Drgial sécicle Rate                ..  14.0  -10.1  -8.8   21.8    e.2    0.8   14.0   14.8    M.8   18.1
PbItc i,w.twm _t                  18.O   17.#1  14.5%  11.7%   1.4%  18.7%  14.as  14.1%  18.7%  18.8%   18.0%
uli e aavinga/                    0.8S  -0.4S   8.0%   8.4%    4.4%  -1.4%    2.1%   8.2%   8.2s   8.5o    8.18
Privai. isven_abP                  1.29%   1.2    2.7%   2.4%   2.4%   2.4%   2.7%   8.%   *8.4%   8.as   8.9o
Prive" envir4./P                   4.%   68.8S   8.9%   8.s%   8.7%   11.4%   7.9%   7.1S   7.4%   7.8%    8.0%
RaOte or PIo/Privai Iuwea.         11.8      ..   8.8    4.0    8.8    8.8    8.4    4.4    4.0    8.8    8.8
qenei Rne-Av 11                   14.9%  12.8%   14.1%  18.9%  18.8%  12.2%  14.M   l8.8   18.8%   18.91  18.4%
0ara E           t        4f      27.es  80.e%  2a.7n  21.8%   22.8%  25.0%  24.9%  2s.86   21.8%   DO.SS  21.«
88<1.4 (-3/UIP                   -12.7%  -18.1%  -11.5   -7.6s   4.5%  -12.8%   -o.7%   4.1    -.    -o.cS  4.0%
_apOn  COUS> Oro   Raf"            7.9b1 -18.8%   -7.9«  82.8%  -12.8%   12.8%   4.7%    a.8%    7.81   7.s8  a.#%
laponte/U                          119.45   0.8   10.1%  10.7%  10.4%   8.6S  10.8%   11.29  11.8  211I8  U2.2%
-laOn   tS  orquh    Rdi          88.4%   -7.s%   o.1%   -2.5%   2.4%  -4.5%    4.2s   4.1%   4.0S   4.18   4.1U
lont./U                           24.8%   27.7%  24.9%   19.3  18.2%  20.as  25.8   24.8%   24.4%  2M.9   24.0%
Carr""t Aouai (i ui.UW)          -174.8 -170.4 -1S.2  -12B.2 -15.8 -4.4  -2.    -1.8  -.S  -2S7.2 -8.8
Cor. Aouat/eP                     -4.81 -12.0%   4.SS   -4.8%   -8S     -0.8   -0.0%  -8.05  -8.4S  -7. M   -7.8%
c* Officiel Tr e.               -17.18 -10.7%  -.1.#  -11.0%  -l.O   -17.08 -17.8%  -17.1%  -10.9%  -10.2%  -18.4%
adj. fSr .xcaag. rate          -17.0%  -10.9%  -1.25  -11.2%  -10.2%  -18.0C  -11.9«  -10.18 -10.4S -10.0S  4.2%
siUM  par calte - UCP par capte adjueiad fer changea la ie terme of Inde.
2/ V lce  variation of locite .
8i laeludifn publil traa ..O»
4/ On * coe_ltaI 6  1-. Intde  aeaea .ueaiira  and oa-teading t. pblie .n.rprla..



- 38 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 6
.OU. 
-          hsActul     ---P1-                 Pevs
lmn   lm    lm    lm    lm    îw          lm    1m    19    1991   19
UP (v1.t" rie.) goetl rate    -0.45   8.1   4.15   7.45   4.45   1.1    S.0    5.45   S.M   4.8    8.15
CP Cf-top Mot ar-.à es"        -2.0«   4.0  -0.8    7.W   8.0    4.715   4.85   4.05   4.75   4.01   4.10
201 gr..eh ru. l/              4.45   8.85   2.9f   8.5   74.0   -2.48   5.1   5.0S 5.18   4.«5   5.05
My#/ cupiti ercth rut il       -LO0   0.01   0.05   0.#8   4.01  4.2   S.I   2.8    2.8    1.15   2.0«
Ciauptlo. per .upite            0.95  -4.1S   4.9f   2.7n   0.8    0.5   2.8    2.#   2.9    1.81   1.75
-   ru.
Db survime (1)                  11.2   12.2  127.0   2.0  82.8   47.2   49.S   »0.4   80.9   88.7   88.8
De" .aruji*                     10.1S  1.99  18.     28    2t.15  48.a.    »9.0  84,a O   0.«  29.9   2t.ff
0De6 8.uvlc*/P                  1.1S   1.15   1.08   2.85   2.15   8.«5  S.OS   8.75   8.45   8.#5   8.28
Ou   _m       U  O/             t8.9S   7.05  18.4S  1. S    .8S  10.05- 80.0   19.05  19.t5  19.85  19.85
Daut-i aeviawP                  -1.45    .0O   4.1V   4.1S. 5.t5   7.0S   8.a4   8s.    t.t3   B.t3   9.0O
NPttiol ein.8   8.4    9.«*  9.0   10.15  1O.«5  U1.4S  tt.CS  U.5  12.tS  12.45
Pureinal  avN    t                 .. t04.0  -19.1  -84.â   21.t    8.   2D.2   18.4  tO.0  t2.2   14.1
Publie lt_owamb#4m              1S.0 S 7.«1  t4.SS  11.7   »8.45  18.7   18.0   14.8S  1.0  18.05  11.9f
Pblic &aIêgai                   0.9O  -0.4S   8.0   8.4s   4.4S  -1.4S   1.4S   2.SS   8.05   S.8S   4.2#
P-lvut- inv.utet/               1.20   1.lS   2.71   2.4S   2.4S   2.4S   8.05   8.    8.111a  4.«   s.1n
Pei t.n tauvl.o.U               4.85    .5   8.95   8.OS   5.7S  11.45   O.ff  9.a0   8.2#   *.t3   8.8E
natte et Pub§loPlvut  Igt.    l.S        ..   *.8   4.9    5.8    0.6    8.0   4;2    8.8    8.4   2.1
Oorurua..t Nsvoesas./UPw 84.0S  22.91  14.15  ».9 S           .«  12.28  14.SS  t.S SS.05  18.2M   t.45
_unuu.u1  pUmditure./UP 4/    27.11  99.05  28.75  21.SS  22.S  28.05t  24.29  28.«5  2t1.0   20.8S  21.15
Dufludt (-)J/P                 -12.7  -18.1t  -lt.11   -7.05  -.4.8  -12.0  -9.71  -4.05  -4.45  -4.t3  -4.t0
Lasee        ofro u " r7.   -1.05  -7.05  85.85 -12.8   12.80   7.45   9.t5   0.0    8.«5   9.05
Ei.P/                           9.99   9.0.   10.l1  tO.7S  10.4«   8.t3S  10.4S  1t.05 1t.2S   l.4«   U.0
zaTr <CM" fSrnl Rutl            2.4S  -7.as   9.t  -2.99   2.4S  -4.SS   S.tS   S.05   s.7n   8.85   f.
26.tS  27.71  24.2#  19.«5   8.28  20.05  2âO.8   28.85  285  28.18  28.7S
Pru#vmi Ac.ot ci* M.WM)       -174.8 -270.4 -1M.2 -128.2 -1U.8 -t4.4 -.8 -.4   -4.8 -268.2 -1.8
car. Ahht/UP                   -4.8  -12.0t  -0.0  -4.J#  -8.85  -9.5  -9.15  -4.9   4.0   -8.481  4.S1
exel. OfficieI Treuaufér     -17.15 -19.7S  -1J.2  -11.05 -11.S -17.05 -18.1  -17.05 -».JS  -15.S -U.9
udJ. fer _age rut.e         -17.05 -19.9  -8.2# -11.28 -l0.28 -18.05 -1O.«99.0   -O.SS -9.81  -9.15
Cm MW moite - UW r MW moite 0 td feru _ la _I. tbe   of truie.
/  cied.. ,arîuto ef ut*au_
81 llidlo   pulic tr 1ama
4/ U a mamin _    but_.    l"»ludu     t_ t .mp..Itm_ sud mimldime te pull le _at.rrlu.



- 39 _
ANNEX I
Page 7
Table 2: ULANCE OF PAVUNTS, ACTW  L AND PROJECTZONS
(in millions of dollars et current prices)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Exporte f.o.b                88    112    126     96    116    la0    145    162
(coffet)                     78     9S    108     69     76     81     84      98
Zmporte c. I.f              184    171   18     219    246    268    292    819
Services (net)              -78    -77   -88    -98   -1OS   -1OS  -110   -116
(Internat)               (8)   (lO)   (14)   (18)   (18)   (18)   (18)  (19)
Current transftrs            8s   8s       62     S8     79      76     78     82
Current Account            -125    -90   -89   -167   -158   -1e6   -181  -190
(Exel. public
transfors)            -168   -128   -1l1   -216   -226   -288   -247  -582
DIrect Investment             1      1      a      2       2      2      8 S
Caplital grant.              40     40     48     87     40      48     50     g0
MLT Loans (net)              81    s5      67    118    167    148    149   las
D1sburs_ nte et            90     78     88    147    187    174    180    166
Repaymnte                  -9    -17    -22    -29    -as    -81    -31    -s8
Other c pital n..e           -6      2     -2    - 5     -8      -8     -9    -14
Overall balance              -2      9     22     -9     64      26      9     10
Fînancina cou                                            82      12      -     28
Memorandum items:
Net reervs as
months of import         0.8    1.1    2.6    1.5    8.t   4.0    4.0    4.0
Debt Service ratio         16.7  28.2  26.1  48.8  88.0  84.0  80.4  29.6
Csoff. e*xporta
volume ('000 tons)       26.4  88.8  28.8  29.8  80.5  81.4   82.4  88.8
Prise (US8/kg)           2.86   2.81   8.78   2.82   2.63   2.78   2.88   2.90
Current Account/CDP
Excluding transfers (X)  10.2  11.0   11.5   17.0  18.1  17.0  16.3  16.7
(adJusted) b/            16.2  11.2  10.2  18.0   10.9    9.8    9.6   9.8
a/ Includes SJF f inancing end IVF SAF resources In 1988 and 1989, and the third
tranche of the proposed IDA credit In 1990.
b/ la terme of constnt effective exchange rate using 1982 as the base yar.



- 40 -
JM  I
Page 8
Table 8s FISCAL    C OF STUZAflON  ROUIM
(n'u bli1lons la current pril..)
1986   1980   187  s9o8  19m    i         19l1   lm
itecelpte Md Orma            24.8    9.9  24.8  80.4  84.7 ».9   89.8   42.0
Reoalpc                      19.7   28.9  18.9  24.S  28.0  29.6   81.8   U4.6
Tex Revenues               18.2   21.2  17.B  21.7  26.4  27.1   28.9   81.0
*/W e"ff.                   8.7    8.0   0.0   1.6   2.0   2.7    2.8    2.9
Ibn tax rewes               1.6    2.8   1.0   2.6   2.8   8.0    8.8    8.6
crante                       4.8    6.2   S.4   6.0   6.6   6.8    7.1    7.4
Coerma eOmdlture             14.8   17.8  21.4  21.4  22.   28.7   24.8   2.4
Was« t'  Salarles           7.1    7.8   8.7   9.4  10.0  10.S   10.9   11.8
Saod'j -nd Srvies-         8.8    4.8   4.6   4.9   6.8   6.7    6.0    6.8
Transftre end Subeidles     1.8    2.1   2.2   2.5   2.6   2.8    2.9    8.0
lâierest eà Public Debb     2.0    2.2   8.0   8.7   8.8   8.9    8.?    8.7
(exeroal de")            1.2    1.4   1.9   2.5   2.4   2.S    2.6    2.6
(dmnable)                0.8    0..   1.1   2.2   2.6   1.4    1.1    1.1
othrel V                    0.2    0.9   2.f   0.9   0.9   1.0    1.0    1.0
oeVerumest SavOiP             9.7   11.7   2.9   9.0  12.1  18.2   14.8   16.6
Capital £mpeedtuve
end Mai  Imo               16.C   1.4  1N.C  19.8  20.4  19.2   18.8   18.1
L-CaI   1fian ACd:UEI)     2.9    2.9   4.C   4.0   4.2   4.1    4.1    4.1
(Ferelgn fineaooed        12.0   18.5  14.0  1S.8  10.2  16.1   14.2   14.0
vterli 9sf 1lt  <Colb.)    -5.8   -4.7  -14.8 -10.8  -4.8  -4.1   -8.6   -1.6
(Eaeluding sra e )       411.     1I5;zEg  R    -IRr7  -12.9  -151n   -90
Change la armer              -1.ô   -1.4   2.8  -1.6  -1.1   0.0    0.0    0.0
Suami I RDeei.  (t ah E    l d-4   -4-.1 -12.  -12.0  -9.4  -o         -4_   =-1.6
Net Finaacing
Foretgn borrosims           6.8    6.5   8.8   9.5  10.1   6.7    7.7    7.0
01 bursesmta -.7    8.4  11.0  12.0  12.9  11.6   10.7   10.2
(osf which $AL)         C..)    C..)  (1.7)  (2.8)  (8.2)  (8.2)   (8.2)   (8.ô)
Alortigation             -1.4   -2.0  -2.8  -2.6  -2.8  -2.8   -8.0   -8.2
Deseebli (net)              2.1   -0.4   8.6   2.4  -0.7  -2.6   -4.2   -6.4
sanking systue             1.0   -1.7   1.2   0.8  -0.?  -2.6   -4.2   -5.4.
Other                     0.5    1.8   2.8   1.Ô    ..   ..
moarandu Ite_.                                  (In percent of ODP)
TeX Revenue end remane     17.8   19.2  16.6  18.1  19.0  18.7   18.5   18.4
N ci-effss tan   venu    10.8   10.8  10.8  12.1  12.5  12.4   12.8   12.8
TotaI expecdilture         21.6   22.8  25.0  24.2  28.0  21.8   20.1   19.0
Sueousot deflit
Excludil  Oran"9         -7.6    4.6  -12.8  -9.7  -8.1  -0.S   -5.0   -8.9
Iaoludlng granta         -4.1   -8.1  -9.4  -0.1  -4.0  -8.1   -1.6    4 .7
1/ nenIdes gi1ol adJucte_ut to deflcl, rslated teo xtrabudg.try opsatlons
on eohr g..rmmnt ascouate.



-41 
ANNEX I
Page 9
Table 4: PUBLC IWVUIVN  PRIOU l98-0
(le btillaon ot current Fbu end percentsges)
PDP      Cor              Structure-
19u8-90    PIP                (In S)
Binu Psu    (S)    198        1989     198
Agriceultur                 a.a        89       41       4d        42
Indust./Mlning/Ebrgy        lO.        e1      18       16        10
services                     2.2       47        1        4         4
Sub-Total productUve      48.0                es        t9       89
Tran orti/T.leome           16.4       88       22        20       20
Urbefn/frmlag                1.8       08        1        8         4
Sub-T.l EeonoMI lInt.       17.2                28        28       24
Sduo.ii.n          -         8.2       89       1         il       12
Hlnlth                       4.0       88        C         5        O
other Seolal                 1.6       a         2        2         2
Sub-Totel Socloil Inf.      18.7                17        18       20
TII                         78.9       pl      lu        lu
US$ eillIon                 627
Peresiatl project. end
priva. comributlonô 9.9



- 42 -
M?ItEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. SUUMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(As of December 30. 198"
AMON LESS
LOAN                                                             CANCELLATIONS   UNDIS-   CLOSING
CREDIT     YEAR    BORROWER                   PROJECT NAUE       (US8 MILLIONS)  BURS D DATE
1 LDAN AND 17 CREITS CLOSED                                          118.24
aREDITS
C10480   1980    QOVERNMENT/MUNICIPALITY  UMAN I                    16.00         .88    12/31/87
Cite"    1981    QOVERNUENT OF BURUNDI    KIRIMIRO R/O              19.88        1.61    06/80/88
C11920   1982    bURUNDI                    INT. R/D NOOZI III      16.00        6.78    08/81/88
C185    19"8      REPUBUC OF BURUNDI        EDUC. III               lS.80         .67   0O/80/88
C146U0    19"4    GOVERNMENT OF 8URUNDI    THIRD TAS CREDIT          5.10        8.11    08/31/88
C0sUsO    1985    MINISTRY OF PW/DCR        HHYS. IV                18.10       15.12    06/80/89
C169M0   1986    008/RECIDESO               TRANS à DISTR.SYSTM.    12.80        9.86    12/81/89
C16200    1m      GOVT OF BURUNDI           FORESTRY Il             12.80        9.40    09/8/091
C16250   1986    GOVERNUENT                 WATER SUPPL.II           9.60        8.94    12/81/91
C17060    1986    GOVERNUENT OF BURUNDI    SAC                      16.90         .O1    06/80/88
C17960   1987    BUUmNDI                    ECO.MoT./PUM.ENTR.       7.60        7.50     12/81/92
C180     1987    GOV'T/ONATEL               TELECOM Il               4.80        4.80    12/81/98
C18570   1988    COVERNMENT OF 8URUN        ACRIC.MUYINCA           10.00       10.00
C18820    1988    GOVERNUENT OF BURUNDO    HEALTH/POP.I             14.58       14.68    06/80/98
TOTAL NUNDER CREDITS a 14                                            176.78       89.40
TOTAL  (NET APPRNOED)                                      288.97
OF UH!CH HAS BEEN REPAID TO THE BASM  (AMOR.A INTEREST)     10.85
'OTAL NOM OUTSTANDING                                       278.11
TOTAL UwiozsoUso                                                       89.40
8. STATUENT OF IFC INVESTUENTS IN BURUNDI EXPRESSED IN US.
(D-comber 81, 1987)
1981      Verreries du Burundl      lous conttlner      4.7      0.8    6.6
Toel1 gros commtnt  les cansellton,
terinstIons, repaymnws snd sales              4.7      0.8    6.2
Totel comitmarnit nos h.ld by !FC            0.08     1.08     1.1
The IFC loun w*o fully dlsburs.d and ell but USt80,M0 ropald.
n 1986, IFC capltae lzod UJS260 MO intorost for 1988.
1/ Extonded la 1957 to the Belgian Trust T.rrltory of Ruanda-Urundl for the laproveost of the
8wjuaburs-Murssvy. road end the expanslon of the lake port of Bujumbura. The lon, which vss
guarenteed by th. Klngdom of Beiglum, ha. been fully repald.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
.BURUNDI
SECOOD STRUCUAL  AJUrr CEIT
SUPPLE ENIT PROJECT DATA SHE$T
SECTION Il TINETABLE OF REY IVENTS
(a)    Identifications                     July 1987
(b)    Preparation Missiont                OctoberlNov.mber 1987
(c)    Appraisal Nessiont                  January/February 1988
(d)    Complotion of Negotiationas        April 26, 1988
(e)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:      July 1988
SE TON Il  SCIAL IDA _NACTION
None.
SECTION III. CONDITIONS OF ?Fw*CTliPmm
(a)   Agrement on the definitive PIP for 1988-89, including reserve
projectas
(b)   Agreement on calendar for progressive elim4nation of CADEBU's
monopoly on compulsory savinga;
(c)   Promulgation of the decree liquidating SOGESA;
(d)   Submission of the revised labor legialation for approval of the
National Labor Council; and
(e)  Adoption of internal procedures for the Guarantee Fund.
SECTION IV: CONDITIONS OF DISEDESENIN OF THB SECOND TRANCHE
(a)   Agreement on macroeconomic framework £ncluding fiscal deficit,
1989-91 PEP, and 1989 transitioual unified budget;
(b) Implementation of third phase of tariff reform, mncluding revision
of nomenclaturel
(c)   Signature of performance contracte with VERRUNDI and REGIDESO;
agreement on timetable for liberalization of amports competing
with VERRUNDI production; and agrmeemnt on,action program for
SOSUNO during 1989.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Agreement of coffee pricing structure for 1989/90 season;
(e)   Liberalization of rice marketing and allowing RDC Imbo to fix
paddy producer prices for 1989/90 campaign;
(f)   Reduction of rediscount rates from 3 to 2 and $mplementation of
all other measures included in the second and third stages of
credit reform;
(g)  Agreement on action plan for poverty alleviation; and
(h)  Agreement on action plan to reinforce the Ministry of Labor and
its agencies in charge of employment promotion.
SCTION Vs CONDITiONS OF DISBURSEHENT OF THE TEIRD TRANCHE
(a)  Agreement on macroeconomic framework for 1990-92, including fiscal
deficit, and 1990 transitional unif$ed budget;
(b)   Satisfactory fmplementation of action plan for SOSUMO (para. 64);
(c)  Completion of first phase of elim$nation of CADEBU's monopoly on
compulsory savings (para. 51);
(d)  Agreement on action plan for improving civil service efficiency;
(e)  Agreement on action plan for privatisation/liquidation of the
public enterprise sector on the basis of studies to be carried out
during 1988/1989; and
(f)  Launching second phase of labor market liberalization and
extending it to the parastatal sector.



* uot ~~~~~~~~~~~~- Il 
BAPOZ - 8R1M Ml L AR00           AHU   (MA. ZI>
POUCY  Af                           ACXS»  TD UV                              ACNfS TO OS TAM<                                        RE. P .
oEcrxvm                              oevabo                                    e oOVE r  iT TDuETMM                                             PUQmmima.ltr             Famr
1IOEWOuXC NA             T _ T          ement en macroéconomie            Propare md Sure en r,n reroolic fraaWk
fru..@rk for 019190 lacludiq          lancluding overail budgterg defilits
exchâge rat adJuste_bt WOP and          - fer 190191.                                Decoembr 19B
Pubic fin nce obJectives.                                                            (2<d trndche sel..)
- fo,r 1990-9                                eoseer lm 0
<Ord bra,crleme
imcrme./mlntran                    Adoption of a fl«;ble exchane.        Additlol exnohng  rat. adj_nt.mmmo *               riag program p.riod.   D4U/IZ   progra  enviges         8B
cm petitilen.e of Dururd la          rate. Cuueabi*o adJ_ut..mh of 283    nneded talng lto accouna comWelttiv.ee.                                  th rani effective egchxm_.
exporte, elîminat. bixe apir.t       ln foreian currency ter_             of lurundl'a exporte end levol of net                                     rat. to b. aiat.in.d
trudd gooda, m     v  tbrucurai    blfren  July t900 und rch  907.    rerv.
iqprovmnt tb IuIp                   107 edju_rgt la fib. Se.
1.2 Ptruetary policli.
Réview financlal  ptima end firet    Llberallration of lotere. rat.n end polTi       Ourine proera              DF/I0  agr.ed on tIn
la... relt.d to sis. rf            messurse  lqium.mt.d la th.           refore  (s., actiom  la para. 7 of Mtrrs)                                package dxcr;bed in para.7
budget dfcit. credit allocatkion,   ontent f cpx  rdlt  Y8S).                                                                                       of Policy mateni.
efflcic1 otf Me credit epet..
1.8 aiedotar, polaici
Ovarall publie epdino ehuld         Tex umer: ratorn rf Mh                Renue  smeur..:
b. adjut.d to remource              traa.ction ton (Oct. en.;          - Enolrge bault 0f th. tromctian to M ud           Ney lm                  - stabillltioa 0f Oov't           1238
aval tlaIties mnd a.diuateras       roduction of Import duty ex_ep-       locr. exclo to en buer end eoft drinkc.                                   r«current «pmnditur. ln
fîmmacial equaiiltbru.              tion. end rfer of lgpoert t riff  - Strenaghe  aniterin mnd Coentrol 0f cube    June 1900                       1900 te Fdu 21 billIon mnd
Priorluix. "hoid b. d0fined ;n      etructur  ( uly 0t/_jm ry 08).        duty ex_"pt;re mnd laporn  vluatio eyetoa;                                payamt of *rr ea;
the cnteat of rainforcd                                                   extend  tat eti;cel tex of 4% cn a*  1 op".- Capital expenditureu n d net
thr..-y  r pa.                                                         - Study to *iaplity the Income tas xy t*.          End 1908                  badind  to abee4 Feu 1t
-  Streng4hen cuctas adinlebmtlca to rduce        Ourîno progra,             bill;on ln 198.
fr»ud end lpsov. colectlion 0f tan revnue.                              -  noual révie of PEP lith th.
eank
Control Md ratlonalistlon 0f         Incrama participatica 0f publie   -  Further Incr. priolepation b, publlc           Ourlng progrua          - Cov't defictt Coxcl. grant.)      12
*xpenditurex                      enterpriem  la thein d.bt *ervl-       nterpri.é. in thelr dét ae rvicln                                        to b. li-It.d to 9.7% Of OP
cino la 1987. Ellainlon of           a lel-nte arréera en domeetia payanmt  and                                in 10, 08.1 i a 109 end M1
arroxrs la DOc. 1900. EJlinatiomn    avold me arrenr. adjetb global exponditure                                ln 1991.
0f trnferx te o  puble  mnter-       to revemue Wh»rtfli..bu
pris. of a commrcial chracter. -  Imtroduce oeelo4ive re,euit..at oyrt» for          Jxnmury 19ê9                                                41
civil *rvlc  end rationalise toh ciilv
sbergice
- Propoe   u  budur bd en the relevamn            Start;e vith 1989                                           40
annua trach"  f oth. pI.                       budget                                     `i1
2. 1PACI A   DU0IU_ L   PPO Cf
2.1 Zaport Ltlberall»ton
Autombict lopent lcenc  for ell  -  Zmr.. *h  cab o1gt bel lshich conelal            April 1l90                                                  ;0
R_mo  dietontiom. c d by            produc". escept eglu., teuti lm       b       t areell.ebd to grmi automabic
quantItatIve tuport reatriot-       nmd pher_aceubtola, sud a f.          llc<en.. fro  Md 1 million to  M  10 M



m.WWI - s       _8CT~  |w    0 oa    (BAI 12>                                                        _
POLiC   A  m                         Actii  IQ8 Sv                            ACMN  TO   BE TAllei                                                                         PiM.
WTeBE                                 OOlM                                     av aaYR  TDmAo/RmJIr   1oRW
lo; loprove o_omptlon  _mom        luxury Itées <Auguel 1908.
do     eti prodwoore, ad             Pira  re wp of me.rictlto    n       SE  iaI. eMin$n  loporl rne.tleli,s :
loportoe; mllmi-ta Me                ImpOrte of IUxmfzy maell mted       - om tiporta of lIu.ry good                     April 10 80
an61--xport hia.                     la ianurry 19810                     - .on lmorta efpling with production of         Sefote end-1990           Th. S      laMie d   Pbil
Period of il1moa.é valdablon hae       CNAMI, VERR IS, CO J aithin 1h                                          Eit.rpriae  Management
acr.a.ed frm 4 t. 8 monthe;           fr_mmerk orh    btlha ilt tate.n of those anterprlee.                   Projeé  auporta tMe
tise r.qutird ta validat.                Aurebnt on Itberoll»tten clondar;                                     dmgotae_tc     rMd.r. progres
Iten... ga  reducd t. 10-15                    OE4                                 Und-191,
day. (Jery 1908)                                 COTE8U                              iarch 199
R'Id-19l
2.2 Price Iiberaixalto                                                                                                      d  tranMe  rele>e)
Av.id dimtortioa la tnhe price       tibera lltaon of prtec  df el    - Ravie and *dJust mater end *lectrlelty           190-1989
.tructuare. and  liow, enterprite,    producte *xecpt atihtI .lratlc      triffe *t. .tr.nptben  PE 01l financil
te   lIlth lofnaelmi                 producte, for mhich price            positloo) and petroleue produce  priec. vu
.quuilbrum.                          colitnge can b. t_..d  in  e         n oeded.
of mcute (ortel   (for a _am
0f 4  m*h); patroi.m mmd          - Libarm lt  price. of certain aero-eimutriml   iurlog propgrm               Progro. to be prepered ondor
cooont; nmd expert cropa l July      prodt <rice, wbat, palol, agor) la bAL Il bsod en werlc cmrried
1900. AdjoatammI of tariffo fer      tbe ocotext of be. proger  to b. prepered                                 eut by ov't "nder tb.
water mmd ectrllty (Frb 8 B) for ccnc.rned eoterpriic.                                                           edmmie  m Pi htmnt
2.8 Tariff rfoere
Reduce progremeivly the              Coenoldetlon of ftcml sud t p-       Splmt third phei of tmriff r0form,              ioem  r 190               In the centont of ES t. b.        se
averag h bigl levêt of lOriff        art duOle.  nd tmriff rf..           b         odn otody Dt  elOrify  nmmeltuare     (ld treo rnlw eI>)        crri  o   by 1I
protection.  are. Me rag. of         itér of dm    rdd   froe e7          b        final wd lotnmdte gtnt. t,O
teriffe, hoeogtoise pretctien        tg a. Rangl of dm1.. fixn" et        loto accouait   tortff, end r.vi  lvOI of
amonq .1e.4.                          8-M501, _Opt fer luxurg qde"        tarIffo ent raédiaté gond  ah le
1M0> <duiy %819). 2 ,d ph- of        mintainiac flcal rvemmu  (lnd,y te be
htriff reférma rang rodue.d          eomp.t.d la Sêpt. OS)
to bdtwan 481 for mnufaetur"d
produc  end uat for otemradi-
mIe goude. Cpitml mnd eOelntial
eood, remIb et Un. (iJa. W)
2.4 rExporb Promtien
Support te podnttel ed               VL S refétr inelud ia             - MPromaig.t  décret on expert priomon,            Apri I 1 
e.lbiied enOerpre.. to               deprecltnoen, i4port                  latrdmlng ai*plified duty drambace,
exp*a_  oai  toerd n ihberi"         liberllaleon. Prim                   préférentiel profilb taxe for exporter,t
centri. end prepare the bai-         d.relnatite, re.activeteon of        *llowei t  urkting «pomm  te b. deductibl.
for long-tom plan f4r expert-        droabm-tc  _oal, elimtnOteon of      treo txd profite; end *hptitfyitn
orient.d induétri*e bm.d on .he      taxe. n no om-tditional exporte.    o-tgroalon procedure for Indusetriel le" t.
ceuparaive advo    d  ir             Agreeont. *th COL and Z             viti foe  tnrieo.                                                                                                 0C
ceantriea have bieo pru.ed bp
na CGv'1.                         - Set up ifftce of Standrdo mnd Nmmurn              O.eber 190                                                87   0
- Çomplote atudy to  dentify Burundi'$             Omceeber 10                                                87
lontro  recmaeure md mrket potetJat, end
viable expdet metivitie..



81.RR@I - nSTREUcTL S S) PR_O_M  (ML I>
POLCV ^MA AM                         ACTI0  TMO< av                            AcrzUB  TO OS TANm                                                        ATI               PAU.
oooe rzv                                   w ooVoe                              eV COVE.«M                             TDMrA                     omymo JEcr              REPW
*.8 rawsisubment    ilv.
Itro. ai acces. df _11 isu    . Ispls.mulsiuof d   .I_t                 -  loer  gêea poti dao progrsa                    Agi-I  190
.sdlum entorpris te butlto           Iuvo..aulb Code mud                   objectilva. end most r«  0 lcres.. prive"
ormtit ln eider i. attilusl          r-scilvulbon of Mh  osrsui.           oector oofdeuc.
tailr c@ùilb oo te Production        Pud <Jl, IWO.                         DspIeMt lu811) p-*o1Mraeso 1o re               JMu  100  (Efforiv        Ousr in u1   contemn o  1o h
end  exporte.                     .lre.. cm limite en oulerd               efficlent eue et Me Fond.                                                BWAPt  roject.
forelgu  r.esisuc».                - Il-l1.     1auir  d.etc  rqulred froe           Jue l9                                                       86
Qy 1906, Jau  1907                   foralgu lporter* sh. t1ha have luvim_d ln
Libemsll»bso otf th profoulcu        productl. aoe1erbet Soso   é 2W  M.
ef Iporter (July 81).             - R_m raa oupuléory dealtl                                                                                     M8
AnAm oure                             juré lml
- Auuo»    asls_*0X  e,ena                    B}nn J. u19
a. ru.c  UoemlT
lrova afficluq  of publie            Prsrsilou of 8 pasr POP for        - Fui i agreesu oC  19800-  PSP, utcludlas        JU. 1                     hul apport provlded by             44
«sponditur;s lcr_ase                19069 sud Ideuiifloilca  do rofareo    projeci.                                       tef« 'ivoues)            T«huitls Amaisbucs ZII  sud
rlualoq h.tie.u  spitl Msd           coj pr srm taklug luts écoeuxi                                                                                 Ige-alî sud PE _euso§Mt
rocurronu  expeudiuréeo;  ur         avallable roeurc_a sud flacl      -  Aare ou motlo. pléun t airXouas  UXIUR. luiU         19"0                                                   41
ltptu.a.ieun ef hlsh prioritp       policy obJltiv.(BSt. lm/
lIveelam_ projacta                  Isppt. 19>. Pirii guldea sud  - Aree enu acIetn plan t eiruuêai. NRllF               D«coaar 190 40                                              d
paisasiai 10 h. meod lu Project      sud cors aIlablrl».e.
IvtirlIn (ly 1906.
41
Publ le Exponditure Progir           FlraO re    p ore  d lu In         - Lauuch prepaisen  f poublie ola   dwr.e   U      W   90
19     RepoRrt on ued for            progsa fer t10-«.
rs.ructurin  sud elrnaiouln                                                                                   lUih Frnch Amuolsoce               40
of plantnIng aeo  <JM. 19>        - Cospte sud sorne u lai    on PEP for             Duce.r 19S8
190-4  sud tialtloeul utfled budesi for        <,d tranche roi....)
199 lbsd ou ascor Fit < .doaatine.
héit1h, sriulture. tIr_pore).
- Prpratien of PEP for 1989-1 sud                 Ocdobr 190O
unf lad budgi   for 19.                         Crd tranea ries.)
ln coîllsorstion sIla  100P       41
-cospiet TA aurvep.                              Daccéour 190              Viai sasieleue fr  theai          41
- Ais oun mlles progisa te iqrse clvil           Octle, 190                Ctuadln Oov't.
aorvlca efflaieocy.                           (8rd tIrah  raes) 0.
48
- Refera of budoV/pore utao abéa; adopt           Rsofr ."-19O
double emr public r_o e   iue _ala  Md
o»i.a of dflug priorlîl.; Into lote
budgo by  rlorîlît.                                                                                                   CD
4. p. .4 itRlM
Rhai O letllen of th asclor          Créstion of Me a*rvic. lu charge    Riunforce SI   Mud tupila surl  progrua                                    Proos Il"id su  _uppor.d
eud lpiovîne  _slOé  d              of public eulrprt_a  tUC>.           tratntnp pr_rs.                                                           clth ocola sud Pub lIe
fo limp       performnce             (i    1906                                           -                                                                     ProjecJ



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~1
.0010  - stm=JCYWM.        PM08D   (S& 17)
POLUC  DA  10 PO Cr    TIINf 1<                          BiS Tl  W. TIm                                              IaTW                                        PAU.
0I04T1                              ohu,m                                   Y OvVoeNe#                          TIIErAMBLE               QOaeaymaoEr            REIW
Ltgl Fraework                      Daft de.  <J-y 1t900             - Adopilon ot d . on PeE legl frm.r.k.          S*pieor 190m 
LUquldatic                         Clomre of fou.- unirpri_e        - Firl  deta te lIquidat. Pli mlredly cloedt                                                              tS
(Aus. 19>                            SUPJ. S l (diolitimn en »Wdoi.>  1by 190 
A.: daafl de..                           ètm l9
:rlgaitof liqwrdalicin de.1.  d  cr l0
(C.db  ttff«Ulnom)
Fir  Ph.  tf Rt liitaeiin:t        Rh Ilitatil  Pros.  for          - Sinture  f perform_n cn ira,t
omuoe <oai W) * CAu. O87)           OmJ                                          Aune o  19
(N"h  a0), UNAA%, 'PS. M0c,    cWu, O1AB                                         sepiber 19m
0NDI  (Apr3l 1900.                  Ne   (6"100 pl-)                             D..o.. 19m
nomAW, 00C, oeN                               D...ér l90
W0051M                                        D.oeéer 190
<d  iruohe
8ecOnd PNOM of Reit tlfit.                                          - Copleito  et rhabititzi   proogrm  fort
#3ll#                                     .haS 190                                                  5
Hltieler de tUUM. e3t 0k plii, Md CltU    uw**e 1m
- Signature 0f performue. o   i.      _ry SON
(I.d tranhe
lt irr1   de N*MVA, Mi llt plai, Md COTJBU  ly 9
TMtrd Ph.. of ehallitai:           n. @o,rQmnt dec;dd to                N4VS,  l.. MoTKes
rehabllXiai. i.. e onelso   f inpdtt  - Nhhabllltnie, prooraa                    thrdc 19 
(tOL md SP) *  CTL              - Siefalure of perforter_ Ou.irao.               Sepier t190
(Iee_uomn1ca*tt) > ed thre
publ1o-ened hoiel.
Seotor Studit                                                       - Luncb ooc.or etudl. m bht- for pollcy tq      My 190
reorma  (n) pP%oet  triffe md thofnti*e
.jatfal e b) privotitlont; <c) ci   daSte
nd eont or1"e of t1cUnti *1o  b otg !
Stai. Md ptis.
- Complte"       .                              ibtr mmmI.  lm
Agreen pritvetiaitio  pror  beed on the    OiHr. 19B (lad tra1he            )
aboe atudine. . 
Ihna5roit Informten Speis          Pretleia ry Proj c       1nry   -            MA, ce i  o dfRnt*lve proj«tb      Aprl 18                                                             11
- Zupleent MIS                                 Decer 190                                                lt 0



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
Il             ,ili       liI                                 I'8     
| ~~~ ~ t  t                                                         s.    4 2X j ^ t â
',X!          I',il,,l'}li.i   il i.
I   I         .           . I                 .    .   .   .              ...I
1. 1           t                            J               -, 
'l      :l                                 -i *1 *     



AM IEV
bUAUOI - STnTI. IluEFDRlt       M   (11AL II)
POUCY AME »O                        ACYTIS TM<4 Obr                           ACU     W  B TAM                                                        RBATWD              PM.
0oecz                                ouaM                                      ey NTvu                                T»Orwm                    iWt/lor                RdflT
19LMI/Mo9 c_ampg  <bgiuno  in         itSb l IP/O camipa.
brch 1909)
Pali 0oi1                         OSV't »Or*de uitWra  a mew    - Compléet f_mibility y606 o  eatmuiei  ef              hOeobr 100
large lunvotmnt te poceu vole         aleioine pro,_ing pIeu.                                                                                    90
oei      to abide b  tMe rmlSt
ef te A*y .tion  exthnsionof
:  *altia proc.oeifts plau.
O. i..0l< POLICEM
Pr_oot * plome1 t création tS        In addition Se   aroeouoie        - Libali ams   em of recrutemet; prive"S                                                                       '9.
abIorb th   00,000 am  otrame nmSr _            «r  Al. I. ov't bos        fin. P t il be ei lood tea  réermit  èrumdimn
la tM. modrem aoorr tbrmug          *blo imAd tA. prouremlv. laber        labo. altAcu al  oerp oaml.taioo/
peol icey Meor.S. ton.u.laaad former mdinilraive                           ppmoat otf titiery of Lbobr. Ruvi..
rmtiction. on urben .ottl.ment       Plo_enmt Ccoitte.' fueotions md lam on
ei    iltf*rant trSe..               frealan lob.
Sbeit ravie"   l.eslistion eo Me           ..e lml 90                                                  70
Ntouil Lber Cupi I for oppreovl.           (Off tcvwoom)t
itr  e n seon  pt of librellistton          i>_mbr ton»                                                 ?0      
«tmdl" pr"r» te p&mM_tla                         tSranh    ie»)1
- Slg   *bo  eryiel  et Nimlut.r>  t ober
Labdu IWXOPrU preot to a*_i-t oe    l         u1e90                   ILo viill Ootiuie ian             71
Put in pinc prousa  le mpre date on         Oecber 198               ae_.tlnc.
intomt_I .ecto ascep*ts  b> tb. Niait,> 
of Tra        e md lndu.ry Und tlA L"obo    i .1c
*Stronuigl.u service. of LbrNimisIr,         ogeceér lm0
ré_pooible foe empplou   ptemolIon.           abd  Ir      roie lmI«)
-   othori. imourte of .oond-hoid tchaoleIo       Apil 190                                                    72
nm  mccompantid br parferaf... Outranbe.
certif tceS..
- Adopt rimd Ouj ro muniepal tex code             épril 1908                                                  72
le ramve mati-lw  bim.                                                                                             00
- Stody of htwm        l_mma«m  sp     for *ot                               _   en beItA fimnce Bed         n 72 
prîvat. _mploys.                                                         bgnei ftinnd br eil PM                     o
project.                                   Ni
cTtR _     dpt  br Onverment. haber unie,    Jupe 1m                                                              C
Uid Nxoitb lntoit>y.
Pr .itio o0f nt. *oten.                    Osceber lm9



jm   z - STIICIIL RMEDl tVM     <L SI)
PSICY  AM  AN                       ACTIB TF l TA    I                       ACTIOS  TO SE T14                                                     R5.ATO              PA".
~~~~oir                                         cv      Mr                                m   OIVE _   lf                       TStEAlLE                     RWW/FRD.            RlP«lR
7. IoErARf AN c T Poua.
poe  Me speot                       Inof  oe     I    t       r          Fi r  phases                                   Apri 1 lm                     n p_r      dtifid natd  70
*llocaion crdit nnd                 te pslitive levali (Me. l).          -      -                                                                 o bn  opported ln perîllel
eebilian of dlttl à»fc lno                                            - Elfi-fnate à  riori  eiherlabioen fr_s                                    bJ *- Uf4.an project.
Incrusta .f S peroc  ne  point.      IRI on Individuel cerdl. aov Flb tom.                                   Policy  _sre  nboe
it rate en 12 menthe  avina       - Allo, PtS to deposi their liqfiditie ln                                  _ppord by the 2nd-yer
dpsits nd roeviien of                thn st p0fitehl. feabion.                                               DIF SAF pregra.
Intersb rat. poltqy (July ts88)  - Firtt Isus of Tre        ôl-ry si la bg Mpblic
Rtieion of in"rm t raies la ine      auctimn (spon t *il filoecalo
1907.                                i.iliotblao>); seldar of  tua  tfor th.
2ad Qrtew 190.
- Dereglie fnteatb ratn, en
mn-rdifo_mtble Ise end elainai.
minimum interasi ratan on csh d st.
- Iplount conpleory remerves *>s%".
Second ph...:                                  Srptoer lm00                                              77
-  l_ue of Trauary alile eith progresela.
rate  'u  forau').
- Rrdu  ruer of rdisct  rates fra  7 to a.
- Redue nusber of _s*fim  inieret naie  on
rediacoottble ereditl froq 8 bo a.
- Eliinntst *11 oinimm Internat raie on
depel te *emopt for p   _eboo  depsitt.
- Rosal  us of sdiua-tera tiquidity ratio.
Third Phoas:                                   DOcesr 190                                                7B
- Rodue nuaber of rediacotmt raie. te 2
(forel Md prdeeentia  rais.).
- 'El tints estim    intere.1 rates on crdits
end 0f minimum ratne n degosite.
Fourth thnoos Liberatiaetin of  i# internat   Jwly 190
fltionel Quarantée. F,amd           Proceduré. mmd satuet  have baen    - AdoPt Procedure of #btional Qerantes Fund.   ion. 1900                 Zm paratIi  al  Ulth   WS.     710bti
proporsd in consualtation ailh MA                                                   (EFfsciv os>cradit.                                                   .
(1907)                                                                                                                                                    o c
Rai Site La (ce Ftentr)                                               - R.eise diaoition grating te Treeway             me lmi
preor claieu on colistsl propert. 



WfOuX - STlCflMAL au    mOoe4  (A I  )
POUCY  A  A                         ACTIXU TM4 S                              ACêION  TC 8E TM                                                                            PME.
DoeWJtXm                             oOv  b0f VSY oeTveee                                                             TDqETWU                     PR»OOà/PloJERT
6. SOCIAL AM  POVT  t M TION lROOe4                                    -  Jol;n tn cW-fmemed/Sak exocuted                 ApriI lm8                                                   81
projecetn cesocbl Dt_re Ince of
- Defie pogro  of »Il t.rgctl.d p@wrtW4            Ocdr l81m                Thaee eotionv t1  be
ail. evitm octioen  fcu_ed ce                 (ld  tr_nce rues..)       pr.p.rd in tne  contot of
(a) nutrition pregra. fer <hi Idren;                                     th  MA projeot. Aug.eaent
(b) mermt t         t »CM le developm.t1                                 ef Ooipei progrom  «il b.
(c) a.uppot toe _11l m*esi productive                                    _dn t. omluate viability tb
projectm; (d) feod ocuri t, *trott-,; and                                *xtnd th_ et ntioenai
te) ce.rdiattice of doenr. essitence la AMX                             -aml. Collerantien
prgus.                                                                   eanviongéd etuh tIHXF
1DS-tN projct. UO
- Prmere emeitriane tyste focuecd  en mcclol    Ourino prorue                                                 8
Md sacoua vmriable.
9. FOLLD~  ON WJWflW FPoawM
Crtmtien of rnite de mmlvi et    - Relnfore. Cenit de Suivi *ith pe.mxnnt            ApriH 19m                 Ssh  uPport t. b. preovded       ne1
sieaeteriat  level Md et             *ecrtetarit end prepere syetè_  of                                        thrcueh the gt goic Md PE
permamnnt *  rem*rist (ub. U            . nd dcetors. tonesgeet Project end cleO»
relation *itib Rtsidnt                       L
- CoèiInete clemily mth Résident Ntliese          Ourine progre.            Nteion.                                        I
_______   ___________  ____  ___ ___-- _--__- __- ---_____ _____ __ _~~~~~~~~~o
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0<



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
GOVERNMENT STATEMENT ON DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
1.       In 1986 the Government of Burundi launched an economic policy
program vith the dual objective of correcting economic and financial
disequilibria and of promoting a medium- and long-term restructuring of the
economy by stimulating productive sectors and private investment. The
first phase of this program (initiated in mid-1986), supported by a
Structural Adjuatment Credit (SAC I), resulted, inter alia, int a) a 23%
devaluation of the Burundi franc vith respect to the SDR (between July 1986
and March 1987) and a 9% devaluation in February 1988; b) a revised tariff
structure that reduced most of the excessively high protection accorded
domestic industries while equalizing protection across sectors of the
economy; c) a lifting of most price and import controls; d) a revised
Investment Code; and e) an increase in producer prices for coffee and tea.
In the context of a public enterprise (PE) reform program, four PEs vere
elosed down, and five others are being rehabilitated. Efforts have been
made to rationalise the public investment program and to begin preparation
of a three-year public expenditure program. In the fiscal area, the
structure of indirect taxation has improved and tax revenue collection
strengthened. A commission was established to manage the external public
debt and to ensure that external loans are contracted on hîghly
concessional terme.
2.       The Government of Burundi is committed to the pursuit of its
structural adjustment program (SAP) and has requested support from the Bank
and the IMF for the second phase. During this period (covering 1988-89)
the policy adjustments undertaken under SAC I vill be reinforced and new
economic measures vill be introduced.
3.       Implementation of the SAP outlined below should lead to average
reai annual GDP growth of about 5.0%. The new incentive structure should
boost private investment, alloving gross fixed capital formation to be
sustained at about 20% of GDP. The current account deficit of the balance
cf payments should be held at under 10% of GDP (corrected for exchange rate
adjustments) and foreign exchange reserves should increase to the
equivalent of approximately four maonths of importa. The overall budget
deficit should decline from 12.8% of GDP in 1987 to 5% in 1991. A detailed
timetable for the Government action program is appended.
A.       Trade and Industrial Policies
4.       Under the first phase of the adjustment program, the folloving
measures vere implementeds (a) the adoption of a flexible exchange rate
pollcy; (b) elimination of most import and price controls; (c) reform of
customs tariffs; (d) revision of the Investment Code; (e) increase in
producer prices of coffee and cotton; and (f) abolition of export taxes on
manufactured producte. These measures vill be strengthened during the
second phase of the SAP.
5.       The Government proposes to strengthen industrial incentives and to
promote efficient manufacturing for export. This requires reducing the



-54-
ANNEX V
Page 2
anti-export bigs and streog^ning the institutional framework. The
Goverrment undertakes to p.rsze the maintenance of a realistic and flexible
exchange rate, particular 7,'1wth,respect to neighboring trading partners.
The Government recently' &i tàd`legislation offering exportera of
manufactured products a s.mpnlfied drawback scheme (compensation for
customs duties paid on inpocted.raw materials), reducing the tax on profits
derived from exporte of taie+, ioducts and abolishing the export taxes
still in force.  The prio'   oeuâing cf exporte has been maintained but
becomes automatic.
6.       As part of tb,ge  rpt'e reform of trade and industrial
policies the following in          e being implemented:
a) The Governnent adj ouité'h.value cf the FBu with respect to the SDR
to correct the appre âtion.of the currency since March 1987.  In
February 1988, the 1     pas devalued by 10  in local currency terme
which more than comijskted:£or the appreciation that had occurred
oince March 1987. ¶h, change rate policy will continue to take into
accouant the trend in.,tfe real effective exchange rate, balance of
payments objectives,,.St  need to promote non-traditional exporte and
improvements in,ince 4 ve. to certain producers of export crops.
b) Restrictions on Imp4  r f,,luxury goode (which had been maintained
during the first phas     >4mport liberalization) have been abolished.
The value of licens    :sc,n be issued by commercial banks vithout
BRR authorisation i#    4 raised from FBu 1 million to 10 million and
the period of vl& 4            licenses has been extended from four to
eight montis. Rest          On tlree groupe of importe that compete
with locally manuf          coda (glass bottles, pharmaceuticals and
textiles) will be a1t    cd .by 1990, at the latest, as part of
recovery programs bé£ iprepared for VERRUNDI and ONAPHA and of the
action plan to be p>ep r,d for COTEBU.
c) Foreign Importers w ' i X Snvested at least FBu 20 million in a
productive sector              subject to a compulsory deposit.  The
other will coetinut  *e     eompulsory depositis which will earn
interest beginiàng ii.  1989.
d) Remaining price co        :  certain products (rice, wheat) will be
progressively aboliO e.
e) The second phase of'-tlé tariff reform which was implemented in January
1988 reduced the sp   axd3.n tariffs from 15-50% to 15-45% vith the
exception of luxuryj.g d'S that continue to be subject to a 100l
tariff.  The third ph4 . r % to be implemented in January 1989) has the
objective of incre4i is  idustrial production and lowering the average
tariff rate without     e    g the tariff spread.  It will be based on
recommendations of        ont harmonising the Burundian tariff
structure vith that           ? 4ther YTA member couatries, improving the trade
nomenclature to bett,    £ferentiate intermediate from final producte,
and assssing the a 8        .lowering current rates on intermediate
goode. The target                the t he     effective protection-rate
differential f rom b&   iI.68% and 773Z in 1985 to between 46% and
145S in 1990                   budget revenues.



- 55 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
7.       In the context of institutional reforme, the Government vill
strengthen the Chamber of Commerce and its capacity to dialogue with
relevant ministries and the private sector through the creation of an
export marketing unit.  A standards agency within the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce vill be established with the technical support of the
University of Burundi, to ensure that Burundi's exports conform to
international standards. The Government has taken steps to simplify the
travel procedures for exporters. A study of Burundi's medium-term
industrial and export potential which will serve as the basis for
prefeasibility studies and a program of investment promotion (domestic and
foreign) is also underway and vill be completed by end-1988.
B.   Public Finance
8.       An abrupt decline in coffee revenues increased the budget deficit
from 6.52 of GD? in 1986 to 12.8Z of GDP in 1987. ln the context of the
Policy Framework Paper for 1988-90 and of the second SAL, the Government is
committed to reducing the fiscal deficit to 9.7% of GDP in 1988, to 8.1% in
1989, and to 5.0S in 1991 by strengthening revenue collection, including
the phasing-out of custom duty exemptions, by improving the fiscal system
and by maintaining a prudent public expenditures policy, including the
rationalization of expenditure priorities.
9.       In 1988 the Government foresees an expenditure level of FBu 40.7
billion, comprising current expenditures of FBu 21.4,billion and capital
expenditures (including on-lending) of FBu 19.3 billion.  About 80% of the
investment program vill be financed by external ai4 nd the remainder by
domestic financing.  For the period 1988-90 th;iiGo4ernment has decided to
maintain an annual global level of public expen ture of FBu 43 billion and
capital expenditures (including on-lending to public enterprises) of FBu 20
billion which is compatible vith the objectives of its macroeconomic and
financial program. Priority has been assigned to agriculture, which
accounta for about 402 of total investment expenditure.  The share of
transportation investment is expected to decline in view of substantial
past efforts to build a road network which meets foreseeable requirements.
Resources vill therefore be concentrated on the construction of secondary
and feeder roads and the maintenance of existing infrastructure.
10.      The ability to strengthen public finance performance is, however,
subject to a number of constraints. On the revenue side, current sfforts
to improve tax and customs revenues is limited owing largely to the limited
monetization of the economy. Fiscal pressure is slready very high on the
monetized economy (about 302 of modern sector GDP), which limits further
increases in tax levels. Budgetary revenues are alseo very sensitive to
variations in the international price of coffee. There are, however,
possibilities to strengthen tax collection and these possibilities will be
exploited in the short-term.
11.      On the expenditure side, savings vill most likely be realized as
subsidies to parastatals are reduced, expenditure controls are tightened
and as certain programa which are not consistent vith the Government's
adjustment program are reoriented.  Nevertheless, the flexibility to
operate large adjustments in the level and structure of Government



- 56 -
ANN  V
Page 4
expenditures will remain limited in the short run, given the importance of
non-compressible expenditures (e.g., central administration, security and
defense and debt service) and the need to ensure the financing of recurrent
costs associated with public investments which are currently underfinanced.
12.      The public debt service represents about 30S of the publie
resources and constitutes the most important constraint to an adjustment in
the level and structure of public expenditures. The Government maintains
îts coummitment to borrov from external sources only on highly concessional
terme. It has also initiated a program to reinforce its external debt
management with support from UNCTAD and is exploring the possibility of
reducing its external debt burden, notably by means of an eventual debt
forgiveness, for which it requests the support of the World Bank.
Proxram of Reform and Improved Expenditure Manazement
13.      The reform program under the SAL I1 includes the following
componentss
a)  Implementation of a Three-year Public Expenditure Program
(PEP) for 1989-91 and a transitional unified budget for 1989;
b) improving the three-year rolling public investment program
(PIP);
c)  launchintg a comprehensive budget reform;
d) strengthening institutions responsible for managing the public
sector's project cycle and for managing public finances; and
e)  implementing an action program to reinforce the efficiency of
the civil service and of technical assistance.
14.      In order to improve the public expenditure management, the
Government will adopt a threo-year Public Expenditures Programming procesa
(PEP). The objectives of such a system are tos (a) provide a clear view of
the objectives of proposed government actions and their relative
priorittes; (b) prevent priority programs from being umderfinanced ehile
eliminsting lesser-priority expenditures; (c) enable resource allocation
decisions to be made in ligit of their opportunity costs; and Id) allow
decision-makers to take into account resource allocation decisions taken in
earlier years and the impact of resource allocation decisions for public
finances in future years.
15.      In 1988, a first PEP (1989-91) will be prepared in the context of
the 1989 budget preparation. The PEP will include goverrment recurrent
expenditures (including the domestic and foreign debt service, public
subsidies and general expenditures which cannot be allocated between
sectors), detailed PEPs <including recurrent costs associated with
Lnvestment projects) for the agriculture, education, health and transport
sectors and PEP outlines for the remaining sectors. The 1989-91 PIP vill
be integrated into the PEP for the same period. Sectoral financial limite
vill be establised to orient the preparation of sectoral PEPs.



- 57 -
ANNEX V
Page 5
The sectoral PEPs vill identify the financing needs to cover the recurrent
coste associated vith projects in the PIP, whenever the necessary
"nformation te available or can be collected, even if their financing is
not secured. The PEP vill be r.fined during the following years lu order
to allow the Goverument to have a truly analytical tool to support its
decision making on public expenditure priorities. An agreement vîth the
World Bank vill be reached on the content of the 1989-91 PEP and on the
unified budget for 1989, as a condition of second tranche release.
16.      The Three-Year Rollina Public Investment Progra .  The preliminary
PIP for 1988-90 vas reviewed vith the World Bank. The definitive PIP vill
be submitted for the Bank's review and approval prior to credit
effectivenees.  Meanwhile, the Government is committed to excluding from
the 1988 PIP all nev projects which would lead to a level of capital
expenditures in excess of the level provided for in the 1988 financial
progrum (FBu 19.3 billion for the projects included in the central
goveroment budget, and a maximum of FBu 25 billion for the PIP as a whole).
For the 1989-90 PIP, the financial envelope is fixed at an average of FBU
26 billion, wiich corresponde to the objectives of the Government9s
financial program during this period.
17.      As for specific projects on which the Bank had some concerna, the
Government vills (a) postpone the $mplementation of the Central Market of
Bujumbura and exclude it from the 1988-90 PIP; (b) reduce the dimension of
the sport stadium project by eliminating the proposed olympic mvimming pool
and hotel; and (c) invest in the extension of the oil palm processing plant
if the technical and economic study demonatrates its economic
justification.
18.      The preparation of the PIP for 1989-91 vill take place Ln the
context of the preparation of the eEP for 1989-91.  The content of the PIP
vili be rationalized and vill includes (a) a core program, consisting of
high-priority on-going projecte for which financing Ls assured and of nev
projecte of demonatrated social and economic viability vhich can be
Luplemented during that period; and (b) a reserve program (vIhich La not
Lncluded in the core PIP) consisting of projecte of lesser priority which
could be Ïzplemented vithin the global financial envelope vithout diverting
finaucial resources from the core program.  Finally, a monitoring system
vill be established to permit the follow-up of the PIP project-by-project.
19.      The introduction of nev projecta in the PIP vill satisfy the
following criterias (a) for directly productive investments and economic
infrastructure, an internal rate of return of at least 10; and (b) for
social projects, cost-efficiency criteria.
20.      Budret Reform.  The objective is to introduce a management tool
for the public expenditure program in 1989 and to evolve tovards a unified
budget vhich would be introduced in 1991 and vhose contents vill be
consistent vith the THF's presentation of government operations. In this
context, a transitional unified budget vill be prepared in 1989 and 1990
and vill includes



-58 -
ANNEX V
Page 6
(a) the 'Budget Ordinaire" (BO) and the 'Budget Extraordinaire
d'Investissement' (BEI), as provided for under existing budget law; and
(b) a 'Budget Annexe' (not included in the existing budget law) but which
vill include those PEP resources and expenditures not contained in the BO
and the BEI and for which monitoring vill be done ex »ost. The reform of
the budget system vill include changes in the procedures concerning
preparation, monitoring and control of the budget as vell as of the public
accounting system. An action program vill be defined by the Government
with the assistance of the French Ministry of Finance and vill be agreed
vith the World Bank before the release of the second tranche of SAL II. At
that time, the details and calendar of the action program vill be
finalized.
21.      Institutional StrengtheninR.  A program designed to strengthen the
agencies responsible for the preparation, budgetization, programming and
monitoring of the public expenditure program vill be launched in the
context of the SAC II vith thi support of the Third Technical Assistance
Project and the Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project financed
by IDA. To this end, the Government vill prepare an action plan a$med at,
in the first instance, reinforcing the Ministry of Plan.
22.      As part of the SAL II public expenditure component, the Government
vill maintain the level of the civil servants in lin. with available
resources. With the objective of improving the efficiency of human
resources in the public sector, the Government vill launch, in the context
of the SAL II, preparatory vork to reinforce the planning and programming
of its human resources, including technical assistance, permitting,
therofore the establishment cf its employment policy on a new basis.
C.  The Public Enterprises
23.      Burundies 57 public enterprises (PEs), most of which date from the
seventies, vere set up to carry out a range of tasks: provide public
services, remedy the lack of private investment (which caused the public
sector to expand), and coordinate the various sectors of the economy.
These PEs currently "s.içe a significant role in the economy, particularly
in the modern sector; they employ approximately 10,000-people and_generate
approximately 5 percent of the country's GDP. However, as a result of the
small size of the domestie market and distortions in the incentiSe
structure, together vith the lack of experience in commercial management,
certain enterprises face severe difficulties.
24.      The Government's objectives and strategy in the PE sector remain
basically the same as for the first phase of the adjustment program. A
program of public enterprise restructuring and revitalization is being
implemented in accordance vith the folloving general principless
(a) Cost-effective participation by the Government in those sectors that
require public investment (e.g., involving nev activities or public
services that cannot be provided by the private sector);
(b) Maxfmrzation of value added to the national economy. Public
enterprises will be financially and economically viable, vith each
required to cover, from its own resources, all operating expenses



ANNE V
-                      Page 7
and at least part of investment exp'nd  ie.é  These enterprises vill
be subject to the same fiscal legislàtit     private enterprises.
(c) The PE sector must generate profits foi- thé tovernment commensurate
vith ite investments. Coimercial or ipdustrïal operations of PEs
vill not be subsidized.  The Goverrmet 4           nue ite policy of
more equal incentives for the publie aad'tr$4ate sectors.
25.      Public enterprise pricing vill, wvhe,ve?,be sble, reflect actual
costs or be determined by market forces.  I' hertaytn public services are
provided below cost, then offsetting measuret viXi b. taken in the
performance contract or necessary funds il$ âo c luded in the
Government 's current budget.                  'u,
26.      To assist vith PE restructuring tke           t-establishQd in 1987
a 'Service Chargé des Entreprises Publiques -r(S:EP1'IÉeh. SCEP vill assure
that the PE sector is being restructured throgh j  vatization of
activities of interest to private invest rsfat4  fquLdation of those
activities that are neither of strategic             !to the Government nor
potentially profitable in the mnedium term.  ,Tho.è,public enterprises that
are deemed essential vill be rehabilitated o  e **is of diagnostic
studies which vill culminate in the negatiat$,è f performance contracte
vith the Government.  The legal charters of PEs<*Ù be revised to provide
greater management autonomy to these enterprise!..
27.      New PE6 vill be created oanly provide.d t;h" clear public interest
can be established that the activity is not attracÏve. to private
investors, and that a reasonable rate of return e'an'be assured over the
medium-term. Government loan guarantees vill be.'ipited to PE investments
of demonstrable public utility and economic vi.b4L4y and in cases where a
performance contract le in effect.
28.      The Government vill restructure selectbd enterprises according to
their specific needs to ensure financial via i     over the medium-term.
The Government vill proceed, where appropri           the cancellation of
reciprocal debts between itself and the                  among public
29.      Stren thenino PE manatement.  The ,i3ht has established a
'Fonds d'Intervention" to help  finance theW' ^ 4litation of selected
public enterprises.  This Fund is supplied by. oedt rpart funde generated
under the IDA-financed structural adjusttment c'rèdit.  Disbursements are to
be made based on performance contracte prepare4:4b, each eligible
enterprise. The Fund may be used to finance reb#bilitation investments,
purchases of spare parts or raw materials, staff training or re-training,
technical assistance, and the replenishnment'df Ï'or>cing capital.  The Fund
vill provide equity capital or loans.
30.      The respective roles of supervisorymiii;ies, managing
directors, boards of directors and management commL tees for each
enterprise are to be reviewed, in order tos  (iW aiaid any overlapping or
conflict of authority; (ii) decentralize decision-îàking powers to the
greatest possible extent, and (iii) give managers mkx1mum responsibility.
s  *        rpl. J



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Page 8
The nev legal framework, which allows for changes in salary policies,
hiring and firing practices, while complying with the current Labor Lave,
vill be implemented in 1988. Several sector atudies, concerning tariffs,
incentives, privatization and financial flows vill be completed before the
end of 1988.
31.      A Management Information System (MIS) is being established to
collect data on PE production, personnel, sales, inventories and finances.
The system, which vill be refined and in place by end-1988, vill reinforce
senior management's capacity to analyze their firms' performance. Periodic
performance charte vill be prepared to monitor the impact of the sector on
public finances and on auch key economic indicators as the balance of
payments and the stock of domestic and external debt.
32.      Specific measures for individual enterprises.  SCEP is carrying
out detailed studies on enterprises to determine the types of reforma
required. A second phase vill cover finalization of the reform program and
preparation of an action plan.
33.      A number of measures have already taken place or are currently
underways
(a) The laboratory component of LAPHAVET (Laboratoire Pharmaceutique et
Vétérinaire) has been incorporated as part of the central
government and a decision has been made to subsidise ONT (Office
National du Tourisme) and CPI (Centre de Promotion Industrielle) in
viev of their social and economic importance.
(b)  Four loss-making enterprises of lesser priority -- AGRIBAL
<agricultural development), SUPOBU (fisheries), SOMEBU (studies),
SOBECOV (storage and marketing of agricultural products) -- have
been closed down, and committees have been established to oversee
their legal dissolution. The Government has also decided to
liquidate SOGESA (which administers ex-SOBECOV's capital) before
the release of the second tranche of SAL II, and its capital vill
be absorbed by the Central Gvvernment.
(c) Reform programs will be implemented for the folloving five
enterprises as follova:
- CADEBU: This enterprise has benefited in the past from its monopoly
on compulaory-savings deposita. In the context of the liberalization
of the financial sector, the Goverument vill abolish progressively
CADEBU's monopoly on compulsory savings according to the performance
contract to be initiated in September 1988. Given CADEBU's difficult
financial situation, the Goverrment has decided as part of the
company's performance contract to limit its medium- and long-term
activities and to place CADEBU under the BRB's supervision in line
vith a apecial set of regulations to be prepared during 1989.
- ONAPHA's cost structure precludes it from competing successfully vith
imported products even if its plant vere modernized. In view of the
need to supply the Burundian population vith low cost
pharmaceuticals, the Goverument has decided to abolish administrative



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 9
restrictions and to seek private sector participation to rehabilitate
ONAPHA. The Government vill provide no further subsidies or loan
guarantees to the enterprise. Liquidation vill be envisaged, if
planned investments are not financially and economically justified,
or if private participation does not materialize. ONAPHA's
laboratory vill be incorporated ln the Central Government.
- OTRABU:  With improvements in management, a restructuring of its
vehicle fleet and the adoption of a marketing policy geared to
lucrative markets, OTRABU could become profitable in the short term.
The rehabilitation program to be initiated before end-December 1988
vill eliminate subsidies and vill involve partial privatization
(i.e., conversion from an EPIC (Public Enterprise) to a SEN,
(Enterprise of Mixed Economy). The privatization study for the PE
sector which vill be completed before end-December 1988 vill
specifically examine OTRABU's case.
- OTRACO:  Issues are:  the veakness of its internal management and
efficiency, and its dual role as a public service and a commercial
enterprise. The performance contract (to be signed in June 1988)
vill seek to define and quantify the respective responsibilities of
the State and OTRACO and will include a tariff adjustment, to ensure
that OTRACO maximizes cost recovery. A subsidy vill be granted,
based on detailed cost estimates of the company's public service
function, and vill be explicitly identified in the national budget.
- VERRUNDIs  The first phase of the diagnostic study emphasized the
company's severe debt problem, which is linked, in part, to the
devaluation of the currency. Improvements in the accounting systom
have been proposed. A second phase of the study vill examine the
overall operations and the economic position of VERRUNDI, and vill
allow the formulation of a comprehensive recovery program. The
negotiation of a performance contract vith the enterprise is planned
for end-1988.
34.      Reform programs for another 10 enterprises vill be formulated lu
1988189. Rehabilitation programs for a second group of enterprises vill be
completed by end-1988. These include: REGIDESO (water and electricity
supply and distribution), MINOTERIE DE MURAMVYA (flour milling), thr.e
import parastatals (EPIMABU, ONC, ONIMAC), and the LAITERIE CENTRALE DE
BUJUMBURA (milk production). The performance contract for REGIDESO is
planned to be negotiated and signed by January 1989. Reform programs for
a third group of enterprises -- COTEBU (textile production), ONL, SIP
(housing), and three state-owned hotels and ONATEL (telecommunications) --
vill be prepared during 1989.
D. Monetary and Credit Policies
35.      Burundi's monetary and credit policies have been determined on the
basis of annual agreements between the Government and the Bank of the
Republic of Burundi (BRB) regarding the amount and terms of Central Bank
advances to Government.  Other credit policy instruments have included
ceilings on credit expansion, managed through prior authorizations for



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 10
lbans ln excess of a given amount, restrictive regulation of interest
rates, and liquidity coefficients and sectoral allocations for
rediscountable medium-term loans. While some of these monetary and credit
instruments may be maiatained, new instruments vill be introduced in order
to facilitate effective control of overall credit while deregulating the
economy.
36.      Interest rates vill be progressively decontroled leaving a greater
role for market forces and competition among commercial banks and financial
institutions vill be encouraged.  Efficiency of the financial sector has
been impaired by monopoly rights enjeyed by CADEBU (Caisse d'Epargne), the
savinga fund, on compulsory-savings deposits, by the inability of pnblic
enterprises to deposit funds ln the institutions of their choice, and by
the practice of consortium financing for the coffee campaign. Moreover,
the discriminatory policy vhich has characterized thé issue of Treasury
Bonds-his hindered rational resource allocation. Avare of these
deficiencies, the Goverament has decided to undertake reforme under the
second structural adjustment credit (SAL II). Reforma wills a) promote
market determination of interest rates; b) simplify an unvieldy interest
rate structure; c) liberalize Treasury bond (bons du Trésor) allocations
among financial institutions, through the introduction of an auction
system; and d) encourage the introduction of more flexible instruments of
credit control.
37.      Derexulation of interest rates.  The Goverrment recognizes that
competition among financial institutions is reduced as a combination of
minimum deposit rates and maximum lending rates places a ceiling on profit
margins. The ceiling may be counterproductive since Lt precludes financing
of higher-risk activities and is discriminatory vith respect to both savers
and financial establishments. The Government is abolishing CADEBU's
compulsory-savings monopoly, leaving to the market the role of setting
deposit lnterest rates on all forma of savings.
38.      In order to correct the current discrimination ir interest-rate
determination and the allocation of treasury bonds, the Government has
decided to introduce an auction system, open to all f nancial institutions.
The auction should facilitate the development of a domestic mone aem&ar-kt
which vill provide a flexible mechanilm for determining interest rates on
short-term funds. To promote small savers, progressive-rate treasury bonds
vill be issued starting ln September 1988.
39.      The procesa of interest-rate deregulation will take place in four
stages and by July 1, 1989, at the latest, financial institutions vill be
permitted to set their rates (including commissions) for loans and
deposits. The Central Bank (BRB) vill maintain tvo rediscount rates: a
normal rate and a preferential rate (i.e. to promote credit to export
sectors).
(a) At end-March 1988, the regulation of interest rates for non-
rediscountable loans vas abolished and the minimum interest rate on
demand deposits in excesa of FBu 100,000 was elilminated.



-   63 -
ANNEX v
Page il
(b) Before end-September 1988, deposit interest rates vill be
deregulated vith the exception of a minimum rate (currently 7
percent) on pas.book savings deposits. The number of discount
rates and interest rates on rediscountable loans vill be reduced to
three. MaxImum commercial bank margins vill be increased; however,
the difforential between lending and discount rates vill continue
to be regulated.
(c) Before December 1988 the number of discount rates vill be reduced
to two.
(d) Before July 1989 interest rates vill be fully liberalized vith the
exception of the tvo discount rates.
40.      Refor'- of monev and credit control instruments.  To facilitate
credit control the Government has decided to introduce a reserve
requirement for banks and other financial institutions. Reserves can be
held in the form of treasury bonds purchased through competitive bidding
thus limiting potenti;.l detrimental effects of this requirement on bank
profitability and promoting demand for treasury bonds.
41.      The system whereby banks were required to obtain prior
authorization from the Central Bank before extending a loan which vould
increase their exposure to a given borrover to FBu 10 million or more has
been eliminated at end-March 1988. The Government is avare that such a
system is not an effective instrument of control over the volume of credit
becauses a) part of the small loans are not covered; b) the centralization
of information on bank exposure occurs vith considerable time delay; and c)
the amount of outstanding prior authorizations èlvays greatly exceeds
actual outstanding loans. Moreover, its use as an instrument of selective
control largely duplicates other instruments such as rediscounting and
liquidity coefficients.
42.      Institutional measures.  The Government vill ensure that all
banking Institutions are subject to the same degree of regulation and that
competition vill be promoted. However, the COOPEC (Credit Cooperatives)
vill be subject to special regulations to be put in place before 1989. The
system of compulsory savings vill also be progressively liberalized. This
process vill be launched at the time of the signature of the performance
contract for CADEBU (planned for September 1988) and will be carried out
during the SAC Il period. The compulsory savings interest rates vill be
set by the market. Over time the compulsory savings system which has
already been abolished in the rural areas, vill be made optional.
E. Employment Policv
43.      Most of the population is employed in the rural subsistence sector
where labor productivity and incomes are low and available arable land is
declining. Based on an annual population growth rate of 3 percent, an
estimated 60,000 persons enter the labor market every year; however, the
modern sector prcvides only 3,000 full-time jobs. The Governinent has
already introduced a number of reforma during the first phase of its SAP to
eliminate previous bias against employment generation. Measures to
reorganize and strengthen agricultural services, to reduce taxation of



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 12
traded food products and to eliminate compulsory savings by amall farmer3
have been effective.  Other reforms have promoted the development of inter-
regional trade and employment in the informal urban sector.
44.      In the context of the second phase of its SAP, the Government vill
introduce additional measures to strengthen incentives for amall- and
medium-scale enterprise development and for employment generation.  The
Government's objectives are to liberalize the labor market, revise the
logislation on foreign labor, strengthen the role of the Ministry of Labor
in employment promotion, introduce measures to reduce the costs to
employers associated with employment and stimulate the development of
artisanal and informal activities. Unnecessary regulation of employment
vill b. abolished in order to pr>gressively reduce recruitment costs.
Information on the employment market and voluntary placement services
avallable to workers and employers vill be improved. The tax system and
regulations on commercial, industrial and artisanal activities vill be
reviewed and revised, where necessary, tc promote small enterprise
development in the modern and informal sectors.
45.      In particular, the Government vills
a) revise the labor legislation and recruitaent procedures to
allow employers greater freedom to select employees vithout prior mandatory
conaultationlappreval by the Labor Department (DMO). The present
recruitm.nt procedures, vhich are costly, vill be improved. In return,
employers vill be required to conform to national labor standards, to
protect the vell-being of their employees and to give priority, given
equivalent qualifications, to the employment of Burundian nationals.  The
revised regulations vill also simplify and clarify the procedures for
promoting the aBurundization" of employment and for providing support to
employers vho take the initiative to provide training programs;
b) revise the role of the Placement Committee so as to give it a
supervisory role over placement activities. The Commission vill alo,
where necessary, notify the competent authorities of its views regarding
employment problems; and
c)strengthen the capacity of DMO to perform the functions of
evaluating employers' specific skills needs.
46.      The legislation on the employment of foreign labor vill be
improved vith a view to reaffirming on the one hand, the priority to be
accorded nationals, and on the other hand, the need to protect enterprises'
right to use foreign expertise when it is not available in the country.
In this respect, the following measures vill be adopted: a) the Foreign
Employment Committee vill be broadened to include employers and vill
establish precise criteria for the granting of work permita to aliens; b)
wvenever possible, working and residence permits vill be issued for the
same duration; c) foreign vorkers who lose their jobs vill be allowed to
seek another job vithout having their vorking permits automatically
revoked; aud d) th. tax on foreign vorkers' earnings vill be used for
training local labor.



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 13
47.      The Ninistry of Labor vill strengthen its activities concernings
(a) the formulation and implementation of employment promotion policies;
(b) the evaluation of the impact of the revised investment code on
employment generation; and (c) the analysis of annual labor statistics to
determine recent employment and vage-structure developments. The Ministry
of Labor (in particular, its Studies Office and Manpover Department) vill
be strengthened under a project financed by UNDP and executed by the ILO.
48.      The Ministry of Labor vill redefine the roles of Lts various
departments accordingly to strengthen planning and statistical functions,
to introduce computerization and training activities and, finally, to
reallocate personnel to employment promotion activities. It vill also
improve its collaboration with other ministries interested in employment
issues, such as the Interior, Trade and Industry, Civil Service and Health
Ministries and the Chamber of Commerce. Emphasis vill be placed on social
dialogue and consultation in the context of the Nat onal Labor Council --
or in any other tripartite commission, vith representative' from the
Goveriment, the Burundi Workers Union, and the employers.  The sub-
committee for Human Resources Planning vill be reinforced.
49.      The Manpower Department (DMO) vill continue to play an important
role in employment promotion, notably in the exchange of information
between job seekers and employers.  To improve the DMO efficiency, the
Government vill implement, in a progressive fashion, the folloving
activities:
a) establishment of a job-seekers' data bank, classified by occupation
and skill level;
b) computerization of placement operations;
c) creation of a section specialising In the placement of managers,
supervisors and foremen;
d) development of an occupational classification;
e) establishment of a Counselling and Guidance Office to foster mini-
business employment and self-employment; and
f) creation of a unit to provide liaison between services demanded by
the modern sector and services supplied by the informal sector.
50.      These reforms of labor legislation and reglementation vill be
implemented in two phases.  During the first phase, which vill be completed
by December 1989, the Governnient vill take the necessary steps to
liberalize the recruitment procedures in the private sector.  Before
December 1989, the impact of this first phase vill be assessed, based on
surveys covering the views of all social partners. The second phase, based
on the results of the assessment, vill envisage the extension of
liberalization to the parastatal sector.
51,      Other Employment-Related Issues.  In consultation vith a
commission composed of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the
Ministry of Labor, the Burundi Workers Union and the Employers Association,
the Goverrment vill study alternative vays of tmproving the efficiency of
medical coverage of private-sector employees (currently 100% of expenses
are paid by employers). The principle of a "deductible" (wvere part of the
cost is borne by the employee) vill be adopted in order to reduce the costs
to employers. To ensure that this reform is consistent vith the existing



- 66 -
ANNEX V
Page 14
systems and takes into account equity questions, the. Government vill
undertake this study in the context of the studies already in progress on
health service financing in Burundi (Health and Population Project).
Available options such as: (i) extending insurance coverage under the civil
service mutual insurance scheme (mutuelle) to private-sector employees;
(ii) creating a health insurance fund administered by the private sector;
and (iii) setting up a single, universal system, with employee
contributions administered by a health insurance department (auch as the
civil service mutuelle) vill be clarified. Recommendations vill be
presented to the Commission at the end of 1988.
52.      The Government vill revise the Central Bank practice prohibiting
the importation of second hand technology in order to improve access by
small enterprises to capital goode. Such iUporte vill have to be
accompanied either by minimum performance warranties or by a certificate
from a competent international organization attesting to the quality of the
equipment.
53.      To promote job creation in small and medium enterprises, including
those in the inormal sector, the structure of municipal taxes on
businesses in Bujumbura vill be revised to improve equity and also to
provide greater incentives to job creation. Municipal taxes are currently
set on a flat-rate basis and change every year. They also discourage job
creation. (For example, a carpentry workshop employing three vorkers pays
a tax of FBu 10,000 a year whereas a workshop vith one employee more pays
FBu 30,000). The reform vill take into accouant the need to ensure adequate
tax revenue to keep pace vith the fores eeab le development of the city of
Bujumbura and increasing costs that the Municipality of Bujumbura vill have
to meet. The Government has also prepared tax collection and management
reforma designed to ensure greater equity and to maximise tax revenue and
accouating reliability.
F. Agricultural Policy
54.      The agrîeultural sector constitutes the base of Burundi's economy,
accounting for more than 50 percent of GDP and contributing more than 80
percent of export earnings. However, the agricultural sector faces major
structural problemo. Although output has kept pace vith population growth,
the sector continues to be geared to subsistence farming and yields remain
low. Land availability te limited and likely to be exhausted shortly.
Cultivation of increasingly marginal land, progressive deforestation and
reduction in fallow acreage and failure to use fertilizer are among the
major factors responsible for declining land potential. Marketing of
produce is difficult vith fluctuations in agricultural production
frequently resulting in a sharp fall in prices when surpluses cannot be
marketed.
55.      Nevertheless, Burundi's agricultural sector offers opportunities
for growth on a larger scale than in many other African couatries. Tie
Burundian farmer han shown extraordinary ability to adapt to farming
conditions. The pressure on arable land has prompted farmers to adopt new
technologies in order to increase yields. Attention to applied research on
thoes new technologies is necessary and difficulties in marketing fooderopa
in the face of limited domestic demand present serious obstacles to the
promotion of higher-yield techniques.



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Page 15
56.      The Government's broad objectivei are as followss a) meet the food
needs of a rapidly growing population; b) expand production and exports of
agricultural products; and c) increase farm incomes to enable the rural
sector to modernise and become a market for production from the industrial
sector. The strategy for the sector is based on: a) rational development
and utilization of the remaining available hill-slope and marsh land; b)
intensification of production by small farmers through development of
agricultural research (vith a view to introducing new technologies), of
production (where economically justified) and distribution of inputs, and
of production support structures, including extension, credit and marketing
channels; and c) regional specialization vith a view to maximizing
production by ecological zone.
57.      Increasinx Production of Export and Fooderops.  The Government is
fully avare of the critical role of agricultural exports in the balancing
of the country's external accounts. It vill continue to concentrate
efforts on increasing production and marketing of traditional exporte as
vell as on diversifying the range of non-traditional agrieultural exports.
Targets for non-traditional products vill be set based on a study of
Burudil's comparative advantage. Products vith a high unit value in
relation to transportation costs (essential oils, spices, exotic fruits,
horticulture, and medicinal. plants) vill also be considered. The cost of
farm inputs vill progressively be transferred to farmers whose production
decisions vill be adjusted to price signals for various crops.
58.      Although there is little government intervention in fooderop
pricing and marketing, price controls are in place for major export cropa
(coffee, tea, and cotton). As a basis for refining Goverrment's policy
regarding export crops, the Governnent vill undertake an agricultural
comparative advantage study including an assessment of producer incentives
in light of production costs and vorld prices of those crops.
59.      Concerning coffee, the objective is to increase production
substantially. The feasibility of this target vill be examined taking into
account poor demand prospects on international markets, Burundi's
vulnerability to transport conditions in its neighboring countries, and the
crop's opportunity costs (given limited availability of arable land).
Burundi's relative position in the vorld market for coffee vill also be
assessed as vell as the possibilities for penetrating markets for beat
quality arabica coffee. In this context, the Governrent vill develop
(before September 1989) a long-term production strategy, based on the
results of the above-mentioned study.
60.      An action program vill be introduced to improve quality of
production and the efficiency of the coffee sub-sector. It vill includes
(a) continued investment in coffee vashing stations; (b) identification of
structures to ensure effective management of vashing stations (producing
fully vashed coffee); (c) strengthening of BCC's management capabilities
and esteblishing a marketing and transportation strategy; (d) resolving the
problem of the tpotato" taste which vould upgrade the market image of
Burundian coffee; (e) increasing the effectiveness of pricing policy



- 68 -
ANNEX V
Page 16
through the introduction of a sliding scale for 0fully washed coffee", and
assessing the possibility of introducing quality bonuses for producers; and
(f) exploring the feasibility of placing OCIBU and BCC on a fee basis for
their processing and marketing services.
61.      Government policies to increase food crop production includes
(a) Land settlement and development programs in the eastern part of the
country. In order to reduce riaks of environmental deterioration,
vulnerable areas vill be set aside for other uses (forests, rangeland,
etc.). (b) A National Extension Unit (Service National de Vulgarisation)
vill be established to coordinate provincial agricultural services and
serve as a link between ISABU (research) and farmers, to disseminate the
results of adaptive research and to provide farmers' feedback to ISABU.
Extension services vill be strengthened and efforts vill be made to develop
technical packages adapted to specific ecological zones. (c) Production of
selected seed is based on a large number of small seed multiplication
centers using ISABU's foundation seed. The system has resulted in quality
discrepancies of multiplied seed and in yield increases of only between 10-
15 percent. In view of the selected seed's greater vulnerability to
disease and veather, farmers prefer to use traditional seed. The
Government plans to improve the program of seed production. (d) Fertilizer
use is an important step toward improving yields, even before the
introduction of selected seed. Research on least-cost production is needed
to determine the cost-effectiveness of fertilizer use according to crop and
ecological zone. The Government intende toa (i) update and extend
fertilizer trial programs to mixed cropping typical of actual farm
conditions; (ii) conduct trials on combinations of chemical and organic
fertilizer; and (iii) clarify import and supply policies. Fertilizer
marketing vill be gradually. entrusted to cooperatives or private
individuals, and financing could be provided by COOPECs (savings and loan
cooperatives). The Goverrment vill also examine the economic feasibility
of developing the Matongo phosphate deposits and of using lime. (e) The use
of pesticides, phytosanitary controls and improved on-farm storage
facilities is vell vithin the grasp of the average farmer and could lead to
substantial increases in production. This tecbnology has not been videly
disseminated due to a lack of funding; however, as part of the Fifth
Development Plan, a national phytosanitary service vill be created in
ISABU. The above actions vill be implemented in the context of the IDA-
financed Agricultural Services Project.
62.      Forestry Production and Envirormental Protection.  The Government
intends to plant 300,000 ha of woodlots to meet construction timber and
fuelvood requirements. The folloving principles vill be applieds
(a) promotion of tree planting by private individuals. Tree planting vill
become an integral part of the farming system and a special program vill
identify suitable species. The Department of Water and Forestry Resources
vill produce the seedlings for sale to the private sector. Pricing for
wood products vill be reviewed and rationalized to provide adequate
incentives for wood production. (b) Planting of protective woodland on
mountain ridges and other areas exposed to severe risk of erosion vill be
continued. (c) Training of technical staff at all levels vill be
encouraged.



- 69 -
ANNEX V
Page 17
63.      Until recently, efforts to protect soils have been restricted to
orosion control and the planting of protective woodlots, and have met with
only limited success. The Government's new policy vill be based on an
ecosystem approach and on a better understanding of the vatersheds under
development.  Implementation of these programs vill, wherever possible, be
entrusted to the local population, with the public authorities providing
only technical assistance.
64.      Restructurinr of the RDCs.  RDCs currently have high
administrative coste that are unsustainable once foreign'assistance has
been phased out. In addition, high overhead reduces the amount available
to assist project target groups. The Government will restructure the RDCs
as folloems a) etreamlining administrative structures; b) improving coet
recovery; c) transferring certain commercial functions to the private
sector; and d) making substantial improvements in organizatlonal efficiency
enabling more resources to be transferred to producers. This restructuring
vill include measures to strengthen the Central Government services which
muet assume some of the tasks currently performed by the RDCs.
65.      RationalisinR Aaroindustrial Proiecte.  Burundi has undertaken
four major projecte (rice, edible oils, wheat and sugar), each of whlch
faces serious financial problems. The Goverrnent has implemented a system
of high-yteld rice which has been vell assimilated by farmers.  Yielde are
high but an exc«ssively high producer price has led to a unit coet
ceonsiderably above the import price.  The Government vill deregulate the
rice paddy market for the Imbo RDC no later than the 1989190 crop year in
order to reduce imbalances in the sector and to promote exporte.
66.      The Government is currently looking into the feasibility of
extending processing capacity for oil palm. The choice of technology vill
be based upon its econumic return. In the event that economic and
financial profitability cannot be ensured the Government vill net undertake
the investm.nt.
67.      SOSUMO (Sociati Sucrière du Mosso) currently produces sugar cane
and a processing plant is in place vith refining operations echeduled to
begin in June. However, a brief analysis of the domestic cest of sugar
production based on actual variable coste indicates that SOSUMOW' sugar
would most probably not be competitive vith imported sugar in a deregulated
market. The Government vill maintain its commitment (made under SAL I) not
to subsidise SOSUMO's operations. The company9s working capital
requirements including losses incurred during the start-up phase vill be
included in the financing plan under negotiation vith the project'e
financiers. This financing plan vill be submitted to the Vorld Bank. An
in-depth study vill be undertaken to determine the opportunity coet of
pursuing this project, including the identification of additional
investments vith an economic rate of return above 10 percent. The study
vill aleo assess the scope of reducing SOSUMO's operating coste. The
consultant vill be recruited prior to the effectiveness of the credit. The
conclusions of the study vill be converted into an action program to be
prepared before December 1988. The Bank's approval of this action plan
vill be a conditien of second tranche release. In any case, the



- 70 -
ANNEX V
Page 18
Government vill undertake to liquidate the enterprise If it te unable to
demonstrate that the project is economically viable in the longer term
folloving the firat two years of operation.
G. Social Sector Policv
68.      Despite economie and financial constraints the Government achieved
virtually all of Lts Five-Year Plan (1983-87) objectives for the health and
education sectors.  Health care facilities are nov available to roughly 70
percent of the population, an expanded program to Inmunize every child by
1990 appears feasible, one-third of the population has access to clean
vater (compared vith 10 percent in 1980) and practically all seven-year
olde vere enrolled in achool this year.
69.      Neverthelesa studies show that certain groupe remain vulnerable.
Infant mortality La still one of the highest La Africa vith roughly one-
third of chlldren between one and three years of age suffering from
moderate to severe malnutrition. Lack of sufficient spacing of pregnancies
exposes mothers to caloric deficiencies while a new health problem, AIDS,
has potentially severe consequences for both mothers and children. Only 32
percent of the rural population has access to safe drinking vater, and
sanitation and hygiene still require attention.
70.      The Coverment9o social action program seeks to complement and
expand upon the existing national programa hille addressing specific
po"ertylproblesm. The main components ares
a) the provision of nutritional complements for malnourished
cUldren;
b) str.ngthening primary health care and supply of low cost druga;
c) special programs targeted to vomene
d) epeciftc studies and program aimed at limproving job creation;
e) the development of a food security strategy; and
f) inastitutional measures aimed at improving the monitoring of the
social sectors and at strengthening coordination of social programes vithin
the Governuent.
71.      The folloving criter4a vlll be applied in developing these
programas (a) efforts vill be targeted to reach beneficiaries vithout
ovorlapping with existing programa; (b) expenditures vill be explicitly
budgeted to enable costs to be closely monitored; (c) in preparing these
targeted programs, least-coet solutions vill be favored; and (d) these
programs vill be dosigned to run for a llmited duration and Vill be subject
to a thorough evaluaticn to ascertain wvether they should be continued.
72.      Imaprovinr Nutrition of Vulnerable Groupe.  Monitoring of young
chlldren  to detect those who are undernourished or vulnerable vill be
generalised in every health center throughout the country.  Nutritional
instruction vill b. atmed at mothero, taking into accouant the local



- 71 -
ANNEX V
Page 19
availability. of foodatuffs and dietary habits. Food supplements vill be
available at every health center and adequate nutrition for pregnant women
and nursing mothers vill be included in maternal monitoring.
73.      Priority vill be given to the folloving activitiess (a) The
Ministry of Health is currently studying the nutritional statua of young
children. A program to supply nutritional supplements to severely affected
children vill be prepared. (b) In conjunction wlth UNICEF, a program for
manufacturing infant cereal 18 under way in three processing plants owned
by cooperatives. This program vill be subject to a mid-term review and, if
results are favorable, will be extended to the rest of the country. (c) A
school health program to supply nutritional supplements to children of
primary school age and to disseminate relevant nutritional information vill
be prepared.
74.      Expanding Realth Servlaes and Access to Essential Druas.  The
Government vill step up its efforts to improve maternal and child health
and family planning setvices, including an expanded program on
immunization. The availability of consulting services for infants and
maternal monitoring vill be enhanced. The Government vill give priority to
expanding the network of primary health care centera and providing them
vith qualified staff and sufficient equipment and supplies to enable them
to operate effectively. A national AIDS program which is being prepared
vill be integrated into health services. The system for financing health
care services vill be revised to improve accessibility of the poorest
segments of society. Health insurance carda vill be distributed to the
entire population thus spreading the costs of services. Other health
insurance schemes currently in ex.stence vill be harmonized.
75.      The Government's efforts to improve access to essential drugs have
foeused on providing the Ministry of Health vith additional funds to buy
druga, increasing the number of private pharmacies partially financed by
the Goverrment through the Mutuelle system, and investments in ONAPHA.
Efforts of recent years have, however, been partially offset by price
increases. To reduce the coet of basic drugs and make them more readily
accessible, the Government vill liberalize the Importation of generic
drugs, while reducing customs tariffs of basic drugs. A treatment guide
for major diseases vil be introduced to reduce unnecessary prescription of
drugs, sad the Governuent vill promote the use of generic drugs whenever
fessible.
76.      The Government plans to distribute essential drugs through the
basic heslth care network. Inventory control in health centers vill be
strengthened to prevent depletion of supplies or the accumtilation of
excessive or outdated stocks. A cost-benefit analysis of the current
system for distributing medicines should examine the option of a more
decentralized system.
77.      Special Proarams for women. A pilot 'Women-Credit-Production'
program is being implemented lu three provinces. The program vill be
evaluated vith a view to extending its coverage nation-vide.
78.      Emaloyment creation.  The Goverument vill undertake preparatory
work to identify sad prepare specific programs in the following areass (a)



- 72 -
AN=  v
Page '20
labor-intensive components of public investments, including the possible
reprogramm4ng of identified operations; (b) the development or extension of
emall productive projects to be supported by public and private donors
(e.g., smsll handierafts, fish farming and livestock operations); (c) a
viable rural housing credit acheie as a follow-up to a pilot project which
has  lready reached 18,000 rural famlles; and (d) technology lmprovements
in artisanal construction and the production of construction materials.
79.      Food securitv strateft. The Government vill formulate a food
security strategy taking _nto account the studies already available and
ongoing ta the agriculture and nutritional sectors, vhich address ln
particular the Issues of food security and policy and viii explore
available options to reduce the risk of food shortages in cases of drought
(early warning system, contingency plans, storage policy).
80.      Institutional Strenxtheninoe. The Mlinistry of Plan vill ensure the
coordination, preparation and fimplementation of the above mentioned
actions, vhich yill be specif_ed ln the context of the UNDP/Bank Social
Dammeoion Project. This project vill 4dentify aleo the additional needs
for coordinating the preparation and frplementation of the Government's
social action programs initiated by other government agencies or by various
public or private donors.
April 26, 1988
S.E. Gerard NIBIGIRA                             S.E. Pierre BINOBA
Minister of Planning                             NLnister of Finance



- 78 -
ANNEX V
Page 21
BURMNDI - STRUCTURAL REFORU PROGRAN  (SAL IZ)
POLICY AREA                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
BY COVERNUT                                    TMIETABL£
1. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
. Agre on mmcroeconomic frémework for 1989-91, ineiuding            Decsmber 1988
overmil budg.tary defolct, PEP end pi lot con  olidatsd         (2nd tranche release)
budge for 1989.
b. Agre. on macroeconomic framework for 1990-92, lncluding          October 1989
overai  budgetary df tcIt, PEP end pilot consolidat.d           (ard tranche moic )
budget for 199.
c. AdJust exchange rate es n-edsd to maintain externat              During proram
equtlibrlum
d. Mon.tery end credtt reore (se parn.7 bslow)                      Durin progrn
e. Adoption of financlal program supported by SAF end               Ouring progras
str.mgthen PEP preparation (par  8 below.
2. TRASE AND INDUSTRIAL POLICY
Impoue Li ber Ixatl on:
a.  Inor s  tUs celilng boloe  which baink are allowed to grant   April 1988
automtic Ii c no  f rom FBu 1 millIon to F8u 10 mn
b.. EltI-nâte remnlnng import restrictionms
- on Importe of luxury goode                                    April 1988
- on importe competing with production of ONAPHA, COTEBU and  Sefore *d-199
VERRUNDI.
Agreement on célendar of Itberali attons
ONAPHA                                                 End-1988
cOTEDU                                                 march 1989
VERRUNDI                                               Docember lOU
Price Ilberalixattons                                                       (2ed tranch  relas)
c.  Review end adjust water end olectriclty tariffe                 Durlag program
Tartff Reform:
d. Implement 8rd phase of tariff refora, with the objective to   December SOU
redue average térIft, while maltantnIng a neutral affset        (2nd tranche releaée)
on budgetary end balance of payent levole.
Export Promotions
a.  Promuigate decroe on export promotion.                          Aprl 1 98O
f.  Set up OfftIc  of Standard  and Meaoures                        Deceber SO
g. Complet  study of Buruadi 'O long-torm export potentiel ln       Deceber SOU
mmnufacturing end servic«.
Inrvestsnt Incentives:
h. Quarantee Fund internal procedures:
Preparatton end approval of internal procedures             April 1 SO
Implementatton                                              Jun- 198ff(E.cttlvees)



- 74 -
ANNI V
Page 22
BURUNDI - STRUCTURAL REFORI PROMA   (SAL I»)
POUCY AREA                        ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
iY GOVURNN                                     TIMAII£
1. Eliznat. compuisory depouit r.qulrod from forelgn               June 1988
Importers whon thoy have Inveetd  t ladas  FBu 2  million
In productive sectors.
j. Remunorate compulsory deposlte.
Announco masure                                             Jue 1988
Actuel remunoratmon                                        January 1989
k. Announce objectivaes  nd measuros ot SAP to inform economIc      May 1988
agents end tho general public nd Insitill confidence In the
privete soector.
8. PUBLIC EXPENDITIRES MANGEMENT
a. Agre_ent on the PIP:
Agressent on 1988 PIP (lz. end structure)                  Aprl  1988
Agreement on $988-90 PIP bés.d on dtai led Information      June 1988
(E- sfctlvon««s)
b. A8re on action plan to strength.n MINPLAN                        Jun  1988
c. Agro on actlon plan to strngthen cepacity ln Flnance and         December 1988
sectoral minlstrie. tn support ot budget refors.
d. Launeh pubile expondItures revIew                                May 1988
e. Agree on PEP for 1989-91 end pilot untfled budget for 1989       December 1988
(see 1 s above)
t.  Complote TA survey                     ;ecomber 1988
.  Strengohhn Clvil Serviee Efflolencyy
Define action program, lncluding recrultment procedures     Septmber 1988
Lnunch *ation progra_                                       Dec. 1988 (2nd tranche)
h. Refore of budget/programming systua end adopt effective          B ore end-1l90
public accounting syste.
4. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
a. Adoption of decroe on PE legal framevork.                        September 1988
b. Liquidations:
SUPOBU, SOMEDU (documents)                                   May 1988 (Board)
SOGESA (decree)                                              June 1988 (Efftectivnes
AGRIBAL                                                     Dec. 1988
c.  Signature of performance contracte:
OTRACO                                                          June 198
CADEIBU, OTRABU                                                September 1988
ONUPHA                                                          December 1988
VERRUNDI                                                        Dec. 1988 (2nd tranche)
EPIMABU, ONC, ONIMAC                                            Decomber 1988
d. Rehabilitatlen Programs for
REGIDESO                                                        July 1988
Minoterie de MIURANVA, MIlk
plant, *nd COTEBU                                              Novemer 1988
e. Signature oe  performance contracte:
REGIDESO                                                        Jan. l989 (2nd tranceh)
Minoterie de MURANVYA, Milk
plant, end COTEBU                                              May 1989



_ ?6 -
ANNEX V
Pa  28
WRUNDI - sTRUCTUL REFORU PROGRAII ($AL 11)
POUCY AREA                        ACnONS TO 8E TAKEN
8Y COVERNIENT                                  TIIIETA9LE
f. ONL/SIP ONATEL, Hotels:
Rohabligtatlon progrema                                         mlrch 1989
Slnatur. of performance contracte:                            Soptembor 1989
g LaunehTng sector studios ns basse for polTcy roform:
Price/tarifft  end Incentive                                    msy 198
*yet
Privatization                                                   MIy 1988
R«liprocal debts/ financinl flowe Stato/PE                     IMy 1988
h. Implkment.ton of Management Intormtion Systos (MIS)              Decembor 1988
C. AGRICULTURE
Coff^ end Agricultural Exporta:
a. Revtslon of prleln  *ysto  (echella mobile):
- Introduce eliding scsie for fully-shed coffe.              April 1988
- annuel revilon tskTng Into account preliminéry *tudios    March 1988
(Znd tranche)
b. Put la place technicsl aositantce progr. to etrengthen BCC   Msy 1988
marketing copeTity
c. Study of coopérative *dvntage of Burundl export crope.          September 1989
Eloborat long-torm trategy for coffeJ production b sed on
coffe. opportualty cout end tho an*lysle of tho
Prospects for Burundi coffeJ on lntornational morket.
d.  Imploent rO e  rch progran to eliminato coff o pototo  ete".   DurTng progras
o. 8tudy efficlont structure of mnagement for *wsling              November 1988
stations.
Inputs Polocy:
f.  Elaborts long-tom pollcy on *grlculturl inputs; ovoluat.    Ouring progr"r  ln th
eo_nomst  uhilizailon of chemical ftrtIizre; smplo_met         context of th  AgrTe.
national program of Tmproved s*eds; lmprove partielpation      Sorvice Project.
of prlvate soctor.
Agrlcultural Sector PIP:
S. Sugart Study on long-torm foasibility of SOSUMO end              December 1988
agresent on action pin.                                (2nd tranche)
s Implementation of the above action plan                 Septemb r anhe
($rd tranche)
i. Rleo: LTberamllaton of ric marketing for the 1989/9             Dec mbr 1988
crop Yar.                                                 (2nd trancha)
J. Palm 011: Study of the projet to extend exltIng proceosing    Decomber 1988
cepacity.
/



- 76 -
ANN   V
BJRUNDI - STRUCTURAL REFORU PROGRAJ  (SAL II)
POUCY AREA                        ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
BY GOVERN4ENt                                  TIIETABLE
S. EMPLOYET POUCIES
a. Liberalisz *ytet &f recruitment: prlva.te  ector
enterprises ,ill b. able to rocrult freely Burundlan
lsbor. Revis. rol- end functions of Placement Comttet.
Rovis. las on forelgn labor.
-  Submislon of revisad legilsation acceptabl, to  DA        iune 198
to t1h National Labor Council for approval.                (Effectilvenoses)
- Agressent on 2nd phose prepared *fter assessment of       December 1989
tiret phase reform.                                        (Srd trancho rolosa)
b. StrengthenTng of services of LMlnlstry of Labor:
- Launching UNDP/ILO project to asstst DUO                    June 1988
- Program to trengthen the statistice on the informai         December`1988
s cor accepted by the Labor and Trade end Industry
lnietries.
- Strengthoning th. service. in the Lo or VinIstry            December 1988
responsible for employment promotion.                       (2nd tranche roleasé)
o. Authorife Importe of second-hmnd t.chnology when                 Aprll 1988
accompanled by performance suayento, cortifiateos.
d. Adopt revise  structre of municipal taxes on mll  m*nd           Aprl 1988
mediau  enterprios.
e. Study of health tnsurance systes for privato employeas:
-TOR a*ceptod by G»vt, Labor Union end Employer. mndu
Héélth Ministry.                                            Jun 1988
- Proposition of non systes                                   Deoeêbor zo8o
7. NONOTARY AND CMRIT POLICIES
FI rt phose:
a.  Eltmtnate a priori ceodtt authorization                         Aprll 1988
b.  Ftrat auctlon of Troasury Bille (subscrlption open to *Il       Iby 1988
fintncial lnutitutlons); calendar of issues for the 2nd
Quarter 1988.
c. Derogulate Interemt rates on non-resdtmcoutable loane end        April 1988
eliminate minimum interest rates on sight dapomits.
d. Implement Compul sory Reserves Syste.                            April 1988
Second phase:
f. lesu, of Tresu-y Bonds with progrestve rat  .                   September 1988
9. Roduce number of rediscount rates from 6 to 8.                   Septembr 1988
h. Roduce number of maximum lnterest rates on rediecountable       Septeber 1988
credit. from 8 to a.
i. Revise use of medium torm lIquldlty ratios.                     September 1988



- 77 -
ANNEX V
Page 2S
BURUNDI - STRUCTURAL REFORU PROGRAU  (SAL II)
POLICY AREA                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEU
BY GOVERNVENT                                   TIMETABLE
Third phase:
J. Reduce number of rediscount rates to 2 (normI end                Decamber 1988
preferentlal rates).                                            (2nd tranche rolease)
Fourth phuse:
k. Llberalization of the 8 maxlmum l-nding Interest rates and       July 1989
of the mlnimum depostt rate on sévinge deposit.
Other actions:
1. Agreement with IDA on actioo  program for CADEBU                May 1988 (Board)
m.  Completion of fIrat phase of liberallartion of compulsory       October 1989
savings.                                                        (8rd tranche release)
n.  Adopt proeedures for the National Carantee Fund.                June 1088
(Effectiveness)
o. Revise the roal estete code provielong granting the              June 1088
TrEasury an absolute prlority on collateral property to the
detriment of ail other lien holders.
S. SOCIAL AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAUS
a. Request to Join teh  Soclal Dimenion of Adjustmsnt project       Aprll 1988
f - nnc.d by UNDP and executed by the Bank.
b. Defln i nd agree on program of welI torgetted poverty           Deeember 88
ailevlation actions.                                            (2nd tranche releaso)
c. Prepratilon of a  onltoring *ystem                               During program
9. FOLLOW-UP ON SAL
a. Relnforce Comite de Suivl *ith permanent secretariat end        Aprll 1988
adoptlon of system of Indicator .
b. Coordinate closely *lth Resident lsslon                        During progrm.



- 78 -
ANNEX VI
DISBURSEMENT, PROCUREMENT. ADMINISTRATION AND AUDITING
1.       The credit would reimburse 100 percent of the CIF cost of eligible
imports, subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or
after credit signing. However, retroactive financing will be permitted for
those eligible imports made before the date of agreement but not before
April 1. 1988, up to an amount equal to US$18 million. Public and private
sector Importa would be eligible, except for military equipment and luxury
consumer goods.  Importe financed by other sources would not be eligible
for IDA financing. The Central Bank would be responsible for assembling
requested supporting documentation collected from the commercial banks, to
be provided as follows: for small contracts between US$10,000 and
US$500,000 equivalent, statements of expenditures will be used. All
documentation including invoices will be retained by the Central Bank for
periodic examination by Bank staff. The statement of expenditures would be
signed by the Central Bank and would include the country of origin, a
description of goods, the date ef payment, the currency in which the
payment was effected, the exchanee rate used and the US dollar equivalent
charged to the Special Account, ànd the name and address of the final
beneficiary. For all contracta above US$500,000, full documentation would
accompany withdrawal applications.  In order to facilitate diabursements,
two special accounts, one for IDA funds and one for the SJF Japanese grant
would be established in the Central Bank in its name into which the IDA
would make two initial deposits. The initial deposits into the special
accounts will be US$15 million for IDA funds and US$5 million for Japanese
grant funds. The special accounts would be replenished at regular
intervals against withdrawal applications, for a minimum of US$500,000
each.
2.       To facilitate the monitoring of the use of funds under the Credit,
expenditures would be subject to verification by a reputable inspection
firm of quantities and of quality, and except in cases of ICB, prices. The
audit report would include a qualified opinion on these verifications.
Special Accounts and the statement of expenditures would also be audited by
an independent auditor.



MAP SECTION



29-  3T 
BURUNDI
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                      RWANDA
*   ARRONDISSEMAENT CAPITALS .$---.                                                                                                        N
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                              f                                                       j
I   NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE EOUNDARIES                                       Bugobira         î..s.                 Gn ronyi
-      COMMUNE BOUNDARIES         .                          Joho                                    ;
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                            f
KAYTZA                    \                                   MUNXgJo  | Kg~IRUNO /.
ANZA>  k  $^o»t ,.,                                                                                      TANZANIA
Mpo.oM~iOA  REoy.-~N'.ZAoAo..
s{t~~ ~ ~ ~ j  ugn                        ron                               = on   \i .poi                      o  
-3- ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~~ M0,o,A   RBka-                                          ITGARgig
*~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~.o,,~                                                         \&\Ol~         T4y -r    >/   bi/uEm o
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bro
)$ji\ e>t>Go uiy20   ;  \    0
RUTA
~~~~~~~~~Ny,oLcZAI RE Giog    >;`> '- 
J .- - -7 JMURAMWUR{   '  f  oC \s / ° ,/
B,, / ^ u e m b u ; c i   Q i m b i e   i  - bg.mf S   f ;   C :   N y oti   J R   b w n w   >   , /*
t  I   I   L    (Mngommcgo. Rusoka  \       /     Gdego      ,P KyRL;oIG'                             -
!   «obeg <2>SKO 1 RE   <    \ Butongsn2wc Wsin /\_/+~~10000
| v ( +/ \ Gir~~~AMi>4hbi Ikecko    
j   '   xJ7   \  g*+ C  \        1      /  ltobo  2 ,    J        t    k'intinrUGANJ
tLZE   )  u   8UrUX     )       ;   \      <     //Z           ;~~~~~~~~~~~~AIE                                K NY
4ô   ;   , m~53iÇyS 0   Rumon ét)     URu I         /  {         \              X                     ~- 4           _  rtvlel»       ltKtbg.
X                                                                           ,\ Su] YrondoC.,/ 9 |G~~~ ~ ~~~~~T AN7S -
(                     )Mkmb  *.? 



