Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1919 BU
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1919 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Borrower") and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 25, 1988 from the 
Borrower describing a program and calendar of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's  economy (hereinafter 
called the "Program"), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently 
needed imports and services required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the Association as Administrator of 
Special Joint Financing from Japan (the "Japanese Grant Administrator") to provide 
assistance in the financing of such imports and services in  accordance with the 
arrangement agreed upon by exchange of notes, dated  November 20, 1985 and August 19, 
1986, and by further exchange of letters, both dated July 21, 1987, between Japan and 
the Association, to support the Joint Program of Action for Sub-Saharan Africa and by 
Page  2
an agreement of even  date hereto by the Borrower and the Japanese Grant Administrator 
(the "Japanese Grant Agreement"), the Japanese Grant Administrator is agreeing to 
provide such assistance in an amount of seven hundred million Japanese Yen  (Y 
700,000,000) the ("Japanese Grant");
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Overseas Economic  
Cooperation Fund ("OECF") under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for  the African 
Facility a loan (the "OECF Loan") in an amount of one thousand seven hundred million 
Japanese Yen (Y 1,700,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Program on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "OECF Loan Agreement") to be entered 
into between the Borrower and OECF;
(D)
the Borrower has contracted from the Saudi Fund for Development ("SFD") a 
loan under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the African Facility (the "SFD 
Loan") in an amount of eleven million Saudi Riyals (SR  11,000,000) in support of the 
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "SFD Loan 
Agreement") dated February 7, 1987 between the Borrower and SFD; and
(E)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute  an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCC" means Burundi Coffee Company, a SDP;
 
(b)
"BNDE" means Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique, a SEM;
 
(c)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi, the Borrower's central 
bank;
(d)
"CADEBU" means Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi, an EPIC;
 
(e)
"EPIC" means Etablissement Public e Caractare Industriel ou  Commercial, 
Page  3
a public body with industrial or commercial purposes;
(f)
"FNGPE" means Fonds National de Garantie et de Promotion Economique, a 
SDP;
(g)
"OCIBU" means Office des Cafes Industriels du Burundi, an EPIC;
 
(h)
"PTA" means the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern Africa 
established by the treaty dated December 21, 1981;
(i)
"REGIDESO" means Regie de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite, an EPIC;
 
(j)
"SDP" means Societe de Droit Public, a public law company;
 
(k)
"SEM" means Societe d'Economie Mixte, a mixed economy company;
 
(l)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(m)
"SOGESA" means Societe de Gestion des Entrepts et Silos Alimentaires, an 
EPIC;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"SOSUMO" means Societe Sucrire du Mosso, a SEM; and
 
(p)
"VERRUNDI" means Verreries du Burundi, a SEM.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty four million  nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 64,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of this Section and of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or such  later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.  
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit  Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1st and November 1st in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 1st and November 1st commencing November 1st, 1998 and  ending May 1st, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1st, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the  Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the  Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association  may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant  element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BRB is designated as representative of the Borrower  for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BRB with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and  other evidence to be furnished 
to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall 
to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate 
amounts of not less than $500,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently  maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that no actions shall be taken inconsistent with the Program.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Page  6
Program shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loans shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed 
maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower for perform any of its 
obligation under 
such agreement;
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
4.01 (b) (i) (B) shall have occurred, subject to the  proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of 
that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Japanese Grant 
Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b)
that a revised legislation satisfactory to the Association aiming at the 
liberalization of the labor market for the private sector has been  submitted to the 
Borrower's National Labor Council;
(c)
that the Borrower's 1988-1990 Public Investment Program meeting criteria 
satisfactory to the Association has been enacted;
(d)
that a decree putting SOGESA into liquidation has been enacted;
 
(e)
that the charter of FNGPE has been revised and new internal procedures of 
FNGPE have been adopted; and
(f)
that an action plan for the progressive elimination of CADEBU's monopoly 
on urban/modern sector employees' compulsory savings has been submitted and is 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
Page  7
Boite Postale 224
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN
5036 PRESIBU BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
 SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in  respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required during the  execution of the Program and to be financed 
out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
Page  8
      121         -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718        718.7                  Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel
                                        elements (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
      897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals
                                        (except watches and watch
                                        cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths' wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971           -                   Gold, non-monetary
                                        (excluding gold ores and
                                        concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals from the Credit Account in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR 13,000,000 may be made on  account of payments made for such 
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1988;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the  Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account are in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 
16,200,000.
3.
(a)
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the 
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments 
shall have reached the equivalent  of SDR 28,900,000, unless the Association shall be 
satisfied, after an  exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described 
in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
(b)
No further such withdrawal or commitment shall be made after such 
aggregate shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 50,500,000 unless the  Association 
shall be satisfied, after a further such exchange of views: (i)  with the further 
Page  9
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that 
the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.
If, after the exchanges of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken  actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set  forth in Sections I and II of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising 
invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted. 
 
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 
each shall:
(a)
be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the 
purchaser of such goods; and
(b)
in the case of goods to be procured by the Borrower, its local 
governments and autonomous bodies, be awarded on the basis of price  quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed  copies of such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
Page  10
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably request 
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract or the documentation and the  information to be furnished 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the  
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions for Release of Second
and Third Tranche of the Credit
The following actions shall be taken consistent with the principles outlined in 
the Program and in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
Part A:
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement 
(Conditions for Release of Second Tranche).
 
1.
(a)
Submission of the Borrower's 1989-91 rolling Public Expenditure Program 
meeting criteria satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
completion of a test consolidated budget of the Borrower for 1989.
 
2.
Completion of a custom tariff reform, with the objective of ameliorating the 
custom nomenclature, reducing the average effective  protection rate and ensuring 
consistency with PTA tariff structure.
3.
Signing of performance contracts satisfactory to the Association with VERRUNDI 
and REGIDESO, with specific efficiency targets.
4.
Submission of a timetable satisfactory to the Association for the removal of 
import restrictions on products competing with those manufactured by VERRUNDI.
5.
Submission of an action plan for SOSUMO satisfactory to the Association.
 
6.
Review of the coffee pricing system in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
 
7.
Liberalization of the rice market.
 
8.
Implementation of the following credit reform measures:
 
(a)
establishment of a system satisfactory to the Association of   ceilings 
on interest rates on rediscountable credits and reduction of the number of such rates 
to two;
(b)
removal of the minimum deposit interest rates on sight deposits (except 
for passbook deposits);
(c)
reduction of the number of maximum interest rates to two;
 
(d)
adjustment of the "medium-term coefficient" which requires financial 
institutions to hold a portion of their assets in term credits; and
(e)
issue of Treasury Securities oriented to small savers.
 
9.
Submission of an action plan satisfactory to the Association to ameliorate the 
Page  11
social conditions of the population, particularly of target groups.
10.
Submission of an action plan satisfactory to the Association for the 
institutional strengthening of the services of the Ministry of Labor and Vocational 
Training in charge of employment promotion.
Part B:
Actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this  
Agreement 
(Conditions for Release of Third Tranche).
 
1.
(a)
Submission of the Borrower's 1990-92 rolling Public Expenditure Program 
meeting criteria satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
completion of a test consolidated budget of the Borrower for 1990.
 
2.
Submission of an action program satisfactory to the Association to increase the 
efficiency of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Implementation of the action plan for SOSUMO under Section 5 of Part A of this 
Schedule.
4.
Implementation of the action plan for the progressive elimination of  CADEBU's 
monopoly on compulsory savings under Section 5.01 (f) of this Agreement.
5.
Submission of legislation satisfactory to the Association extending to the 
public enterprise sector the liberalization of the labor market under Section 5.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
6.
Submission of a privatization plan satisfactory to the Association for the 
Borrower's public enterprise sector.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to  SDR 
11,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into  the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts  as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for  eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
Page  12
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or  at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made  for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the amount of 
any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Program, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the  Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
