Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
JAPANESE GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1919 BU
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Japanese Funds within the framework of the
SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated June 29, 1988
JAPANESE GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1919 BU
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Beneficiary") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the Japanese Funds 
within the framework of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the 
"Administrator").
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International Development Association 
("IDA") have established by their Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the 
"Resolution"), a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the "African Facility") 
constituted by the funds contributed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the "Bank") and other donors and administered by IDA, acting as 
Administrator of the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the 
provisions of the Resolution;
(B)
pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, the Government of Japan 
("Japan") has agreed to provide Japanese funds in the form of a contribution (the "SJF 
Contribution") in support of programs of structural change, policy reform and 
institutional improvement in countries which are eligible for financing from the 
African Facility's resources and, by the agreement described in the exchange of notes 
dated November 20, 1985 and August 19, 1986, and in the further exchange of letters, 
both dated July 21, 1987, between Japan and IDA concerning the SJF Contribution, Japan 
and  IDA have agreed that IDA will act as Administrator of the SJF Contribution;
(C)
the Administrator has received a letter dated April 25, 1988 from the 
Beneficiary describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
Page  2
achieve structural adjustment of the Beneficiary's economy (the "Program") and 
declaring, inter alia, the Beneficiary's commitment to the execution of the same 
Program;
(D)
the Beneficiary has requested Japanese funds from the Administrator for 
the financing of urgently needed imports required during execution of the Program and 
the Administrator has determined that the provision of such funds in an amount of 
seven hundred million Japanese Yen (Y 700,000,000) (the "Japanese Grant") would be in 
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(E)
by an agreement of even date hereof between the beneficiary and IDA (the 
"Development Credit Agreement"), IDA is agreeing to provide additional assistance in 
the financing of the Project (as hereinafter defined) in an amount of sixty four 
million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 64,900,000) (the "Development Credit");
(F)
the Beneficiary intends to obtain from the Japan Overseas Economic 
Cooperation Fund ("OECF") a loan (the "OECF Loan") in an amount of one thousand seven 
hundred million Japanese Yen (Y 1,700,000,000), to assist in the financing of the 
Project (as hereinafter defined) under the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the "OECF Loan Agreement") to be entered into between the Beneficiary and 
OECF;
(G)
the Beneficiary has contracted from the Saudi Fund for Development a loan 
(the "Saudi Loan") in an amount of eleven million Saudi Rials (SR 11,000,000) to 
assist in the financing of the Project (as hereinafter defined) on terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the "Saudi Loan Agreement") dated February 7, 
1987 between the Beneficiary and the Saudi Fund for Development; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Japanese Grant to the Beneficiary upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the 
"General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", when used in the General Conditions, means the 
Administrator, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5) 
and 6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)
the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
when used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Japanese Grant Agreement', 
'Japanese Grant" and "Japanese Grant Account", respectively;
(c)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 
12.02 and 12.05 and the second sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted;
(d)
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include IDA acting in 
its own capacity;
(e)
in Section 2.01, paragraph 9 is amended to read: "'Project' means the 
imports and other activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese 
Grant pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Japanese Grant Agreement";
(f)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary;
(g)
the term "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade 
Classification, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986); and
Page  3
(h)
the term "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Japanese Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven hundred million Japanese Yen (Y 700,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Japanese Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Japanese Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese 
Grant. 
(b)
Withdrawals shall be made only on account o\1a expenditures for goods and 
services produced in the territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; and (ii) any 
country designated by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African Facility, as meeting 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c)
The Beneficiary shall for the purpose of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) above, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of Japan, suspend the Beneficiary's right to make 
withdrawals under this Agreement if an event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Administrator to suspend the Beneficiary's right to make withdrawals 
under the Development Credit Agreement (whether or not the full amount of the 
Development Credit has then been withdrawn), provided however that, notwithstanding 
any such request from Japan, the Administrator may in its discretion permit  
withdrawals under this Agreement in respect of expenditures for which the 
Administrator has entered into special commitments pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) BRB is designated as representative of the Beneficiary for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Beneficiary 
hereby entrusts BRB with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Japanese Grant and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to 
be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $500,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
Page  4
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said  Articles to "the Association" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Administrator of the Japanese Grant under this Agreement, all 
references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Japanese Grant, and 
all references to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Beneficiary.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement. have 
been fulfilled.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Beneficiary and of the 
Administrator thereunder shall terminate on December 31, 1990 or on the date of the 
disbursement of the balance of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant, whichever shall be 
the earlier.
Section 4.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Beneficiary; Addresses
Section 5.01. Except as provided in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Beneficiary responsible for planning is designated as representative of the 
Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Beneficiary:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 224
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN
5036 PRESIBU BDI
Bujumbura
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Japanese Funds
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as ADMINISTRATOR of the Japanese funds
   within the framework of the SPECIAL
   FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Japanese Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Japanese Grant may be withdrawn from the Japanese Grant Account for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program 
and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no, withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC, groups or 
sub-groups or any successor groups at sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Administrator by notice to the Beneficiary:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112          -                Alcoholic beverages
      121          -                Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
      122          -                Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                    containing tobacco substitute)
      525          -                Radio-active and associated materials
      667          -                Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                    stones, unworked or worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                                    fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                    irradiated, for nuclear reactors
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                    group metals (except watches and watch
                                    cases) and goldsmiths' wares
                                    (including set gems)
      971          -                Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                    ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Beneficiary or for goods or services 
Page  6
supplied from the territory of the Beneficiary;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals from the Japanese Grant Account in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of one hundred million Japanese Yen (Y 100,000,000) may be made on 
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after April 1, 
1988;
(d)
expenditures for goods and services procured under contracts costing less 
than ten thousand Dollars ($10,000) equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than IDA shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Japanese Grant after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Japanese 
Grant withdrawn from the Japanese Grant Account are in excess of an aggregate amount 
equivalent to one hundred seventy-five
million Japanese Yen (Y 175,000,000).
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and not commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to the Beneficiary or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Japanese Grant after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Japanese 
Grant withdrawn from the Japanese Grant
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of 
three hundred and fifty million Japanese Yen (Y 350,000,000), unless the Administrator 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the Beneficiary in the 
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 
3 to the Development Credit Agreement have been taken.
4.
If, after such exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the 
Administrator shall have given notice to the Beneficiary that the progress achieved 
and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Beneficiary shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, then the Administrator may, by notice to the Beneficiary, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
hundred fifty  million  Japanese  Yen (Y 250,000,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Japanese Grant and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Beneficiary for a deposit or 
Page  7
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Beneficiary, withdraw from the Japanese Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Beneficiary 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator requests for 
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. On the basis of such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the 
Japanese Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be 
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of 
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Japanese Grant Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Beneficiary out of the Special Account for which 
the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such 
request, such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Administrator when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be 
made by the Beneficiary directly from the 
Japanese Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant minus the 
amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Japanese Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Beneficiary. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that  the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Beneficiary shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the 
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Beneficiary has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Beneficiary shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Japanese Grant Account.
