Report No. PID8081
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Pension and Financial Market (@)
Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Finance
Project ID                       NIPE56087
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Implementing Agency
Address TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF THE
PRESIDENCY/INSS
Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia
Contact Person: Luis Duran
Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia
Tel: 505-228-7055
Fax: 505-228-6644
Email: duran@mipres.gob.ni
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 13, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         July 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 11, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government's first step towards a more sustainable pension system
includes a parametric reform of the current PAYG program designed to
increase contribution rates, raise the retirement age, standardize
eligibility requirements, reduce replacement rates, increase collection
efficiency and tighten eligibility for disability benefits. However, these
measures are only short-term fixes and will require ongoing increases in
contributions and cuts in benefits to keep the system balanced. To make
Nicaragua's pension system sustainable in the long run, the Government has
legislated the introduction of a mandatory, funded, defined contribution
pension system of privately managed individual accounts. As the returns on
savings contributed by workers who are among the lifetime poor could not
be sufficient to provide them with adequate income in their old age, the
Government's reform includes guaranteeing a minimum level of pension
benefits to these workers upon retirement. The Government is committed to
implementing a reform that is fair and can be justified for its
distributional impact, both upon current and future workers, and across
and within generations of Nicaraguan workers. The minimum pension
guarantee will therefore be low enough, the contribution rate high and
vesting period long enough to avoid a large unfunded future liability,
strategic evasion, or significant leakage of old-age income transfers to
the non-poor. Increasing coverage among evading formal sector employees
and making the pension system open and attractive to informal and
own-account workers by providing incentives and the opportunity for all
workers to enroll in the pension plan are key goals in the Government's
pension reform strategy.    Nicaragua's financial sector is still in the
very nascent stages of development and the options for long-term
investment in productive and relatively secure income-bearing assets are



extremely limited. Since 1991, the GON has made significant progress in
eliminating or downsizing state-owned financial sector institutions, and
introducing and strengthening banking sector supervision and regulation.
Many weaknesses in the legal and institutional framework for financial
sector activities remain, however. Through the Pension and Financial
MarketReform TA, the Government intends to facilitate the development of
new capital and insurance institutions and instruments, and rules for
private sector provision of pension products, which are essential to the
sustainability of a funded pension system and are likely to encourage
savings and growth in the economy as a whole. A strong banking sector is
of particular importance during the early years of the pension reform
becaquse a large portion of the financial resources will be channeled
through the banking system. To ensure the safety of these funds the
project will support the strengthening of banking supervision and
inspections. The project will also assist Government efforts to carry out
complementary reforms to ensure the sustainability of the pension system
and strengthen the financial sector.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical
Assistance Project is to support the Government's plan to create a more
equitable and sustainable system of old-age income security for Nicaraguan
workers. Specifically, the Pension and Financial Market Reform TA will
design and implement: i) parametric changes to the pay-as-you-go (PAYG)
pension system; ii) a mandatory, funded, defined contribution pension
system of privately managed individual pension accounts; iii) a financing
plan for the recognition of acquired rights under the PAYG; and iv) a
small, targeted public pension guarantee for lifetime poor contributors.
The Pension and Financial Market Reform TA will also develop the
institutional capacity to effectively regulate and supervise the new
system; carry out a public information campaign; and develop insurance and
capital market instruments, strengthen financial market institutions and
rules for private sector provision of pension products.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In the Latin America Region, the World Bank Group has developed strong
internal capacity in helping borrower countries to design and implement
structural pension system reforms; the World Bank Group has been a major
source of financial and technical assistance for the reform programs
adopted in six countries over the last decade. The Nicaragua Pension and
Financial Markets Reform TA brings this experience to bear with team
members from across the institution, including DEC, FPSI and HD.
4. Description
The Pension System Reform component will include the following activities:
i) new parameters for PAYG system;
ii) calculation of acquired rights;
iii) implement funded pillar;
iv) develop and update financing plan;
v) launch public awareness campaign and consultation process;
vi) build institutional capacity of INSS.
Pension System Supervision:
i) define organizational structure;
-2-



ii) build supervisory capacity.
Financial Markets Development:
i) develop financial market instruments for pension fund investment;
ii) establish rules for private sector provision of pension insurance
products;
iii) strengthen financial sector institutions.
Project Implementation Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government      2.6
IBRD
IDA             8
Total Project
Cost             10.6
6. Implementation
The project team has been working closely with the Pension Reform
Technical Commission (CREPEN), the Social Security Institute (INSS), the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the Central Bank, the Ministry of
Finance and the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions
(SBIF) on the preparation of the TA, with technical inputs from external
consultants. The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency is in charge of
the overall design and implementation of the pension reform, in
coordination with the other agencies listed above, and will be the
implementing agency of the TA. A small Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) has
been created to implement the TA under the supervision of a Steering
Committee, which will have two members: the Technical Secretary of the
Presidency and the Executive President of INSS. The PCU would be
responsible for overall project management, monitoring, and coordination
and will be physically located in the INSS building; an Implementation
Agreement will be signed between INSS and the Government prior to Credit
effectiveness. In addition, an Implentation Agreement will be signed
between the SBIF and the Technical Secretariat which outlines
implementation responsibilities for the Financial Markets Development
component. Detailed Terms of Reference and required qualifications for PCU
personnel, including the Project Manager, Financial Manager/Accountant and
Procurement Specialist, were finalized with the input of IDA's financial
management and procurement specialists and are presented in Annex 11. The
Pension Reform and Financial Markets TA Project Manager is directly
accountable to the Steering Committee. The PCU will be responsible for
conducting annual project reviews, including audited financial statements
of the project, as well as preparing periodic reports on actual
performance against agreed performance indicators, and institutional
components of project implementation. To accelerate project
implementation, the Borrower has identified the Project Manager, and the
Procurement and Financial Management specialists of the PCU, who will be
contracted prior to Credit effectiveness. To support implementation of the
new pension law, the Borrower will also contract consultant services for
technical work and public information before Credit signing. The
Financial Management Assessment indicated that the PCU had yet to put in
place the staff, internal controls, and administrative procedures for the
management of the project. The Financial Management and Procurement Action
- 3-



Plan presented in Annex 11 outlines the key activities and time frame for
recruiting PCU staff and establishing a financial management system (FMS)
that will provide effective financial, procurement and disbursement
reporting and monitoring. Since the financial management and procurement
assessments were made, PCU staff have been recruited and are carrying out
the activities outlined in the financial management and procurement Action
Plan. It has been agreed that when the PCU and the FMS are completely
operational, the Financial Management Capacity Assessment will be
conducted again to certify that the unit's system meets IDA requirements
prior to project effectiveness. It is expected that the credit will start
disbursing using traditional disbursement procedures and convert to
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in accordance with the LACI at
the end of the first year of project implementation. A Procurement
Capacity Assessment established that there is very limited institutional
capacity to manage procurement processes financed under the project, and
the overall procurement risk assessment was rated as "high." TORs for the
PCU personnel have been developed and are attached to the Financial
Management and Procurement Action Plan presented in Annex 11, which
establishes the time frame and qualifications for the Procurement Officer
to be hired. The specific procurement capacity issues identified in the
Assessment are outlined in Annex 6. Key activities and completion dates
for the recruitment of the PCU staff and required international
procurement specialist and preparation of the operations manual including
the detailed procurement procedures are presented in Annex 11.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the reforms to be prepared by the TA will depend in
large part upon the political support for them among a broad spectrum of
Government policy-makers, including members of the opposition political
party and among the public in general. Wide dissemination of information
on an on-going basis and continued consultation with key decision-makers
will be required to obtain this support. Weak institutional capacity has
constrained Nicaragua's development for a long time and will not be
remedied in the short term. Regulatory agencies are breaking new ground in
a country with little tradition of independent regulation. Strengthening
pension system institutions will be required for the sustainability of the
reform. Inadequate securities markets pose substantial constraints to the
development of instruments for pension fund investment and will require
careful planning and sequencing of appropriate reform measures.
Macroeconomic issues are also of particular relevance for the
sustainability of the reform. A speedier reform will certainly benefit
the country but will require a substantial financing effort.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This TA project will assist the Government in designing a quality reform
and strengthening internal capacity to implement the new system. TA design
benefited from ESW that was undertaken to identify the main issues and
options to address these issues. Recent IDA experience in Nicaragua and
elsewhere underscores the need to build borrower capacity, ownership and
institutional infrastructure in support of major structural reforms.
Because passage of legislation alone will not develop an enabling
environment for the reform, it is also necessary to focus a great deal of
attention on strengthening the awareness of the public in regards to the
reform via a public awareness campaign. The scope of the TA has also been
limited to focus narrowly on pension and selected financial sector
-4 -



reforms, rather than addressing technical and institutional financial
market development issues more broadly, as was considered, to focus
policy-makers on a set of well defined objectives and outcomes. Highly
qualified external support has been engaged by the Government for
preparation of the reform and help in defining its technical assistance
needs, funded through a PHRD grant.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No negative environmental impact expected.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hermann A. Von Gersdorff
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
- 5-



