Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19680 NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.8 MILLION (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR THE
PENSION AND FINANCIAL MARKET REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
April 13, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Central America
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CUtRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 4/13/00)
Currency Unit = Cordobas
I Cordoba= US$ 0.0827
US$ I = 12.29 C6rdobas
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP          Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones (Pension Fund Manager)
CREPEN       Comisi6n para la Reforma de Pensiones de Nicaragua (Pension Reform
Technical Commission)
DB           Defined Benefit
DC           Defined Contribution
EAP          Economically Active Population
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FMS          Financial Management System
FPSI         Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector
GON          Government of Nicaragua
HD           Human Development Sector
IDA          International Development Association
IDB MIF    Inter-American Development Bank Multilateral Investment Facility
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INSS         Instituto Nicaraguense de Seguro Social (Nicaraguan Social Security Institute)
IVM          Invalidez, Vejez y Muerte (Old Age, Disability and Survivor's Insurance)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PAYG         Pay-as-you-go
PCU/UCP    Project Coordinating Unit/Unidad Coordinadora de Projecto
PHRD         Policy and Human Development Resources Fund
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMRs         Project Monitoring Reports
SBIF         Superintendencia de Bancos y Otras Instituciones Financieras (Superintendency
of Banks and Other Financial Institutions)
SC           Steering Committee
SOE          Statement of Expenses
TAC          Technical Assistance Credit
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Henrnann A. von Gersdorff



NICARAGUA
PENSION AND FINANCIAL MARKET REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
CONTENTS
A. Project Developmcnt Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key perfomnance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issucs and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project                     5
3. Benefits and target population                                                     6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      6
D. Project Rationale
I. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            a
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         9
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           9
2. Financial                                                                          10
3. Technical                                                                          10
4. Institutional                                                                      10
5. Social                                                                            I1l
6. Environment                                                                        I 1
7. Participatory Approach                                                             11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    12
2. Critical-risks                                                                     12
3.- Possible controversial aspects                                                    13



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              13
2. Other                                                                                13
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            14
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           14
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            15
Annex 2: Project Dcscription                                                               I 
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           20
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                               21
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 22
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         23
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       28
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     29
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    30
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              32
Annex I1: Summary Financial Management and Procurement Action Plan                         34
MAP(S)



NICARAGUA
Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFR
Date: April 13, 2000                               Team Leader: Hennann A. Von Gersdorff
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo      Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P056087                                Sector(s): FY -Other Finance
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): PRIVATE SECTOR
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan         IZ Credit       El Grant         Ei Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$8.0 (SDR 5.8 million)
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard: a variable
rate between 0 and 0.5% of the
undisbursed credit balance set annually
by the Executive Directors of IDA.
Fkia       PaX     So&C-e                                      ocjal ?  -T.
Govemment                                                        2.60            0.00           2.60
IBRD
IDA                                                              1.60            6.40           8.00
Total:                                                           4.20            6.40          10.60
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Responsible agency: TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF THE PRESIDENCY/INSS
Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia
Contact Person: Luis Dur6n
Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia
Tel: 505-228-7055                 Fax: 505-228-6644                  Email: duran(@mipres.gob.ni
Other Agency(ies):
Instituto Nicaragiiense de Seguridad Social
Contact Person: Martin Aguado
Presidente Ejecutivo
Tel: 505-882-0021               Fax: 505-249-0418                 Email: agallegosainss.org.ni
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
:;FY-            2.           2002         2V03        2004:t :. 
Annual      2.0           2.0          2.0         2.0
Cumulative     2.0           4.0          6.0         8.0
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/29/2000  Expected closing date:  02/28/2004
OCS PAD F-n Rv Ma  2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Project is to
support the Government's plan to create a more equitable and sustainable system of old-age income security
for Nicaraguan workers. Specifically, the Pension and Financial Market Reform TA will design and
implement: i) parametric changes to the pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension system; ii) a mandatory, funded,
defined contribution pension system of privately managed individual pension accounts; iii) a financing plan
for the recognition of acquired rights under the PAYG; and iv) a small, targeted public pension guarantee
for lifetime poor contributors. The Pension and Financial Market Refomn TA will also develop the
institutional capacity to effectively regulate and supervise the new system; carry out a public information
campaign; and develop insurance and capital market instruments, strengthen financial market institutions
and rules for private sector provision of pension products.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Improvements in the targeting of public pension payments and the actuarial performance of the
pension system are key among the outcomes which the Pension and Financial Market Reform TA aims to
achieve. Performance indicators for these outcomes include measures of the net present value of public
pension debt, which is expected to shrink by at least 33%, and agreement upon legislation enabling the
funded, privately managed pension system. The establishment and operation of the pension supervisory
entity is also key among TA performance indicators. The ultimate performance indicators, adequate and
sustainable pensions, is too far into the future to provide a meaningful indicator during the project's time
horizon.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document nurber: 17496                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/98
The Government of Nicaragua (GON) has committed to an ambitious strategy for completing its
transition from a centrally planned to a peaceful and sustainable market economy, and for securing real
gains in the standard of living for the majority of the population. Sound macro-management, effective
social protection policies and the development of a dynamic private sector are key elements of this strategy.
The Pension and Financial MarketReforn TA project aims to assist the Govemment in implementing
pension system reforms in direct support of core Country Assistance Strategy goals: reducing long term
fiscal imbalances, strengthening the financial sector, spurring private sector led growth and protecting the
poor.
The cost level and the perverse distributional effects of Nicaragua's current system of old age
security are untenable given the Government's commitment to sustainable long-term debt reduction and
poverty alleviation. Nicaragua's national pension system currently consists of a publicly managed
pay-as-you-go defined benefit (DB) plan for Old Age, Disability, and Survivors Insurance (IVM).
Contributions to the IVM system are mandatory for salaried workers and voluntary for independent
workers. Mandatory contributions to the IVM system are only 5.5% of the average weekly salary category,
which puts Nicaragua on the lowest tier of payroll taxes for pensions in Latin America. The low level of
contributions is not consistent with the pension benefit formula. That is, the PAYG system offers defined
benefits (in Nicaragua, the average replacement rate is 56%) which are not actuarially related to
contributions. This has resulted in a financially unsustainable system, despite its low coverage.
Of an estimated economically active population (EAP) of 1,695,400 (34.4% of the total
-2 -



population), in 1999 only 864,654 (or 51% of the EAP) hold ajob in the formal sector of the economy and
only 288,743 of these (or 17% of the EAP) contribute to the social security system on a regular basis.
Workers and employers perceive contributions as a tax instead of the pre-payment for a future benefit.
The system suffers from high rates of evasion, low coverage and severe institutional and
administrative weaknesses (reflected in administrative costs equivalent to 13% of total pension expenses)
that are accelerating the financial collapse of the PAYG system. Nicaragua's system has suffered cash
deficits since 1997 and preliminary calculations for 1999 show an estimated negative current balance
(revenues minus expenditures) of 80 million Cordobas (US$6.4 million). To maintain the current system
the government will have to make budget transfers that will continue to rise and could reach 10-15% of
annual GDP in the medium term. To avoid the system's bankruptcy and a default on its obligations, current
payroll taxes would have to be increased and/or benefits reduced in the very short term, neither measure
being socially or politically desirable.
Finally, the Nicaraguan pension system administered by Nicaragua's Social Security Institute
(INSS) has been mandated by the GON to.pay 37,264 non-contributive pensions in 1999 (approximately
45% of the pefisions paid by INSS each year) to ex-combatants, other groups affected by the civil war and
those who have provided service to the State, which are partially financed with a contribution of 1.5% of
worker salaries.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Govemment's first step towards a more sustainable pension system includes a parametric
reform of the current PAYG program designed to increase contribution rates, raise the retirement age,
standardize eligibility requirements, reduce replacement rates, increase collection efficiency and tighten
eligibility for disability benefits. However, these measures are only short-term fixes and will require
ongoing increases in contributions and cuts in benefits to keep the system balanced. To make Nicaragua's
pension system sustainable in the long run, the Govemment has legislated the introduction of a mandatory,
funded, defined contribution pension system of privately managed individual accounts.
As the retums on savings contributed by workers who are among the lifetime poor could not be
sufficient to provide them with adequate income in their old age, the Govenmment's reform includes
guaranteeing a minimum level of pension benefits to these workers upon retirement. The Govemment is
committed to implementing a reform that is fair and can be justified for its distributional impact, both upon
current and future workers, and across and within generations of Nicaraguan workers. The minimum
pension guarantee will therefore be low enough, the contribution rate high and vesting period long enough
to avoid a large unfunded future liability, strategic evasion, or significant leakage of old-age income
transfers to the non-poor. Increasing coverage among evading formal sector employees and making the
pension system open and attractive to informal and own-account workers by providing incentives and the
opportunity for all workers to enroll in the pension plan are key goals in the Government's pension reform
strategy.
Nicaragua's financial sector is still in the very nascent stages of development and the options for
long-term investment in productive and relatively secure income-bearing assets are extremely limited. Since
1991, the GON has made significant progress in eliminating or downsizing state-owned financial sector
institutions, and introducing and strengthening banking sector supervision and regulation. Many
weaknesses in the legal and institutional framework for financial sector activities remain, however.
Through the Pension and Financial MarketReform TA, the Govemment intends to facilitate the
development of new capital and insurance institutions and instruments, and rules for private sector
provision of pension products, which are essential to the sustainability of a funded pension system and are
likely to encourage savings and growth in the economy as a whole. A strong banking sector is of particular
importance during the early years of the pension reforrn becaquse a large portion of the financial resources
will be channeled through the banking system. To ensure the safety of these funds the project will support
-3 -



the strengthening of banking supervision and inspections. The p'roject will also assist Government efforts to
carry out complementary reforms to ensure the sustainability of the pension system and strengthen the
financial sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Nicaragua's PAYG pension system is not sustainable due to the gap between benefits and
contributions, high administrative costs and high rates of evasion. At the samne time, the system is not
attractive to workers because: i) despite the disassociation between contributions and benefits, the pensions
they are eligible to receive are still very low and uncertain; ii) the system perpetuates inter- and
intra-generational inequalities; iii) the PAYG does not engender a sense of ownership among enrollees as
contributions are perceived as a tax; iv) the institutional weaknesses of INSS leads to poor performance
with respect to record keeping, investments, and the pension calculations and payment of pension benefits.
The pension reform prgram will implement a parametric reform of the current PAYG pension
system, acknowledge worker's rights acquired under the PAYG, and replace it with a mandatory, funded,
defined contribution pension system of individual accounts administered by private pension fund
management companies. The project will help to implement the Govemment's decision to carry out a full
reforrn of the pension system to protect future fiscal solvency, decrease long-term debt and provide
sustainable old-age income security for Nicaraguan workers.
A number of strategic decisions, including the decision not to allow workers to switch back and
forth between the'new pension system and-the old PAYG--which will reduce administrative costs and fiscal
uncertainty around future pension obligations--were made explicit in the comprehensive pension reform law
which was approved by Congress on March 15, 2000. The decision to make participation in thefunded
pension system mandatory was taken to ensure that workers save sufficiently for retirement during their
most productive working years. The choice of a defined contribution rather than defined benefit plan was
made to avoid large unintended inter- or intra-generational transfers between workers either inside or
outside of the system. Defining contributions and explicitly linking them with future benefits also
discourages evasion, informality, early retirement and other labor market distortions, as contributions are
no longer perceived as a tax but as a payment for future benefits.
The strategic choice to establish a minimum retirement income guaranteed by the Government to
workers enrolled in the pension system was made to provide poorer workers who are willing and able to
contribute pension savings consistently over time with an old age income safety net- one that does not
exclude poorer workers or largely transfer public resources to the non-poor.
The Pension and Financial MarketReform TA project will glep design and implement a system of
privately rather than publicly managed pension funds to maximize the likelihood that upon retirement,
contributors have access to their accumulated reserves and receive an adequate rate of return on savings.
This decision was taken because competitive, privately managed funds have comparative advantages over
the govemment in administering accounts and choosing the best risk-yield combinations and are less
susceptible to political manipulation.
The TA will support an analysis of the legal, institutional and transactional underpinnings of
Nicaragua's capital and insurance markets.to determine essential reforms for implementing the new pension
system, particularly given the limitation of Nicaragua's very smail market for financial instruments. The
choice was made to plan for implementation of the funded system while putting necessary capital and
insurance market infrastructure in place and establishing the rules for private provision of pension
products, rather than postponing the reform until these structures and instruments are in place, to take
advantage of the synergies arising from the demand for new savings instruments by the pension funds.
- 4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Pension System Reform          SI - Social         3.50       33.0      3.00      37.5
component will include the following    Insurance
activities:
i) new parameters for PAYG system;
ii) calculation of acquired rights;
iii) implement funded pillar;
iv) develop and update financing plan;
v) launch public awareness campaign
and consultation process;
vi) build institutional capacity of
INSS.
Pension System Supervision:        BB - Public         2.60       24.5      1.00       12.5
i) define organizational structure;  Sector
ii) build supervisory capacity.    Management
Financial Markets Development:     FS - Financial      3.70       34.9      3.50      43.7
i) develop financial market instruments  Sector
for pension fund investment;       Development
ii) establish rules for private sector
provision of pension insurance
products;
iii) strengthen financial sector
institutions.
Project Implementation Unit                            0.80        7.5      0.50       6.2
Total Project Costs                   10.60      100.0      8.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    10.60     100.0       8.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key sector issues will be addressed by the following policy and institutional reforms:
*   Parametric reform of the PAYG system.
* Legislation and regulations enabling a mandatory, funded, defined contribution system of privately
managed individual accounts.
* Establishment of entity to regulate and supervise new pension system.
* Legal and normative changes to insurance and financial markets framework, and rules for private
-5 -



provision of pension products.
*   Strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory capacity for banks and other financial institutions.
3. Benefits and target population:
Nicaragua's working population-- including formal sector, salaried employees and the majority of
informal workers-- are the target population of the pension and financial market reforms which the TA
project will hefp to design and implement. Workers enrolled in the pension system will benefit from the
ownership of their capitalized contributions and greater certainty of receiving future pension benefits (and
avoiding old-age poverty) at acceptable wage replacement rates. Workers who are not enrolled in the
current pension system will have access to the new system and incentives to contribute towards retirement
benefits consistently over their working lives. The lifetime poor will have incentives to contribute for the
assurance of a guaranteed source of income in their old age. In addition to increasing coverage of old-age
income protection, the funded, defined contribution system will have positive spill-over effects on society as
a whole; by reducing distortionary labor taxes, facilitating the growth of employment and reducing the
likelihood of future fiscal imbalances. Stronger financial sector institutions and markets will also increase
the safety of deposits and are likely to encourage additional savings.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project teain has been working closely with the Pension Reform Technical Commission
(CREPEN), the Social Security Institute (INSS), the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, the Central
Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions (SBIF)
on the preparation of the TA, with technical inputs from extemal consultants. The Technical Secretariat of
the Presidency is in charge of the overall design and implementation of the pension reform, in coordination
with the other agencies listed above, and will be the implementing agency of the TA. A small Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been created to implement the TA under the supervision of a Steering
Committee, which will have two members: the Technical Secretary of the Presidency and the E-xecutive
President of INSS. The PCU would be responsible for overall project management, monitoring, and
coordination and will be physically located in the INSS building; an Implementation Agreement will be
signed between INSS and the Govemment prior to Credit effectiveness. In addition, an Implementation
Agreement will be signed between the SBIF and the Technical Secretariat which outlines implementation
responsibilities for the Financial Markets Development component.
Detailed Terms of Reference and required qualifications for PCU personnel, including the Project
Manager, Financial Manager/Accountant and Procurement Specialist, were finalized with the input of
IDA's financial management and procurement specialists and are presented in Annex 11. The Pension
Reformn and Financial Markets TA Project Manager is directly accountable to the Steering Committee. The
PCU will be responsible for conducting annual project reviews, including audited financial statements of
the project, as well as preparing periodic reports on actual performance against agreed performance
indicators, and institutional components of project implementation. To accelerate project implementation,
the Borrower has identified the Project Manager, and the Procurement and Financial Management
specialists of the PCU, who will be contracted prior to Credit effectiveness. To support implementation of
the new pension law, the Borrower will also contract consultant services for technical work and public
information before Credit signing.
The Financial Management Assessment indicated that the PCU had yet to put in place the staff,
internal controls, and administrative procedures for the management of the project. The Financial
Management and Procurement Action Plan presented in Annex 11 outlines the key activities and time frame
for recruiting PCU staff and establishing a.financial management system (FMS) that will provide effective
financial, procurement and disbursement reporting and monitoring. Since the financial management and
procurement assessments were made, PCU staff have been recruited and are carrying out the activities
-6 -



outlined in the financial management and procurement Action Plan. It has been agreed that wheni the PCU
and the FMS are completely operational, the Financial Management Capacity Assessment will be
conducted again to certify that the unit's system meets IDA requirements prior to project effectiveness. It is
expected that the credit will start disbursing using traditional disbursement procedures and convert to
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in accordance with the LACI at the end of the first year of
project implementation.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment established that there is very limited institutional capacity to
manage procurement processes financed under the project, and the overall procurement risk assessment was
rated as "high." TORs for the PCU personnel have been developed and are attached to the Financial
Management and Procurement Action Plan presented in Annex 11, which establishes the time frame and
qualifications for the Procurement Officer to be hired. The specific procurement capacity issues identified
in the Assessment are outlined in Annex 6. Key activities and completion dates for the recruitment of the
PCU staff and required international procurement specialist and preparation of the operations manual
including the detailed procurement procedures are presented in Annex 11.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The GON has made pension reform one of the main components of its reform agenda and has
requested IDA support to help finance the design and transition to a funded pension system. In response to
the Government's request for funding the IDA decided to provide this support through: i) ESW to establish
a diagnostic and action plan; ii) a program of Technical Assistance to help prepare and begin the
implementation of their pension reform; and iii) an adjustment operation to help finance the transition to the
new pension system.
The ESW, which has been finalized and is under grey cover, was conducted in parallel with TA
preparation to help shape the reform program design. The Pension and Financial Markets Reform TA
Project will address institutional weaknesses and build borrower capacity to fully implement the pension
reform and strengthen the financial sector. The objectives of the TA include the strengthening of existing
pension institutions and facilitation of financial market development to increase the availability of savings
products, so that the TA program provides benefits as a stand-alone operation even in the event that the
implementation of the reform is delayed or rejected politically. The law has been reviewed by both the IMF
and the IDA and has been found satisfactory. Currently, an adjustment operation is planned to finance part
of the fiscal gap created by the reform.
The alternative of a single adjustment operation was rejected given the current weaknesses of
Government institutions in Nicaragua and best practice experience. To focus on the core institutional and
policy issues required for a successful pension reform, the option of designing a TA that would address
financial market development issues more broadly was also rejected. The TA will address only selected
financial sector issues because IDA is currently supervising a Financial Sector Adjustment operation in
Nicaragua which focuses on reform of the banking scctor, and the IDB is also financing on-going financial
and capital markets reform programs. An IDB operation of support to the pension reform supervision has
been developed and will be carried out in conjunction with the Pension and Financial Markets Reform TA
-7 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I         .              Latest Supervision
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Banking sector liberalization,     Financial Sector Adjustment       S              S
supervision and regulatory reform.  (on-going)
Institutional capacity, service delivery  Second Health Sector       S              S
and management systems of the      Modernization
Ministry of Health.                (on-going)
Implementation of pension reform.  Pension Reform Adjustment
(planned for end FY2002)
Integrated financial management,   Public Sector Financial
institutional restructuring.       Management TA
(planned for FY2000)
Financial management, civil service,   Institutional Development     S              S
institutional restructuring.       Credit
(on-going)
Other development agencies
IDB: Capital Markets Development    Capital Markets Modernization
Program
IDB: Financial Sector Refonn       Third Financial Markets
Reform Program
IDB-MIF: Oversight of new pension   Pension System Supervision
system                             Program
IPDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This TA project will assist the Govemment in designing a quality reform and strengthening intemal
capacity to implement the new system. TA design benefited from ESW that was undertaken to identify the
main issues and options to address these issues. Recent IDA experience in Nicaragua and elsewhere
underscores the need to build borrower capacity, ownership and institutional infrastructure in support of
major structural reforms. Because passage of legislation alone will not develop an enabling environment for
the reform, it is also necessary to focus a great deal of attention on strengthening the awareness of the
public in regards to the reform via a public awareness campaign.
The scope of the TA has also been limited to focus narrowly on pension and selected financial
sector reforms, rather than addressing technical and institutional financial market development issues more
- 8 -



broadly, as was considered, to focus policy-makers on a set of well defined objectives and outcomes.
Highly qualified extemal support has been engaged by the Govemment for preparation of the reform and
help in defining its technical assistance needs, funded through a PHRD grant.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Aleman administration, including the President and other Govemment leaders have
consistently expressed commitment to a major structural reform of Nicaragua's pension program. President
Aleman appointed the Technical Secretary of the Presidency as the head of the reform effort. A
Ministerial Commission was also formned including the Minister of Finance, the Executive President of
INSS and the President of the Central Bank to ensure the participation of key decision-makers in the reform
process. In addition, in March 1998 a small Technical Commission (CREPEN) was created in the INSS to
carry out technical work on the design of the reform and serve as counterpart for extemal consultants. The
CREPEN will also provide the core of the team that will implement the reform. Legislation creating the
new funded pension system has been approved by Congress, as committed by the Govemment in its Letter
of Intention and Memorandum of Economic Policy submitted to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for
the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The IMF will monitor pension reform advances as a
progress indicator for the country's overall economic program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In the Latin America Region, the World Bank Group has developed strong internal capacity in
helping borrower countries to design and implement structural pension system reforms; the World Bank
Group has been a major source of financial and technical assistance for the reform prograns adopted in six
countries over the last decade. The Nicaragua Pension and Financial Markets Reform TA brings this
experience to bear with team members from across the institution, including DEC, FPSI and HD.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The project's institution building features make it not amenable to the calculation of rates of return.
Although most of the benefits are indirect, there are some indications of the substantial benefits of the
project in relation to its costs. An important benefit of the project will be the difference in the quality of the
pension reform that it helps to achieve; because of the magnitude of the resources and the number of
workers involved, small differences can be very important. Although the expected reduction in the net
present value of the liabilities of the Government's pension system, which should be in excess of US$ 100
million, would be a result of the pension reform itself and not of the TA directly, these savings are among
benefits that can be expected from a successful reform design and implementation.
The approach of the project to use a large number of specialized consultants instead of a single
overall consultant contract proved the most cost efficient approach to TA implementation given the
possibility of a shifting time frame and potential delays in implementing elements of the reform. Hiring of
consultants and procurement of equipment can be flexibly adjusted to these changes without incurring in
large fixed expenditures.
The costs of the TA are marginal relative to the expected reduction of the implicit public debt
burden and fiscal outlays required to finance on-going deficits of the current PAYG system. In addition to
the longer term fiscal benefits of a financially sustainable funded pension system, the reforms to be
-.9-



supported by the TA will contribute in general to a more stable macroeconomic environment, effective
social protection policies and the development of a dynamic private sector which are likely to produce real
economic benefits for large segments of the Nicaraguan population.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N/A, see E. 1
Fiscal Impact:
The GON, together with the IMF, have developed a financing plan for the transition to the new
pension system. Since estimates of financing requirements require on-going revisions, the TA will
strengthen local capacity to calculate the financial requirements of the transition to a funded system,
estimate the recurrent costs of the new pension plan, and develop a viable plan to finance the adjustment
from the unsustainable PAYG to the funded pension system. Counterpart funds from the Government for
the TA project have been identified. The on-going operations of the Pension Superintendency to be
established under the TA will be auto-financed through regulatory fees and will not rely on general budget
transfers after the- new system is fully operational. Experience from other small countries which have
undertaken similar reforms lead to estimated supervision cost of about US$1 million per year.
3. Technical:
Technical issues surrounding the method of calculating and transferring rights acquired under the
PAYG system and separation of disability and survivorship accounts mainly involve problems of
infornation and are being addressed as part of the TA through careful auditing and account reconstruction
activities, and through the purchase and installation of computer database systems and training of
personnel.
The overall design plan of the reform conforms to best practice in pension reform according to the
specific characteristics of the country. The design of the TA project also reflects best practice in building
institutional capacity and ownership of the reform, and laying the groundwork for successful
implementation to be financed by a follow-up adjustment operation.
Designing and implementing the framework for regulating and supervising the new pension system
will require technical inputs for highly specialized extemal specialists, which will be financed in part from
the TA and Government counterpart funding, but also through the assistance of the IDB MIF, which is
preparing a parallel program of support for this component in particular.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
An international consultant will be hired by the Government to work with the Steering Committe
and be in charge of coordinating TA and related pension reform activities, including the preparation of
action plans and detailed budgets for each of the TA components, coordination of the activities of the
consultants to be contracted, and preparing implementation progress reports.
b. Project management:
The PCU will have a Project Manager, a Financial Manager/Accountant and Procurement
Specialist. Both the Financial Manager and the Procurement Specialist will initially be assisted by
international consultants as required. The PCU will also be supported by staff and systems of an existing
PCU in the INSS. An accounting firm will be selected as project auditor. The project unit will produce and
- 10-



submit to the Bank a Project Monitoring Report on a quarterly basis.
5. Social:
The fuill distributional impact of the parametric reform and options for the valuation and
recognition of rights acquired under the current PAYG system will be assessed during project
implementation. The distributional impact will be estimated before the adjustment operation. This
assessment will determine who will win and lose relatively how much from different options of: i)
recognizing acquired rights of current PAYG enrollees; and ii) the plan to transition workers to the new
defined contribution system, so that the Government can choose those options which best promote its goals
of faimess both to current and future enrollees, and to workers who are outside the pension system.
Given the current system's deficit and the Government's inability to meet PAYG obligations to
future retirees, a successful reform will benefit both those workers who stay in the PAYG system or receive
acquired rights and those who transfer or join the DC system, by providing them with much greater
certainty of receiving old-age income protection. Those affiliates who stay in the PAYG system will have
greater assurance of receiving pension benefits upon the completion of the parametric reform, which will
improve the financial position of the system. Workers who join the funded pension system will benefit from
the ownership of their pension savings and improved risk-yield combinations that independent private fund
managers are much more likely than the Government to produce on their individual retirement accounts.
Workers who are outside the pension system are expected to benefit from the reformn as they will have
access to the new secure, funded system and incentives to contribute to personal retirement savings
accounts. General Government revenues will no longer fund pension benefits for the non-poor and can be
better allocated for social safety nets or other more socially beneficial and rational purposes.
6. Environmental assessment:             EnVironment Category: C
No negative environmental impact expected.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Civil servants employed by the Government account for the majority of PAYG enrollees.
Consultations about the reform have been made with this group of stakeholders, though the effects of the
complete pension reform upon all enrollees will be assessed and more clearly signaled through education
and promotion efforts included in the TA, as these workers will be the most immediately and directly
affected by the reforms. The importance of including these groups in the consultation process of the reform
is reflected in TA component activities, which include seminars and workshops directed specifically toward
this group stakeholders, as well as a public information campaign.
The need for pension reformn and basic elements of the reform design have been disseminated to the
public via Government education and outreach activities with members of the television, print and radio
media. Meetings have also been held with private sector enterprises, private sector organizations (such as
COSEP) and most workers' unions to inform thmese groups about the reform. In addition, Congress
organized a seminar with pension experts from the region to discuss the proposed reform and, educate and
answer questions from members of all political affiliations and the trade unions. The approved pension law
takes into account the comments made by, and the agreements reached (through negotiation) with, the
groups mentioned above and by labor unions and political parties. TA design has been adjusted-to reflect
the participation of these groups.
- 11 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Because the system has diffuse benefits and will provide all workers with the opportunity to
participate in the system and have equal access to the minimum pension guarantee, the labor force in
general must be educated about its basic features and benefits through widespread communications
campaigns, which are included among the activities to be financed by the Pension and Financial Markets
Reform TA.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the reforms to be prepared by the TA will depend in large part upon the
political support for them among a broad spectrum of Govemment policy-makers, including members of
the opposition political party and among the public in general. Wide dissemination of information on an
on-going basis and continued consultation with key decision-makers will be required to obtain this support.
Weak institutional capacity has constrained Nicaragua's development for a long time and will not be
remedied in the short tern. Regulatory agencies are breaking new ground in a country with little tradition of
independent regulation. Strengthening pension system institutions will be required for the sustainability of
the reform. Inadequate securities markets pose substantial constraints to the development of instruments for
pension fund investment and will require careful planning and sequencing of appropriate reform measures.
Macroeconomic issues are also of particular relevance for the sustainability of the reform. A speedier
reform will certainly benefit the country but will require a substantial financing effort.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I):
IN| W   i  _Ris                        Risk Rating ::  :     RiskMinimizatiMeare 0 -  i
From Outputs to Objective
Policy makers do not agree on pension      N         Extensive dialogue and day-to-day coordination
system reform.                                       with the authorities in all aspects of project
design and implementation.
Lack of Congressional support for          N         Information campaign and participation in
pension reform.                                      drafting law.
Inadequate development of financial        M         On-going Financial Sector Adjustment
markets; restrictions on entry into                  operation; TA program and IDB capital markets
insurance industry.                                  development program.
Inadequate staffing and funding of         M         Close collaboration with IDB and contact with
supervisory agencies.                                other donors.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in contracting of Project           M         Project Implementation Unit staff and
Implementation Unit staff.                           consultants identified.
Lack of adequate counterpart funding.      M         Requirements included in budget law.
- 12-



Turnover of Government officials in         M         Expanding technical capacity of Government
charge of pension reform design and                   team in charge of reform.
implementation.
Government is unwilling to approve          N         On-going policy dialogue and ESW.
parametric changes to PAYG, and adopt
legal and regulatory framework for
funded pension system.
Lack of support from financial              M         Continuing consultations, TA program and
community for proposed changes to                    IMF's Technical Assistance.
develop and strengthen the financial
sector.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The TA project faces two main risks, i. e. i) approving the complementary pension reform norms
(eg. new INSS law) and, ii) implementing the pension and financial sector reforms successfully. While the
pension law has been approved, its implementation requires a well-defined action plan and public
informnation campaign to be funded by the TA. The public information and consultation process underway
will help to mitigate this risk. Building up the technical capacity of the Government team preparing the
reform will be critical for the successful implementation of the reform and achieving TA objectives. The
ability of the Govemment leadership to agree upon technically complex features of the pension reform
program in a timely manner will also affect the sustainability of the technical assistance activities to be
financed by the TA. Both IDA and the Government are aware of the risks of this project, but even if the
objective of implementing a new pension system is not achieved, the parametric reforms and strengthening
of the old system would make it worthwhile.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Although the pension reform is expected to produce large-scale benefits for the majority of those
enrolled in the current PAYG system, as well as workers who will enroll in the new system and the
Nicaraguan population in general, a small number of privileged groups who benefit disproportionately from
the current system are likely to lose some of the benefits they would otherwise receive from the immediate
continuation of the unsustainable system. The losses of this group should be put into perspective by the
gains to society and to most pension systerm enrollees and future enrollees which are likely to result from
the pension reform. These expected gains will be emphasized in the public information campaigns to help
minimize any potential controversy.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Complete implementation of the procurement management action plan.
* Establish financial management system.
* Implementation Agreement between INSS and the Government signed.
- 13-



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Signing of the Superintendency Implementation Agreement-between the SBIF and Technical Secretariat
will be a condition for disbursements of the Financial Markets Development Component.
H. Readiness for Implementation
II 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
ni 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
He   A. Von       rff          Danny M. Lei igf                   D-MDowsett-Coirolo
Teaf Leader                       Sector Manager lirector           Country Manager/Director
- 14-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goarto Bank Mission)
Reduce long-term fiscal   Decrease implicit public debt, Actuarial analysis of pension  Maintenance of
imbalances, encourage     increase financial market    system and summary statistics, macroeconomic targets in line
privatc-sector-led growth and  activity, improve coverage of  financial sector evaluations,  with program objectives.
protect the poor.         old-age income protection.   macroeconomic reports.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Create a more equitable and   Improved targeting of public  Supervision missions, project Continued GON commitment
sustainable system of old age  pension payments and  implementation reports;   to funded, privately managed
income security for       actuarial performance of                              pension system;
Nicaraguan workers.       pension system.            Pension supervisoes reports
Fiscal situation is consistent
with proposed pension reform
program.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Pension System Reform:
eParametric reform of the    *Old age dependency ratio   *Reports of Pension    *Policy makers agree on
PAYG system               decreases; net present value   supervisor, including official  pension system reform
of public pension debt    statistics
shrinks by at least 33%.
*Recognition of pension   *Individual work histories    *INSS database
rights acquired under
PAYG
*Funded pillar of mandatory, *Regulations to legislation    *Project supervision reports;
defined contributions to  establishing private pension   press clippings
privately managed individual funds is aproved.
retirement accounts
*Small, targeted public   *Rules and eligibility criteria  *Regulation
pension guarantee for     for minimum pensions
lifetime poor contributors.
2. Pension System
Supervision:
*Independent regulatory   *Pension supervisory agency  *Pension supervisor's reports  *Adequate staffing and
agency to effectively monitor  in operation.                                    funding of agency
and enforce pension fund
management and
administration norms.
- 15 -



3. Financial Markets
Development:              *Availability of at least 2 new  *Financial sector evaluations, eSustained development of
*Financial market          debt instruments.         project implementation    financial markets; continued
instruments for pension fund                        reports.                  opening of insurance
investment;                                                                  industry.
*Adequate legislation and    *Draft insurance law and
* Rules for private sector  regulation of pension    regulations.
provision of pension     insurance products in place.
insurance products.
*Updated and improved     *Draft norms and regulations, eAdequate staffing and
*Institutional Strengthening   banking and other financial  inspection reports.  funding of SBIF.
of SBEF.                  sector norms introduced,
improved loan inspections.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Pension System Reform:  US$3.5 million                                     Congressional approval of this
TA Credit.
1.1 Design parametric refonn                       Methodology for calculation of
of the PAYG system and                              acquired rights           Government is willing to
method of recognizing                                                         approve parametric changes to
acquired rights.                                                              PAYG, adopt legal and
Consultant's Action Plan  regulatory framework for
1.2 Strengthen the capacity of                                                funded pension system.
INSS to implement the
Pension System Reform.                                                        Adequate information is
Regulations and legislation   available to decide on reform
1.3 Design the legal,                                                         parameters.
regulatory and institutional
framework for the defined                                                     Timely contracting of Project
contribution (DC) pension                                                     Inplemnentation Unit staff.
system.                                             Financing plan
1.4 Develop a financial plan
for the conversion from PAYG
to a DC pension system.                             Documentation on workshops Sources to finance transition
and seminars and          can be identified
1.5 Public awareness                               informational documents.
campaign and consultation
process.
- 16 -



2; Pension System          US$2.6 million
Supervision:
2.1 Develop organizational                            Blueprint for organizational  Allocation of adequate
structure, institutional                             structure, manuals and      counterpart funding.
by-laws, operating manuals                            by-laws.
and procedures.                                                                  Low turnover of Government
officials in charge of pension
2.2 Design and acquire                                                           reform design and
operating systems, develop                                                       implementation.
personnel training plan.
2.3 Strengthen capacity to
implement to supervise new
pension system.
3. Financial Markets       US$3.7 million
Development:
3.1 Identify and introduce new                        Draft insurance and securities Financial sector actors have
insurance and capital markets                        law                         confindence in SBIF ability to
instruments for pension fund                                                     implement norms and
investment                                                                       regulatory procedures.
3.2 Implement the framework                           Implementation plans
for private sector provision of
new pension products.
3.3 Strengthen banking sector                         Draft mutual fund, moveable
institutions and legal                                property registry, deposit
framework.                                           insurance, micro-finance,
housing finance, and
appriasors and auditors
registry laws.
Draft financial regulations
according to BASLE criteria
Carry out bank inspections
-17 -



Annex 2: Project Description
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.50 million
Pension System Reform
1.1 Implement parametric reform of  Complete & verify INSS database, establish consensus on assumptions and
the PAYG system                   projections, simulate costs of parametric reform options: retirement age,
contribution rates, vesting period, base salary; define transition period, mandatory
switch age; select parameters for reforn; draft necessary legislation.
1.2 Determine method of recognizing Reconstruct individual work histories, analyze costs of recognition bond options
acquired rights                   (implicit replacement rates, indexation, tradability, taxation).
1.3 Strengthen the capacity of INSS   Evaluate INSS' pension-related information systems and administration; develop
plan to increase collection capacity, collection/account management system; design
control system, design enforcement of control system, define contributors' rights
and services; design INSS service standards and indicators.
1.4 Design the legal, regulatory and   Draft regulations, including pension fund management, contributions, benefits and
institutional framework for the   regulatory regime.
defined contribution (DC) pension
system                            Detennine: optimal contribution rates for type of insurance and division between
workers, employers and the Govenument; vesting period, retirement age; portability
regime.
Detennine optimal institutional allocation of benefit and account management
responsibilities (old-age pensions, minimum pension guarantee, disability and
survivorship) and administration (contribution collections, claims submission and
verification, payment of benefits).
Draft nonns for establishing and operating a pension fund (AFP), including
account management, administration and investment norms; limitations on and
treatment of investments abroad; portfolio profitability, risk classification and
valuation standards; auditing, disclosure and reporting requirements; procedures
for purchases, sales, custody and transfer of securities; publicity norns, accounting
standards.
1.5 Design the targeted public pillar  Evaluate costs of different options, establish minimum pension level & rules and
eligibility criterion for min. pension; detennine alternative financing and
administration meclhanisms; evaluate legal franework of minimum pension
guarantee, draft necessary modifications. Carry out social impact assessment.
1.6 Update financial plan for the  Detennine the fiscal costs of the conversion, given parametric refonn options,
conversion from PAYG to a DC      current pension funds and outlays, method of recognizing of acquired rights and
pension system.                   minimum pension guarantee. Analyze financing options (fiscal adjustments and
debt instruments), & macroeconomic and distributive impact of financing
altematives.
1.7 Build public awareness of pension Define targets audiences, develop main messages to communicate and timing
reform program and carry out      strategy, evaluate costs and expected benefits of utilizing different communication
consultation process.             media, finalize information campaign proposal.
Determine key stakeholder gfoups, develop outreach and consultation process,
including seminars and workshops.
- 18 -



Project Component 2 - US$2.60 million
Pension System Supenrision
2.1 Develop organizational structure, Determine: objectives, authority and organizational structure of pension
institutional by-laws, operating  superintendency; required personnel profile; terms of reference, selection criteria,
manuals and procedures.           process and tenure for key positions; specifications for control systems and database
models; responsibilities and information feedback mechanisms vis-a-vis other
regulatory agencies; intervention procedures and capacities; financing mechanisms.
2.2 Design and acquire operating  Develop detailed specifications for the hardware, software and peripherals needed
systems, develop personnel training   to implement and enforce pension fund norms, continuously monitoring AFP
plan.                             performance and communicating information to affiliates.
Develop training plan for supervisory personnel to insure proficiency with
computerized monitoring and evaluation system.
Project Component 3 - USS 3.70 million
Financial Markets Development
3.1 Identify and introduce new    Estimate the anticipated size of pension fund product market; evaluate legal
insurance and capital markets    framework for insurance and capital market products, draft necessary changes;
instruments for pension fund      produce detailed description of products available and margins earned; evaluate
investment.                       options for linkeages between domestic and international firms to recommend
methods of introducing new products; estimate absorption capacity of domestic
insurance and capital issuing finns; analyze custody arrangements for securities
and recommend measures to add security.
3.2 Implement the framework for    Review supervisory franework to recommend activities for strengthening insurance
private sector provision of new   and capital market oversight.
pension products.
3.3 Strengthen banking and other    Draft mutual fund, mnoveable property registry, deposit insurance, micro-finance,
financial sector institutions and legal  housing finance, and appraisers and auditors registry laws.
framework.
Draft financial regulations avcording to BASLE criteria, and improve nonns for
bank resolution procedures, risk management and intemal control systems and
procedures.
Carry out assisted examination of banks and strengthen inspection teams through
on-the-job training.
- 19-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
1. Pension System Reform                                  1.20          2.30         3.50
2. Pension System Supervision                              1.60         1.00         2.60
3. Insurance and Financial Markets Development            0.70          3.00         3.70
4. Project Implementation Unit                            0.70          0.10         0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                       4.20          6.40        10.60
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              4.20          6.40        10.60
Total Financing Required               4.20         6.40         10.60
Contingencies of 10% applied to all.
- 20 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Summary of benefits and costs:
The project's institution building features make it not amenable to the calculation of rates of return.
Although most of the benefits are indirect, there are some indications of the substantial benefits bf the
project in relation to its costs. An important benefit of the project will be the difference in the quality of the
pension reform that it helps to achieve, because of the magnitude of the resources and the number of
workers involved, small differences can be very important. Although the expected reduction in the net
present value of the liabilities of the Government's pension system, which should be in excess of US$100
million, would be a result of the pension reform itself and not of the TA directly, these savings are among
benefits that can be expected from a successful reforn design and implementation.
The approach of the project to use a large number of specific consultancies instead of a single
overall consultancy proved the most cost efficient approach to TA implementation given the possibility of a
shiffing time frame and potential delays in implementing elements of the reform. Hiring of consultants and
procurement of equipment can be flexibly adjusted to these changes without incurring in large fixed
expenditures.
The costs of the TA are marginal relative to the expected reduction of the implicit public debt
burden and fiscal outlays required to finance on-going deficits of the current PAYG system. In addition to
the longer term fiscal benefits of a financially sustainable funded pension system, the reforms to be
supported by the TA will contribute in general to a more stable macroeconomic environment, effective
social protection policies and the development of a dynamic private sector which are likely to produce real
economic benefits for large segments of the Nicaraguan population.
Main Assumptions:
v Parametric reforms of the PAYG are undertaken.
v Supervisory institutions are put in place and are adequately staffed and funded.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Ratio of NPV of project costs to NPV of changes in implicit pension debt.
- 21 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
N/A, see secfion E. 1. and Annex 4.
- 22 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Procurement
A Procurement Capacity Assessment established that there is very limited institutional capacity to
manage procurement processes financed under the project, and the overall risk assessment was rated as
"high." TORs for the PCU personnel have been developed and are attached to the Financial Management
and Procurement Action Plan presented in Annex 11, which establishes the time frame and qualifications
for the Procurement Officer to be hired.
A number of features of domestic National Competitive Bidding procedures in Nicaragua are not
acceptable to IDA, including mandatory registration of bidders, mandatory rejection and re-bidding when
only one bid is submitted, public viewing of the bids and the evaluation report and pre-award comments
and protests submitted by the bidders. In order to address the limited procurement capacity of the
implementing agency and Project Coordinating Unit and shortcomings in the framework and application of
national procurement procedures, the Procurement Schedule in the Development Credit Agreement includes
a "Special Provisions" Section clarifying applicable procedures under the credit with respect to the issues
identified above.
- The procurement chapter of the Operational Manual will also describe IDA processes in detail for
each procurement method and serve as a user-friendly handbook on how to carry out the various steps of
the procurement processes (e.g. how to prepare documents, draft Terms of Reference and Technical
Specifications, conduct a bid opening, evaluate bids and proposals, conduct shopping, maintain records and
monitor procurement activities). It is expected that an international procurement specialist with substantial
experience in IDA financed procurement will be retained on a short-term basis to help establish
procurement procedures and a computerized, LACI compatible monitoring system for the PCU, prepare the
procurement section of the operating manual, draft NCB model documents, a standard contract for
individual consultants, and a format for shopping acceptable to IDA. Key activities and completion dates
for the recruitment of the PCU staff and international procurement specialist and preparation of the
operations manual including the detailed procurement procedures are outlined in Annex 11.
- 23 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.00           0.00           0.50           0.35           1.85
(1.00)         (0.00)         (0.50)         (0.00)         (1.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           1.00           0.55           1.55
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
4. Consultants                      0.00            0.00           5.50           1.70           7.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.50)         (0.00)         (5.50)
Total                             1.00           0.00           7.00           2.60          10.60
1 ________________________  (1.00)    1    (0.00)         (7.00)         (0.00)         (8.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to b.e financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project manageinenh office, Iraining, and lecluhical assistance services.
- 24-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                         N/A
2. Goods                       > 150,000                  ICB                   All contracts
> 25,000                  NCB                First two contracts
<25O000    .             shopping               First contract
3. Services(Consultants,    > 50,000 for firms*          QCBS                   All contracts
Services and Training)
< 50,000 for firms*           QCBS
> 30,000 for individuals*         IC                   All contracts
< 30,000 for finns or        CQ** & IC                Post review
individuals*
*TORs irrespective of    ** Advisory services for
dollar amount are subject to    specialized pension
pnor review.             supervision
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$3.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Supervision missions will take place once every 3 months in the first year of TA effectiveness and once
every 6 months thereafter.
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 25 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The Credit has a 3 year and 9 month disbursement period and the closing date would be February
28, 2004. Using the traditional disbursement procedures, US$300,000 would be the authorized allocation
for the Special Account until the aggregate amount of withdrawals plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments equals or exceeds US$1.15 million, at which time the authorized allocation for the
Special Account will increase to US$600,000 (approximately 4 months of eligible expenditures).
The PCU will be responsible for preparing and submitting withdrawal requests with the
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures for the project. The documents would include: (i) a
standard withdrawal application (Form 1903) for the total arnount of eligible project expenditures to be
replenished into the Special Account with a copy of the monthly bank statement of that account; (ii) the
SOE form, which would provide the summary of each category of expenditures, (iii) standard summary
sheets and supporting documentation for all expenditures above the procurement prior review thresholds
and (iv) a reconciliation statement for the SA.
The Financial Management and Procurement Action Plan (Annex 11) seeks to incorporate the use
of procedures under the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), but would allow for
the initial use of traditional disbursement procedures (which include direct payments, special commitments,
and Statement of Expenditures). In either case, a Special Account shall be established and maintained in
US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior review by IDA, and contracts whose value would be raised above the prior review
limits as a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made on SOEs for:
(a) contracts for goods, (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, (c)
contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$30,000 equivalent, and (d) training. When the
PCU's financial management system is in place and ready to use LACI procedures (by the end of the first
year of Project effectiveness), Project Management Reports (PMRs) will replace Statements of
Expenditures. The first PMR would present a forecast of expenditures for the next six (6) months of the
project, and, subsequently quarterly PMRs would be submitted. By the fourth quarter of the project
implementation the PMRs would serve as disbursement requests.
An annual audit report on the financial statements and special account transactions in the project
would be required to be delivered to the Association no later than four months after the closing of the
Govemment's fiscal year. In addition, interim audit work will be conducted for the periodic evaluation of
financial progress over the course of each year. The PCU would use the standard terms of reference as
issued periodically by the Association to contract independent qualified auditors.
To accelerate project implementation, the Borrower intends to contract the Project Manager,
Procurement apd Financial Management specialists prior to effectiveness. To support passage of the new
pension law, the Borrower also intends to contract consultant services for technical work and public
information before Credit signing. For such cases, retroactive financing up to a maximum amouht of
US$500,000 may be available for contracts signed after December 1, 1999.
- 26 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Exnciur  at              +    mon hU$mHR '   F~ni~   inan
Goods                                       1.40           100% of foreign expenditures; 80% of
local expenditures
Consultants                                 5.10                  100% of expenditures
Training                                    0.70                  100% of expenditures
Unallocated                                 0.80
Total Project Costs                         8.00          ___
Total                                       8.00
Special account:
Credit funds would be disbursed into a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA,
which would be managed by the PCU.
Goods to be procured include computers, software and office equipment.
Consultant selection arrangements according to the estimated value of contracts that will be
procured are as follows:
Thresholds          Selection Method        Estimated     Est. Total Cost
Number of    (US$ millions)
Contracts
Firms                > $50,000                QCBS                   10             2.5
< $50,000               QCBS                   18              1.0
Individuals          < $30,000               CQ & IC                40              0.6
> $30,000                 IC                   6               1.0
TOTAL          77              5.1
- 27 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
~                                               ~ ~X  -   aa   i--   <giZi- a .g . .. ........... &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . . . .  . . . . . . .
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                       9
First Bank mission (identification)               02/01/99                       02/22/99
Appraisal mission departure                       06/28/99                       06/28/99
Negotiations                                       11/01/99                      10/28/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     06/30/2000
Prepared by:
The Pension Reform Technical Commission (CREPEN), the Social Security Institute (INSS), the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and the Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions
(SBIF) with input from extemal consultants and the Bank's project tearn.
Preparation assistance:
Pension Reform PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Hermann von Gersdorff               Principal Economist
Miguel Navarro                      Financial Sector Specialist
Lisa Taber                          Operations Analyst
Cara Zappala                        Lanauage Team Assistant
Maria Victoria Lister               Operations Officer
Marta Molares-Halberg               Senior Counsel
Trunan Packard                      Social Protection Specialist
Donald Mclsaac                      Principal Financial Specialist
Dimitri Vittas                      Lead Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Gloria Grandolini                   Sr. Financial Economist (Peer Reviewer)
Femando De Mergelina                Sr. Financial Specialist
- 28 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
A. Project Implementation Plan
Included in project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
ESW, Minutes of PCD and ESW review meetings, BTORs, Procurement Plan, Financial Management
Assessment, and Procurement Assessment.
C. Other
Preliminary insurance and capital market overview evaluations, IDB FOMIN: Pension System Supervision
Program of Support documentation
*Including electronic files
- 29 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Difference between expecte
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P007777         1998 Nicaragua                     FINAN SEC. ADJUSTMEN                         0.00        71.40         0.00       1627       1529        1665
P040197         1999 Nicaragua                     FISE III                                     0.00        45.00         0.00       31 10       -046        0.00
P052080         1999 Niraragua                     FORESTRY                                     0.00         9.00         0.00        7.80       1.39        0 00
P035753         1998 Nicaragua                     HEALTH SECT II                               0.00        24.00         0.00       20.37       4.22        0 00
P035080         2000 Nicaragua                      INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                        0.00        23 00         0.00        1.33       -0.65       0.00
P007783         1995 Nicaragua                     NI Basic Education Project                   0.00        47.20         0.00        8.40       -2.46     10.58
P049296         2000 Niraragua                     NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                   0.00        20.90         0.00       20.57       000        000
P050613         2000 Nicaragua                     NI Second Basic Education Project            0.00        52.50         0.00       52 85       0.00       0.00
P007788         1996 Nicaragua                     ROADS REHAB & MAINT                          0.00        25.00         0.00        0.92       1.82       0.00
P007790         1997 Nicaragua                     RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                         0.00        30.00         0.00        4 30       -6.14      0 00
P007780         1994 Niraragua                     TECH&LANDMGMT                                 000        4400          0.00        1.91       247         0.00
P055853         2000 Nicaragua                     TELECOMMUNIC. REFORM                         0.00        15.90         0.00       15 60       2.62       0.00
P053705         1998 Nicaragua                     TRANSPORT II                                 0.00        47.40         0.00       32.34       -6 85      0.00
Total:        0.00       455.30         0.00      213.76      11.25      2723
- 30 -



NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AEF Ansbby                     0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/98            AEF Bailey Bridg               0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1992               AEF Canplas                    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Chartered                  0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Courdeau                   0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ekesons                    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Eterna                     0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hercules                   1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hygeia                     0.38    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mid-East                   0.00    0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.12    0.00
1998               AEF Minaj                      0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Moorhouse                  1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Radmed                     0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991               AEF Stark                      0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Telipoint                  0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Vinfesen                   1.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994               Abuja Intl                     1.75    0.75    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.71      0.00    0.00
1964/66/89         ArewaTextiles                  0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12      0.00    0.00
1992               FSDH                           0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.86      0.00    0.00
2000               Finarca                        2.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               Frutan                         2.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.43     0.00    0.00
1981/85/88         Ikeja Hotel                    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25      0.00    0.00
1998               La Colonia                     4.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.00    0.00      0.50    0.00
1993/99            Oman Leasing                   0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Dicegsa                    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               Tourist Co Nir                11.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.50    0.00
1994               United Power Crp              11.25    4.00    0.00   34.22    11.25    4.00     0.00   34.22
Total Portfolio:        40.53    8.41    7.12   34.22   21.92    7.20      3.12   34.22
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 31 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                America       Low-
Nicaraoua   & Carib.   income         Development diamond'
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                             48         502                              Life expectancy
(.NP ner canita (Atlas method. USSI                        410t      3 940        5071eC
GNP (Atlas method. IJSS billions)                           9 0      t       97h  844
Averane annual arowth, 1992-98
Population (%i                                              28         1 6        1 7
I ahnr force f%)                                            41         23         19       GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear avaiiabte. 1992-98t                                      capita                             rm a ront
Poveriv (% of oonulation belownationaloovertv tine)         5capit
Urban noDulation f% of total ooolation)                     64          75         31
I ito oxner.lanr.v at hirth (vearsl                         d8          70         63
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                    43          32         69
Child malniutrition /% of children under 5)                  12          8                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% Of DoOulation)                      62          75         74
Illiteranv (% of ooDulation aoe 254')                       37          13         32     1
Gross nrimarv anrollment (% ofschool-ace nooulationl       1t)3        113        108                    Nicaragua
Maie                                                     101           .       113                     Low-income group
Female                                                   10n4                  103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977      1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                2.2       2 9        2.0        2.1
Gross dompstir. inva.tmant/GI)FP                 25 f      1. 8       37 2       34 5
Exoorts of ooods and servicestGCP                32.1      11.8       42.8       37.7                       Trade
Grnss domestic savinns/ClnP                      2t 3      138 3       .4         .5 3
Gross national savinna/CDP                       13 p      13 3        -8        - .S a
Current account balance/COnP                     -8 ti    -27 5      -30)3      -872 9                       /m
Interest navments/CDP                             2 3       0 4        7 f        7 2                                      Investment
Total dehtf/CP                                   57 1     271 2      291 0      2839       Savings
Total debt aervice/exnnrts                       14 8      14 4       31 8       32 2
Present value of debt/CDP                                     .      224.2
Present valoef dahtl/exnorls                                         410 5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998   1999-03
faveraae annual orowth)
GDP                                    -2.0t      2,0       5 1        4.0        6.4                     Nicaragua
CNP ner canita                         -5 7       06        68         3 3        38                      Low-income group
Fxnorts of noods and services          -83       11 0       4 0        -6 4       74
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977      1987       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and investment I%)
f% of GOP)
Anoriclturre                                     72 9      289        33 9       34 0      40
lndustrv                                         26.0      23.1       21.6       21.5      20
Maniafrachtrino                                192       18 7        185 8      15 1
Services                                         51.1      48.0       44.5       44.4
94   95    96   97    98
Private cnonsumnltinn                            70 8      57 0       89 9       91 1      -20
General oovernment consumDtion                    8.9      34.2       14.6       14.2                        GDI        '  GDP
Imnorts nf nonds and services                    37 4      13 8       79 5       77 .8
faveraae annual arowth)                      1977-87  1988-98        1997        1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                      -3.2       4.3        8.3        4 2      4
Insdustrv                                        -1 4       2 2        5 7        4 8,    30
Manufacturina                                  -0.4       0.9         3.8       2.1
Services                                         -1 7       05         2 8        3 8      15
Private consumotion                              -7.8       2.1        8.8        9.6       o
Ceneral nnvernment cons%umnlion                  17 5      -5 5        -0 7       -0 4         -         94   95
CGross domestic investmant                        0 8       89        22 2       20 0      15
Imnorts of nonds and services                    -0 5       fi 2      14 1        7 9                     Exports   Imports
C.ross nAtionna nrodict                          -2 8       34         98 f           1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldl comnared with its income-oroun averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
ha incomnlete
- 32 -



Nicara2ua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                       30
(% change)
Consumer prices                                11.4    911.9        9.2      13.0    20
ImplicitGDPdeflator                            11.9    523.1,       9.2      13.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                                         28.8       33.4      35.4              93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                           ..   -11.9         4.5       7.8                     GDP deftator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..   -18.0         -9.2      -4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977      1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            637       273        704       573     2
Coffee                                        199      115        116       173          I
Shrimp and lobster                             22       12         80        79      1,500
Manufactures                                  187       39        279       125                                        l    :
Total imports (cif)                            761       827      1,454     1,508      1,00
Food                                          i11       88        276       344 
Fuel and energy                               103      125        189       131
Capital goods                                 193      242        394       402         0
92   93  94  99   96   97   9
Exoort nrice index (1995=100)                   64        80         93        90
Imoort Drice index (1995= 100)                  67        76        106       112                0 Exports     Ilmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        96      106         88        81
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1US$ millions)                                          1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  720       302        928       830      0o
Imports of goods and services                  841       895      1,471     1,517
Resource balance                               -121     -593       -643      -687    -2
Net income                                      -71     -208       -235      -211
Net current transfers                             0        0        165       200     -4
Current account balance                        -192     -801       -614      -699
Financing items (net)                          196       578        672       693
Changes in net reserves                          -3      223        -58         6     -BO
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)          153      113        383       355
Conversion rate (DEC. locae/US$)                7.0    925.8         9.4      10.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
IUS5 millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Totai debt outstanding and disbursed          1,278    7,897      5,887     6,033
IBRD                                          75       248         24        15                   G:422       B 487
IDA                                           22        60        368       487
F: 319                C5
Total debt service                              107       44        349       337
IBRD                                           8         0         20        11
IDA                                            0         0          4         4                                       D: 1,139
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                2        68        216       107
Official creditors                            68       477         37       178
Private creditors                            116         9         -2         0
Foreign direct investment                     10         0        173       116
Portfolio equity                               0         0          0         0              E: 3,601
World Bank program
Commitments                                   35AIBR                                                               E - Bilateral
35  0      0       238    ~~~~~~~B -IDA  D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                 17         0         51       105      c -IM                         G -Short-term
Principal repayments                           3         0         18        10
Net flows                                      15        0         33        95
Interest payments                              5         0          6         5
Net transfers                                  9         0         27        90
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/22/99
- 33 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Summary Financial Management and Procurement Action Plan
Activities                          Responsible         Completion Date
l. Recruit PCU staff (Project Manager, Procurement           Steering        PCU: Feb. 1, 2000
Specialist, Financial Officer, Executive Assistant) and     Committee        IPS: April 30, 2000
International Procurement Specialist (IPS).
2. Recruit consultant for design and implementation of       Steering          April 30, 2000
Financial Management System                                 Committee
3. Adopt FMS Design PCU-INSS                             Project Manager        June 30, 2000
4. Produce Operational Manual                                PCU &              July 30, 2000
Consultant
5. Establish LACI compatible electronic monitoring system.   PCU &            August 15, 2000
Consultant
6. Financial Management System Implementation and Training   PCU &             August 30, 2000
Consultant
7. Train PCI) staff on procurement and disbursement policies  PCU &            August 30, 2000
and procedures.                                             Consultant
The intemational consultant should be retained on a short-term basis to help establish procurement
procedures and a computerized, LACI compatible monitoring system for the PCU, prepare the procurement
section of the operating manual, draft NCB model documents, a standard contract for individual
consultants, and a format for shopping acceptable to the Bank, as required.
The Financial Management Capacity Assessment will be conducted again before effectiveness to certify
that the system is progressing toward meeting LACI requirements.
- 34 -



Nicaragua: Asistencia T6cnica para la Reforma de Pensiones y
Mercados Financieros
Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto (UCP)
y Terminos de Referencia
Antecedentes:
Dentro del contexto del programa ESAF, apoyado por el Fondo Monetario Intemacional
(FMI), el Banco Mundial (BM) y el BID, el Gobierno de Nicaragua estA implementando un
ambicioso plan de reformas estructurales que incluye ufia profunda transformaci6n del actual
Sistema de Pensiones, administrado por el INSS. El actual Sistema se caracteriza por flujos
financieros deficitarios y crecientes, y un nivel de reservas tecnicas extremadamente bajo en
comparaci6n con las obligaciones actuariales. Ademas el sistema tiene una baja cobertura y
beneficios inadecuados.
Con el fin de llevar a cabo este proceso la Presidencia de Republica cre6 una Comisi6n
Interministerial para la Reforma del Sistema de Pensiones integrada por el Presidente del
INSS, el Presidente del Banco Central, el Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico y el
Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia, quien la preside. La Comisi6n Interministerial tiene a
su cargo la definici6n de la estrategia, la implementaci6n y el seguimiento de todos los
aspectos relacionados con la reforma. Para apoyar la labor de la Comisi6n Interministerial,
en Marzo de 1998 fue creada la Comisi6n para la Reforma de Pensiones de Nicaragua
(CREPEN), como organismo tecnico para realizar los estudios pertinentes al nuevo Sistema
de Pensiones, la cual reporta regularmente a la Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia
(SETEC).
En este contexto, el Gobierno de Nicaragua ha solicitado el apoyo del Banco Mundial para
financiar un proyecto de asistencia.tecnica para la reforma de pensiones que tendra como
organismo' ejecutor a la SETEC. Para efectos de coordinacion interinstitucional y toma de
decisiones sobre las estrategias y actividades del proyecto en sus distintos componentes, se
crea el "Comite Directivo del Proyecto", el cual estara integrado por el SETEC y el
Presidente Ejecutivo del INSS.
A su vez el Comite Directivo (CD) sera apoyado por una Unidad Coordinadora del
Proyecto (UCP) que debe administrar los fondos destinados para llevar a cabo la Reforma
de Pensiones y cuyos terminos de referencia se describen a continuaci6n.
Objetivos Generales de la UCP:
Los Objetivos generales de la Unidad de Coordinadora del Proyecto son:
1. Coordinar la ejecuci6n, seguimiento y apoyo administrativo de los planes, politicas y
- 35 -



estrategias aprobadas por el CD.
2. Administrar eficientemente los recursos provenientes del proyecto de Asistencia
T1cnica
3. Garantizar la transparencia en el uso de los recursos del proyecto de Asistencia
Tecnica.
Organizaci6n Funcional y Costos de la UCP:
En el Marco Institucional propuesto para el funcionamiento del Proyecto y de
acuerdo a lo mostrado en el organigrama se pueden identificar dos niveles: (a) El nivel
estrategico y de politica representado por el CD y apoyado por la CREPEN y (b) el
nivel operativo representado por la UCP que depende directamente del CD. A nivel
de la UCP, se propone que cuente con: (a) Un Gerente de Proyecto (b) Un Oficial
de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones, (c) Un Oficial de Finanzas y (d) Una Secretaria
Ejecutiva.
El costo de operaci6n y equipamiento de la UCP se ha estimado en US$500 mil pafa
la duraci6n del proyecto, segun presupuesto. Se estima que la operaci6n de la UCP
comenzara en enero del ano 2000, con una duraci6n maxima de cuatro afios.
Terminos de Referencia del Gerente de Proyecto:
1.-   Coordinar la operaci6n de la Reforma del Sistema de Pensiones de acuerdo a
los lineamientos establecidos por el CD.
2.-   Establecer en la UCP una estructura financiera y administrativa eficiente.
3.-   Proponer al CD, para su debida aprobaci6n, los planes de trabajo para cada
Componente y Subcomponente del Proyecto, de tal manera que se ejecuten
con diligencia, eficiencia y oportunidad.
4.-   Determinar las necesidades de Consultoria, y elaborar los terminos de
referencia para ser aprobados por el CD y post$riormente por los Organismos
que financian las actividades del Proyecto.
5.-.  Preparar un presupuesto general del proyecto y detallado anualmente con sus
respectivos cronogramas para ser aprobados por el CD.
6.-   Elaborar y presentar al CD informes peri6dicos de avance del Proyecto.
7.-   Dirigir y supervisar los comites de evaluaci6n de los procesos de adquisici6n
y contrataci6n de servicios de consultoria, con el fin de asegurar la aplicaci6n
- 36 -



de la normativa del GON, AIF y BID.
8.-   Establecer procedimientos de tesoreria (aprobaci6n y desembolsos de pagos)
adecuados para facilitar los mecanismos de control y evitar conflictos de
interes.
9 -   Administrar en forma oportuna y eficiente los fondos del proyecto; diseniar e
implantar los sistemas automatizados contables y financieros necesarios para el
seguimiento y control del proyecto y mantener un programa interno de
vigilancia financiera que asegure la disponibilidad de fondos suficientes en las
cuentas especiales asignadas para tal efecto.
10.-  Mantener y resguardar los archivos documentales y electr6nicos del Proyecto.
11.-  Informar acerca del manejo de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto al CD.
12.-  Establecer una estructura de control interno adecuada y velar por el
cumplimiento de sus procedimientos.
13.-  Implementar las recomendaciones y observaciones hechas por los auditores y
organismos intemacionales en la administraci6n de la UCP.
14.-  Asegurarse de que los auditores externos sean contratados antes de cada anio a
ser auditado.
15.-  Vigilar el cumplimiento con los requisitos de administraci6n financiera, de
adquisiciones y monitoreo fisico establecidos por tales organismos.
16.-  Efectuar las labores dentro de su area de responsabilidad que permitan
incrementar las probabilidades de exito del proyecto.
Terminos de Referencia del Oficial de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones:
1.-   Elaborar el Manual de Normas y Procedimientos para adquisiciones y
contrataciones de la UCP con base en las normas y procedimientos de la AIF y
BID segun lo establecido en el Convenio de Credito y convenio FOMIN.
2.-   Elaborar los documentos de Licitaci6n para adquisiciones, de invitaci6n para
concurso de firmas consultoras, los contratos y sus respectivos anexos de
Firmas o Individuales.
3.-   Elaborar plan anual de adquisiciones y contrataciones de acuerdo a
requerimientos de la AIF.
- 37 -



4.-    Apoyar a la Coordinaci6n Tecnica en la resoluci6n de problemas de caracter
tecnico relacionados con las adquisiciones y/o contrataciones. Verificar y
completar los Terminos de Referencia.
5.-   Realizar el seguimiento tecnico del cumplimiento de los compromisos
establecidos en las adquisiciones y/o contrataciones de la UCP. Contratos en
Ejecuci6n.
6.-   Asegurar los trAmites ante el Banco Mundial de "no objeci6n" y aprobaci6n de
contratos de todas las adquisiciones.
7.-   Elaborar  informes   peri6dicos (trimestrales) sobre la gesti6n de las
adquisiciones del Proyecto, y un informe anual que incluya toda la gesti6n.
8.-   Llevar un registro detallado de las adquisiciones realizadas.
9.-   Asistir en el anAlisis de las evaluaciones de las licitaciones y proposiciones de los
consultores y preparar reportes de evaluaci6n.
10.- Asistir en las negociaciones con los contratos de los consultores.
11.-  Administrar los contratos asegurando las remuneraciones a tiempo y el monitoreo del
desempenio de las funciones de acuerdo con las condiciones de los contratos,
resolviendo los reclamos y disputas, y aplicando recursos contractuales y apropiados.
12.-  Efectuar las labores dentro de su Area de responsabilidad que permitan incrementar
las probabilidades de exito del proyecto.
Terminos.de Referencia del Oricial de Finanzas:
1.-   Elaborar el Manual de Normas y Procedimientos para ejecuci6n presupuestaria
y registro contable de la UCP con base en las normas y procedimientos de la
AIF y BID segun lo establecido en el Convenio de Credito y Convenio
FOMIN.
2.-   Elaborar los documentos de presupuesto anual y cuatrimestral, con sus
respectivos reportes de ejecuci6n, y mantener actualizada la contabilidad del
proyecto por cada Componente y Subcomponente.
3.-   Revisar los egresos de las cuentas de la UCP, preparar las conciliaciones
bancarias y darle mantenimiento a la base de datos de egresos efectuados por
mes.
4.-   Elaborar las solicitudes de reembolso de fondos al Banco Mundial, detallados
por lugar donde se efectu6 el egreso, Certificado de gastos, Hojas resumen,
- 38 -



Categorias, etc. Realizar la conciliaci6n de la cuenta especial y presentar
documentos soportes.
5.-   Preparar los compromisos especiales que se envian al Banco Mundial para
garantizar cartas de creditos por monto mayores a los indicados en el convenio
de credito, lo mismo que para efectuar pagos directos a suplidores.
6.-   Apoyar al Gerente de Proyecto en la soluci6n de problemas de carActer
tecnico relacionados con el presupuesto y la contabilidad.
7.-   Realizar el seguimiento tecnico del cumplimiento de los compromisos
establecidos en programaci6n presupuestaria de la UCP.
8.-   Mantener al dia el sistema computarizado para el control de los egresos del
Proyecto.
9.-   Preparar los informes financieros peri6dicos(trimestrales) y anuales requeridos
por la AIF.
10.-  Efectuar las labores dentro de su Area de responsabilidad que permitan
incrementar las probabilidades de exito del proyecto.
Terminos de Referencia de la Secretaria de la UCP:
1.-   Disenar el ordenamiento de los archivos a manejar en la UCP.
2.-   Realizar los procesos de envios y recepci6n de correspondencia.
3.-   Realizar el Ilenado de los formatos a enviar de requerimientos a los
organismos Internacionales.
4.-   Manejar el Area de fotocopiado, fax, y demas relacionados con papeleria de la
UCP.
5.-   Redacci6n de cartas y demAs documentos a solicitud de sus superiores.
6.-   Efectuar las labores dentro de su Area de responsabilidad que permitan
incrementar las probabilidades de exito del proyecto.
- 39 -



Perfil de Puestos para el Personal de la UCP
Posici6n                   Formaci6n                                 Experiencia
Gerente de Proyecto Licenciado en Ciencias Econ6micas,        Experiencia en gerencia de proyectos con
Administrativas, Ingenieria Industrial o areas  financiamiento internacional. Manejo de
afines, con Maestria en Administraci6n,    sistemas computaciones (word, excel,
Economia Empresarial y con experiencia minima  powerpoint y project manager). Deseable
de tres affos en cargos sinillares.         experiencia previa en procesos de refoinna
institucionales.
Oficial en        Licenciado en Ciencias administrativas,      Experiencia minima de tres afios en manejo
Adquisiciones y   Econ6micas o Ingenieria Industrial.         de normas y prcedimientos de adquisiciones.
Contrataciones                                                Experiencia en politicas y pmcedimientos de
organismos internacionales en adquisiciones y
desembolsos y conocimientos de Ley de
Contrataciones del Estado. Manejo de
Sistemas computacionales (word, excel,
powerpoint y project manager).
Oficial de Finanzas  Licenciado en Contabilidad P6blica (CPA) o  Experiencia minima de tres afios en el manejo
Licenciado en Administraci6n de Empresas con   financiero de Organismos Internacionales.
especialidad en Finanzas                    Experiencia en la elaboraci6n de presupuestos
y contabilidad de proyectos.
Manejo de sistemas computacionales (word,
excel, powerpoint y project manager)
Secretaria de     Secretaria Ejecutiva Bilingue               Experiencia de tres afios en el area de
Gerente de Proyecto                                            gerencia. Dominio del idioma ingles, manejo
de paquetes computacionales, excelente
comunicaci6n oral y escrita.
- 40 -



MAP SECTION



f



56                           O4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                        ~    A
N I CARAG U A                                                              H6NDURAS                     0(              f7eo                                                  -di tfHh
WeIoo -o of Th. World BooJk
DEPARTMENTS                                                                                                                            lAGOON                             roup The.
{   \_    _~   Bilwaskorma  \                               parofThe WorldSooS= Orno
Department boundaries                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAYGS
-   Department boundaries                                         a > <  iti      Porolupi                                    MISQUITOS                        oedroSeorroporre
.    National capital                                                                                                                ISLANDS
Cities and towns
International Boundaries                                                                                                 PAHARA LAGOON
_}                            \,~~~~~~ ~~Bonanza    <               
4a ff    \  /  eeLas Rsto                    Puerto Cabezos                                                   I4
/   ~ \ )   J I    0 7- E G A  0   ~ 4           S              WsKARMA LAGOON
Santa         NEGOVAf                                       A T L A N T I C O
Maria  Ocotal
M    Iz                                                       N O R T E                             WOUNTA LAGOON
Somoto               La Vigia                           Kuiu n
N                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puerto Isabel
~~EsteIi  IvIA [AGALI'A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CARIBBEAN SEA
N       _~M  AGL'
Patosi     <      Somotiloj           ~                  Maf/valpA  MuGALI'A           0,,/                                                         20   40   60   80   100  120  140  160
< ~~~'~~~ , ,,, . [ E ~~~~~O Nt! g/Muluypa;/<t                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS
MoraN         D           EGN                              M                                                             5                                                             MILES
Ii                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  210  40  60   50       100
*fntndeg y     Mal paisillo                                                          A    1LA N   TI CO 
Corint         '  LeaA                             Boaco   BO A C OACS UR
NAGUA ,  S      -C          ............ df -- 'Lo Libertod    \      oPERLAS LAGOON   MALZ '                              BEC                          5
MAN   GO  ~~~~~~'   La ~~Libortad                            RaaISLANDS  *oW                                      ..~          CARIBBEAN SEA    o
Puerto Sandin o                      (<    Cl-OlaACI 0                ESJ                    >R7                                                  ,          HONDURAS
NAGUA  AA               ~~~~~~JuigalpaUalo                              Bluefields  v,ElBlf
LAKE         San Ub  Id LUEFIELDS BAY                                                            EL
IJinotepe   Na   ime                                                                                                   SALVADO
CARAZO                                                                                                                                       ARANA
La Boquila                               M\                                                                                                      NICARAGUAio
RivasMa    o
RIVA               MNCARALIA
Bioncas          SonCario                       PUNTA GORDA BAY                         Area o   o
PACIFIC OCEAN                 San Juan del SSC,,, Baas
i_N UAC  OEL NOBLE BAY MStnit5a0   80  160 KILOMETERS            RICA
San tuon de INare                       MILES
_o                                                                                                               01                                                            PARCI C A  PAIFIC OCEAN    PANAMA  O
'a                                                                                                                                                                0
'C                                                        56 ~                                                                                                                                      o r \&sQ  4 -



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/R2000-57[PAD]f1
FROM: Vice President and Secretary               April 27, 2000
NICARAGUA: Pension and Financial Market Reform
Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
(Annex 11 - English Translation)
Attached is the English version of Annex 11 (Terms of Reference) to the Project
Appraisal Document (IDA/R2000-57[PAD] dated April 24, 2000) regarding a proposed
Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance credit to the Republic of
Nicaragua.
Questions on this document may be referred to Mr. Von Gersdorff (ext 38611).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Nicaragua
Pensions and Financial Markets Reform Technical Assistance Project
Coordinating Project Unit (UCP)
Terms of Reference
Background:
Within the context of the ESAF program, supported by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), the World Bank (World Bank), and the IDB, the Government of Nicaragua is
implementing an ambitious plan of structural reforms that includes a profound
transformation of the current Pension Systems, administered by the INSS. The current
System is characterized by growing financial deficits, and an extremely low level of
technical reserves in comparison with the actuarial obligations. In addition, the system
has a low coverage and inadequate benefits.
For the purpose of carrying out this process the Presidency of the Republic created an
Interministerial Commission for the Reform of the Pensions System made up by the
President of the INSS, the President of the Central Bank, the Minister of Finance and
Public Credit and the Technical Secretary of the Presidency, who presides over it. The
Interministerial Commission is responsible for the definition of the strategy, the
implementation, and the monitoring of all the aspects related to the reform. To support
the task of the Interministerial Commission, the Commission for the Reform of Pensions
of Nicaragua (CREPEN) was created in March 1998. CREPEN is a technical agency to
conduct the studies related to the new Pensions system, and reports regularly to the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC).
In this context, the Government of Nicaragua has requested the support of the World
Bank to finance a technical assistance project for the pension reform that will have as
executing agency the SETEC. For purposes of inter-institutional coordination and
decision-making on the strategies and project activities in their different components, it
created the "Steering Committee of the Project", which will have the SETEC and the
Executive President of the INSS as members.
The Steering Committee (CD) will be supported by a Coordinating Unit of the Project
(UCP) that will administer the funds allocated to carry out the Pensions Reform. UCP's
terms of reference are described below.
General Objectives of the UCP:
The general Objectives of the Project Coordinating Unit are:
1. Coordinate the execution, monitoring, and administrative support of the plans,
policies, and strategies approved by the CD.
2. Efficient administration of the resources from the Technical Assistance project.
3. Guarantee the transparency in the use of the resources of the Technical Assistance
project.



Functional Organization and Costs of the UCP:
Within the institutional framework proposed for the operation of the project and in
accordance with in the organizational chart, two levels can be identified: (a) The strategy
and policy level represented by the CD and supported by the CREPEN, and (b) the
operating level represented by the UCP that depends directly on the CD. The UCP will
have: (a) a Project Manager, (b) an Official of Procurements and Contracting, (c) a
Finance Officer, and (d) An Executive Secretary.
The total cost of operation and equipment of the UCP has been estimated at US$500
thousand for the duration of the project. It is estimated that the operation of the UCP will
begin in May, 2000.
Terms of Reference of the Project Manager:
1.-   Coordinate the operation of the Pension System Reform in accordance with the
guidelines established by the CD.
2.-   Establish in the UCP an efficient financing and administrative structure.
3.-   Propose to the CD, for its approval, the work program for each Component and
Sub-component of the Project, in such a way that they are carried out with
diligence, efficiency, and on time.
4.-   Determine the consultants needs, and prepare the terms of reference to. be
approved by the CD and subsequently by the agencies that finance the Project
activities.
5.-   Prepare an annual general budget of the project with timetables to be approved
by the CD.
6.-   Prepare and submit to the CD periodic reports on the progress of the Project.
7.-   Direct and supervise the evaluation committees of the procurement processes and
contracting of consultant services, ensuring the enforcement of the regulation of
the GON, IDA, and IDB.
8.-   Establish treasury procedures (approval and disbursements of payments)
adequate to facilitate the control mechanisms and to avoid conflicts of interest.
9.-   Administer in an efficient and timely fashion the funds of the project; design and
implement the accounting and financial systems necessary for the monitoring and
control of the project and to keep an internal program of financial surveillance
that ensures the availability of sufficient funds in the assigned special accounts.
10.-  Maintain and protect the documentary and electronic files of the Project.
11.-  Report about the management of the Coordinating Unit of the Project to the CD.



12.-  Establish an adequate internal control structure and safeguard the fulfillment of
its procedures.
13.-  Implement the recommendations and observations made by the auditors and
international organizations in the administration of the UCP.
14.-  Make sure that the external auditors are hired before each year to be audited.
15.-  Monitor the fulfillment of the requirements for financial administration, for
procurement and physical monitoring.
16.-  Carry out all tasks that increase the probabilities of success of the project.
Terms of Reference of the Procurement and Contracting Officer:
1.-   Prepare Guidelines and Procedures for acquisitions and contracting of the UCP
based on the standards and procedures of the IDA and IDB as provided for in the
Credit Agreement and FOMIN agreement.
2.-   Prepare the bidding documents for procurement, invitations for competition of
consulting firms, the contracts and its respective annexes of firms or individuals.
3.-   Prepare annual plan of procurement and contracting in accordance with
requirements of IDA.
4.-   Support the technical coordination in the resolution of technical problems related
to the procurement and/or contracting. Confirm and complete the Terms of
Reference.
5.-   Carry out the technical monitoring of compliance of the commitments
established in the acquisitions and/or contracting of the UCP.
6.-   Ensure the transactions before the World Bank of "clearance" and approval of
contracts of all the procurement.
7.-   Prepare periodic reports (quarterly and annual) on the management of the
procurement of the Project.
8.-   Carry out a detailed registry of procurement.
9.-   Assist in the analysis of the evaluation of the bidding and the consultants
proposals and prepare evaluation reports.
10.-    Assist in the negotiations of the consultants contracts.
11.-  Administer the contracts ensuring payment on time and the monitoring of the
performance of the functions in accordance with the contracts, resolving claims
and disputes, and applying contractual and appropriate resources.



12.-  Do the tasks within area of responsibility that increase the probability of success
of the project.
Terms of Reference of the Finance Officer:
1.-   Prepare the Manual of Standards and Procedures for budgetary execution and
accounting registry of the UCP based on the standards and procedures of the IDA
and IDB as provided for in the Agreement of Credit and FOMIN Agreement.
2.-   Prepare the documents of annual and four-month budget, with its respective
execution reports, and keep up-to-date the accounting of the project per each
Component and Sub-component.
3.-   Review the payments of the accounts of the UCP, prepare the banking
conciliation, and maintain the database of payments done per month.
4. -   Prepare the requests of refund of funds to the World Bank, detailed by payment,
certificate of expenditures, summary sheets, categories, etc. Carry out the
conciliation of the special account and present support documents.
5.-   Prepare the special conunitments that are sent to the World Bank to guarantee
payments for amount greater then those indicated in the Credit Agreement, like
direct payments to suppliers.
6.-   Support the Manager of Project in solving problems of technical character related
to the budget and the accounting.
7.-   Carry out the technical monitoring of compliance of the commitments
established in budgetary programming of the UCP.
8. -   Keep up-to-date the computerized system for the control of the payments of the
Project.
9.-   Prepare the financial periodic reports (every three months and annual) required
by the IDA.
10.-  Do the tasks within area of responsibility that increase the probability of success
of the project.
Terms of Reference of the Secretary of the UCP:
1.-   Design the arrangement of the files in the UCP.
2.-   Carry out the processes of correspondence, shipments, and reception.
3.-   Fill out the formats to send requirements to the intemational organizations.
4.-   Handle copying, fax, and other related to stationery of the UCP.



5.-   Draft letters and other documents.
6.-   Do the tasks within area of responsibility that increase the success probability of
the project.
Position Profle for the Personnel of the UCP
Position         Formation                     Experience
Project Manager Graduate in Economics, Administration,  Experience in project management with
Industrial Engineering or related areas,  international financing. Software (word,
with Master's Degree in Administration,  excel, powerpoint and project manager).
Business, Economics and with experience Desirable previous experience in reform
of minimum three years in similar   institutional processes.
positions.
Official in    Graduate in Administration, Economics   Minimum experience of three years in
Procurements   or Industrial Engineering.          management of standards and procedures
and Contracting                                    of procurements. Experience in policies
and procedures of international
organizations in procurements and
disbursements and knowledge of Law of
Contracting. Software (word, excel,
powerpoint and project manager).
Finance Officer Graduate in Public Accounting (CPA) or  Minimum experience of three years in the
Graduate in Business Administration  financial management of international
specialized in Finance              organizations. Experience in the
preparation of budgets and project
accounting.
Software (word, excel, powerpoint and
project manager)
Project Manager Bilingual Executive Secretary      Experience of three years. Command of th
Secretary                                          English language, management of software
packages, excellent oral and written
communication.



