                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 34715-NI

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-33440)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.8 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

  FOR A PENSION AND FINANCIAL MARKET REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                                           December 22, 2005




Central America Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Cordobas
                                  1 Cordoba = US$ 0.060770
                                        US$ 1 = 16.4555 NIO

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 -      December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP            Pension Fund Manager
BCN            Central Bank of Nicaragua
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CENI           Central Bank Bonds to Finance Resolution of Problem Banks
DC             Defined Contribution (Pension System)
FSAC           Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
INSS           Nicaraguan Social Security Institute
IVM            Old Age, Disability and Survivor's Insurance
MHCP           Ministry of Finance
PAYG           Pay-as-you-go Social Security System
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PFMRTAC        Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit
PROST          Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
SBOIF          Superintendency of Banks and other Financial Institutions
SETEC          Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
SIP            Superintendency of Pension Funds



                             Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                           Country Director        Jane Armitage
                             Sector Director       Makhtar Diop
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Aquiles Almansi

                                        NICARAGUA
             Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            22
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43

Project ID: P056087                                                  Project Name: Pension and Financial Market Reform
                                                                     Technical Assistance Credit
Team Leader: Aquiles A. Almansi                                      TL Unit: LCC2C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical            L/C/TF Number: IDA-33440
                            Assistance Credit
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (50%); Central
                            government administration (35%); Non-compulsory pensions,
                            insurance and contractual savings (15%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Other public sector governance (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/30/1999                                     Effective: 10/25/2000                10/25/2000
     Appraisal: 06/21/1999                                         MTR: 10/28/2002                  10/28/2002
      Approval: 05/11/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF THE
                                           PRESIDENCY/INSS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Feranti
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Susan G. Goldmark                              ---
Team Leader at ICR:             Aquiles A. Almansi                             Hermann A. von Gersdorff
ICR Primary Author:             Aquiles A. Almansi; Manuel
                                Lasaga (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Introduction

1.       In early 1990, after more than a decade of civil war, the first democratically elected President,
Violeta Chamorro, confronted a devastated economy and a highly polarized society. Relying on massive
support from the international donor community, the Government embarked on an ambitious stabilization
and reform program. The results over the course of her administration were impressive, including a drastic
reduction of the fiscal deficit, elimination of price controls, sale of most state-owned productive firms,
liberalization of the exchange and trade systems, resolution of many property disputes, the re-emergence of
private banking, creation of a Superintendency of Banks (SBOIF), and reduction of the share of state banks
in the financial system. The program succeeded in lowering inflation to low double digits, to steady
economic growth since 1994, to a recovery in private domestic and foreign investment, and to a lowering of
the unemployment rate from 23 percent in 1993 to 14 percent in 1997. On the political / institutional front,
a gradual shift took place toward the end of the Chamorro administration, with the executive agreeing to
constitutional reforms that ceded some of its powers to the legislature, and the military accepting a transfer
to civilian control.1




2.       President Arnoldo Aleman, who came to office in January 1997, continued and deepened the
reform effort. While important advances were made in structural reforms, such as the passage of a Tax
Reform Law, privatization of key infrastructure sectors, and the winding down of public sector
participation in the banking system, macroeconomic imbalances remained large ­ government expenditures
represented over 40 percent of GDP and external debt represented the equivalent of 3 times GDP. The
process of fiscal consolidation was interrupted by Hurricane Mitch in October 1998, but the Nicaraguan
economy was able to rebound quickly from the physical damage caused by the hurricane, due largely to a
massive inflow of foreign aid that came in response.

3.       In support of the Government's development agenda, the Bank's strategy under the 1998 CAS
focused on three core themes: (i) consolidating growth through private sector development; (ii) developing
the rural sector and strengthening environmental protection; and (iii) developing human capital and
protecting the poor. The private sector support strategy was comprised of the following specific objectives:
1) macroeconomic stability; 2) modernization of the state, including legal and judicial reform; 3) financial
sector and pension reform; 4) basic infrastructure; and 5) development of small and medium enterprises.
This project addressed the pension and financial sector reform component.

Pension Reform

4.       The Social Security system in Nicaragua can be traced back to the 1930s, when a pension system
was created for teachers older than 60 years of age, and formalized in the 1950s with the establishment of
the Social Security Institute (INSS) The system was set up as a defined-benefit pay-as-you-go (PAYG)
system, funded through compulsory contributions to cover employees' Old Age, Disability, and Survivors
Insurance (IVM); employees' Health Care (SEM) and Workers' Compensation Insurance (RP). In 1979,
with the rise of the Sandinistas to power, a law creating the Sistema Unico de Salud was enacted and the
Ministry of Health became responsible for the provision of all health-related benefits. Subsequently the
government made INSS responsible for the provision of social assistance to non-insured sectors of the
population. Most of the programs under INSS administration were characterized by high evasion and
administrative costs, which negatively impacted INSS' finances, a problem common to PAYG schemes


                                                       - 2 -

throughout the world. Nicaragua's PAYG pension system was thus not sustainable in the long run, due to
the gap between benefits and contributions, and it covered only a 17 percent of the working age population.

5.       Interest in pension reform dated back to the early 1990s when the Government reviewed the options
for reform, but it was then decided to postpone pension reforms until a more favorable macroeconomic
environment, combined with a reinforced financial sector, could support the conversion from a PAYG to an
individually funded pension system. After a new government took office in 1997, there was renewed
interest in pension reform with a strong sponsorship from the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
(SETEC). A Japanese grant helped fund much of the technical work that served as the basis for the design
of this project.2 The analytical underpinnings of a pension reform strategy were contained in a Bank study
which provided a diagnosis of the social security system and made recommendations for pension reform
based on international best practices that were being applied in other countries.3 The Bank's Pension study
underscored the magnitude of the "implicit pension debt" of the social security system, which was expected
to reach 400 percent of GDP by 2030. The study's principal recommendations were: (i) a new
defined-contribution pension system should be established; (ii) the PAYG system should be closed to new
entrants and those younger than a certain age would also be transferred to the new system; (iii) a minimum
pension guarantee should be established; and (iv) the transitional costs would be financed from general
budget resources, pension fund reserves, issuance of treasury bonds and borrowing from international
organizations.

6.       By 1998, the Government was strongly committed to pension reform and was working on the
passage of a new pension law as early as 1999. A government commission charged with the design of the
pension reform was eager to begin implementation of the new system. In collaboration with the IMF and
the IDB, the Bank worked with the Government to design a Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) that would
assist the Government in the implementation of its pension reform agenda.

Financial System

7.       The banking system had been nationalized until 1991, when private banks were re-established,
banking supervision and regulation introduced4, interest rate and credit controls eliminated, and an
inter-bank foreign exchange market established.5 By the mid-1990s, there were 12 private banks operating
alongside the loss-making state-owned banks that were eventually closed or privatized. Of the private
banks, one was intervened in July 1996 (BECA) and its deposits were subsequently transferred to another
bank; the second intervention occurred in June 1999 (Banco del Sur) under similar liquidation procedures.

8.       The infant banking system grew quite rapidly during the mid 1990s, although it suffered from lack
of experienced bankers, a weak banking oversight institution with little experience in supervision,
inadequate prudential norms and a faulty legal framework which was not addressed until 1999 with the
passage of new banking and banking supervision laws as well as a new Central Bank law. Because of the
small size of the market, banks incurred high operating costs. All these factors rendered the banking system
vulnerable to internal and external shocks.

9.       A financial sector adjustment program prepared by the Government in 1998 aimed at significantly
strengthening the banking system and unwinding the state-owned banks. The Bank supported this strategy
with a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) which was approved in April 1998. The principal goals
of the FSAC had been to eliminate the state banking sector as a source of fiscal drain and financial
distortion; to strengthen the regulatory framework and supervision of the banking system; and to foster the
presence of private banks in the rural and agricultural areas. Hence, the FSAC did not explicitly address



                                                     - 3 -

financial sector issues associated to an eventual pension reform.

Original Objective

10.      The Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit (PFMRTAC) was
designed to provide assistance to the Government with its pension reform program. The project was
appraised on April 13, 2000, and approved by the Board on May 11, 2000.

Development Objective of the TA Project:

11.      As per the Project Appraisal Document and the Development Credit Agreement, the objective of
the PFMRTAC was to support the Government's plan to create a more equitable and sustainable system of
old-age income security for Nicaraguan workers and to develop the institutional capacity to effectively
regulate, supervise and manage the new system as well as to develop new financial instruments for pension
fund investments.

The specific objectives of the Project were to design and implement:

         1.       parametric changes to the PAYG pension system;
         2.       legislation and regulations enabling a mandatory, funded, defined contribution pension
         system of privately managed individual pension accounts
                  and the establishment of a regulatory entity for the new pension system;
         3.       a financing plan for the recognition of acquired rights under the PAYG; and
         4.       a small, targeted public pension guarantee for lifetime poor contributors.

12.      The PFMRTAC was designed to assist the Government in implementing pension system reforms.
The first step towards a more sustainable pension system was a parametric reform of the PAYG system
which included increasing contribution rates, raising the retirement age, standardizing eligibility
requirements, reducing replacement rates, increasing collection efficiency and tightening eligibility for
disability benefits. The Project was to provide technical support in determining the relevant set of
parametric changes.

13.      The second step was to implement a mandatory, funded, defined contribution (DC) pension system
of privately managed individual retirement accounts which had been introduced through passage of the
Pension Law in March 2000 (Law 340). The Project was to assist with the development of pension
regulations and the establishment of a Superitendency of Pensions (SIP). The decision to establish a
minimum pension guaranteed by the Government was made to provide an old-age income safety net to
poorer workers who contributed to the system during their work life.

14.      The project was designed to assist the Government with the analysis of the financial costs of the
transition from the PAYG system to the new defined contribution system. The Social Security system was
expected to continue to provide retirement pensions for existing retirees as well as those above a certain
age.

15.      The financial sector objective was to create a favorable environment for the creation of new
financial instruments for pension fund investments. The Project was also designed to provide institutional
support to strengthen the financial sector by upgrading the regulatory environment. Nicaragua's financial
sector was still in the very nascent stages of development and the options for long-term investment were



                                                      - 4 -

extremely limited. A strong banking sector was of particular importance during the early years of the
pension reform because a large portion of the financial resources was expected to be channeled through the
banking system.

16.      Bank staff had identified the principal risk as lack of political support and lack of agreement within
the Government on the implementation of pension and financial sector reforms. Implementation of the
pension reform required a well-defined action plan backed by strong Government commitment. It was
nevertheless concluded during appraisal that even if the new pension system were not to be implemented
due to lack of political will or capacity to make difficult decisions, the expected parametric reforms of the
old system would still make the project worthwhile. This conclusion would be a tell tale sign of what would
eventually become the Project's shortcoming.

Assessment of Development Objectives

17.      The design of the PFMRTAC was aimed at reducing future fiscal imbalances and providing an
equitable old age safety net. The perceived need for pension reform emerged from the expected explosive
growth of the long-term social security deficit to be generated by progressive population ageing. The
decision to switch to a defined contribution pension system was ­perhaps naively­ expected to eliminate the
Government's growing liabilities under the existing social security system. At that time, the Bank was also
of the view that developing a privately managed pension system would contribute to greater domestic
savings and the emergence of a dynamic capital market, which would help finance private sector investment
­in spite of the fact that the Government would still have to absorb resources from the market to keep
honoring existing pension liabilities.

18.      The Bank's overall strategy supported an important development objective. However, the specific
objectives of the chosen strategy did not adequately account for this strategy's financial viability. The Bank
underestimated the fiscal cost of the reform as well as the political capacity to deal with it. Since the Bank
identified the key risk posed by the lack of political support for the implementation of pension reform,
project design should have placed more emphasis on risk management options, including a less ambitious,
phased approach to the reform, focusing on institutional development of INSS and on additional in-depth
analysis of the costs associated with different options for pension reform.

19.      The timeline for accomplishing the project objectives was too short. It was expected that in three
years the Project could have achieved the four goals of adopting extensive parametric reforms of the PAYG
system, establishing a new regulatory agency for pensions, issuing public debt to recognize the
accumulated pension benefits of existing affiliates, and commit to a minimum pension benefit for all
affiliates of the new defined contribution system. The project also addressed a number of legal issues such
as approval of a new Social Security Law and reforms to the Pension Law (Law 340) that would have been
more appropriately handled by an adjustment operation. Project design should have considered a period
longer than three years.

20.      More in-depth analysis of the political environment and opposition to pension reform could have
pointed to a more conservative approach to the reform process. Pension reform was a priority of the
Government at the time the project was prepared, primarily within SETEC, but other political groups did
not share that view. For example, a member of the powerful opposition in the National Assembly referred
to the reforms as an "unacceptable privatization" of social security. Alternative political scenarios should
have been considered in determining the final design of the Project.




                                                       - 5 -

21.      The Bank's Pension Reform study which provided the analytical underpinnings of the Project
presented a very clear description of the strategy, but fell short in terms of the capacity for implementing
these reforms in Nicaragua and of magnitude of the fiscal costs. According to the Bank's analysis, there
were two fundamental issues: first, a parametric reform of the current social security system was essential
in order to align existing contributions with future benefits; and second, it was necessary to determine the
financing of the transitional costs associated with the shift to a funded, individually capitalized, defined
contribution system.

22.      Financing of the cost of reforms should have been evaluated much earlier in order to determine its
feasibility and the scope of the Project should have been adjusted in accordance with the Government's
fiscal capacity. As it turned out, calculations performed well into the period of the Project showed huge
deficits which eventually led the Government to repeal the reform process -although part of the increase in
the magnitude of the deficit could be attributed to the Government falling short on the parametric reforms
the Bank had assumed would be implemented. Nevertheless, greater use of quantitative criteria should have
been used in appraising the viability of the transition from a PAYG to a DC system based on an analysis of
public debt ratios before and after the reforms, the magnitude of the fiscal deficits with and without
reforms, and how the financing of the pension reform would affect other macroeconomic variables.

23.      While the Bank's approach was based on international experience at that time, it was not
adequately adapted to Nicaragua's capacity to undertake these reforms. A recent OED report on pension
reforms concluded that there are certain basic conditions for Bank support of multi-pillar pension reforms
including: (i) objectives for income distribution; (ii) macroeconomic feasibility; (iii) financial sector
readiness; (iv) a sound regulatory and supervisory framework; and (v) sufficient administrative capacity;
and in the case of Nicaragua these conditions were not met.6 With respect to macroeconomic feasibility,
clearer guidelines should be provided in terms of acceptable levels of transition costs and relative size of the
overall deficits associated with new pension systems.

24.      The objective of the project with respect to the financial sector was to help identify new financial
instruments for pension fund investments. While this was a very logical goal in terms of implementing the
new DC pension system, the financial system at the time was not ready for the introduction of long-term
financial instruments as demonstrated by the subsequent banking crisis. At the time of project preparation,
Bank reviewers expressed concerns about the frail condition of the banking system which had been in
operation for less than ten years, with the Superintendency of Banks still in its initial stages of
development. Once again, a more in-depth analysis of the problems in the banking system at that time
would have raised questions about the feasibility of the contemplated pension reform. On the other hand,
the project's financial system objective could have been designed as a separate goal of reinforcing the
institutional capacities of SBOIF and of upgrading of existing banking legislation.

3.2 Revised Objective:

25.      With the onslaught of a banking crisis in 2000, a new Government in 2002 that had a different
view on pension reforms, and concerns regarding the fiscal costs of the reforms, Project implementation
suffered notable delays and a lack of direction. As a result, the Bank proposed an amendment to the
objectives which was approved by the Board on October 28, 2003.7 The fundamental change was to make
the Project less ambitious by changing the four original objectives from design and implement to design
and begin the implementation of those objectives. However, this did not constitute a material change in
the development objective of the project, nor did it alter the content of the specific objectives, it simply
reduced the critical mass required for Project completion. In view of the disappointing outcomes of the



                                                       - 6 -

project, the revision to the objective may have proved to be too little too late. Perhaps a more realistic
approach would have been to downsize the scope of the Project from supporting the implementation of
pension reform to providing institutional support to INSS and SBOIF. Nevertheless, given that most of the
Project resources had already been committed at the time of the revision, these changes in the objectives
made it possible to continue to support some of the more productive components.

3.3 Original Components:


26.      In order to achieve the objectives the project was comprised of three output components8:

I. Pension Reform (US$ 3.0 million)9

·        Prepare a proposal for parametric reforms of the PAYG system such as the minimum retirement
age, contribution rates, vesting period and base salary of contributors.
·        Develop and implement a system for recognizing the pension rights acquired by workers in the
PAYG system.
·        Evaluate and improve INSS' information systems.
·        Implement [changed to "begin the implementation of"] a new defined-contribution pension
system, including drafting of: (i) regulations to the Pension Law; and (ii) legislation required for the
establishment and operation of a pension fund.
·        Evaluate the costs to the Borrower of providing a minimum pension guarantee and carry out a
social impact assessment of the pension reform [removed].
·        Review the fiscal costs for the Borrower of converting from the PAYG system to a new pension
system and analyze the financing options.
·        Carry out a public information campaign on the pension reforms.

II. Pension Supervision (US$1.0 million)

·        Develop the institutional and regulatory framework for the supervision of the pension system
through the establishment of a Superintendency of Pensions (SIP).
·        Develop and operate a system to monitor compliance with pension regulations.
·        Develop and implement a training plan for personnel of INSS, SETEC and SIP on pension
supervision.

III. Financial Market Development (US$3.5 million)

·        Identify new insurance and capital market instruments for pension fund investments [removed].
·        Review the regulatory framework for the supervision of insurance and capital market activities
[removed].
·        Strengthen banking and other financial sector institutions including the legal framework such as
drafting of secured transactions legislation for the issuance of mortgage-backed securities [removed].
·        Draft financial regulations in accordance with international practices and improve norms for bank
resolution procedures.
·        Carry out examination of banks and strengthen the skills of the examination staff through
on-the-job-training.

27.      Pension Reform. The pension reform program was designed to start by implementing parametric
reforms of the PAYG system in order to meet its technical reserves requirement; by acknowledging



                                                      - 7 -

worker's rights acquired under the PAYG, and then replacing the current system with a mandatory, funded,
defined contribution (DC) system. The parametric reform options included: retirement age, contribution
rates, vesting period, and base salary. In order to recognize pension rights the project called for a
reconstruction of individual work histories in INSS' data base. A broad evaluation of INSS' information
system would be performed in order to develop a work plan to modernize its IT systems and thus improve
collection and account management as well as to strengthen system controls. In order to implement the
parametric reforms of the PAYG and the new DC system, this component called for passage of a new
Social Security Law and the development of regulations to the Pension Law as well as passage of
legislation for the establishment and regulation of a pension fund. The next step was to prepare an estimate
of the fiscal cost of the transition to the new system and the ongoing costs of a minimum pension guarantee.
Once the implementation of the pension reform was underway, the Project was to finance a public
information campaign on pension reforms.

28.      Pension Supervision. This component was responsible for the establishment of a Superintendency
of Pensions (SIP) including the organizational structure and operating plans, the staffing of personnel, the
development of an operating system that could also be used in its supervisory activities, and to the
development of policies and procedures for monitoring compliance with pension regulations. The
development tasks for the new agency also included the specifications for the hardware, software and other
equipment needed to implement and enforce pension fund norms, to continuously monitor AFP performance
and to provide information to affiliates. In addition, to develop a training plan for supervisory personnel to
insure proficiency with computerized monitoring and evaluation systems.

29.      Financial Market Development. This component was to provide support for the analysis of the
legal, institutional and transactional characteristics of the capital and insurance markets in order to
determine needed reforms to enhance the financial system's capacity to support the growth of the pension
funds. The main goal was to identify and introduce new products for the pension market. In addition, the
component called for drafting of new prudential norms in line with international (Basel) standards and to
strengthen the skills of the bank examination staff through on-the-job training.

Assessment of Project Components

30.      The components of the project were consistent with the objectives, but as in the case of the
objectives, they were too ambitious. These activities were also premised on the Government's immediate
implementation of the new Pension Law (Law 340).

31.      Pension Reform. While all of the essential elements of a pension reform were incorporated in this
component, there was a need for a roadmap for the proper sequencing of these reforms. The decision on
which parametric reforms and what type of defined-contribution pension system to implement were
critically dependent on the validity of existing actuarial projections for the social security system and on the
costs to the Borrower of the pension reforms. The latter task should have been the starting point for the
program. The task of preparing a proposal for parametric reforms was important, but at the same time
there was a lack of emphasis on the consultative process with stakeholders and particularly on the political
realities and how they determined the feasibility of the parametric reforms, which called for sizeable cuts in
pension benefits and notable increases in contribution rates.

32.      One particularly pragmatic step was to perform an evaluation and subsequently enhance INSS'
information systems. This sub-component was a valuable contribution to the institutional development of
the organization by enhancing its efficiency.



                                                       - 8 -

33.      Lack of Bank expertise in the area of public information campaigns was reflected in the ambiguous
nature of this sub-component. Having had a clear road map for the reform process would have helped in
defining the role as well as the timing of the public information campaign. Greater guidance should have
been provided in terms of the design of the information campaign, the type of advocacy, the target
audience, and the timing for its implementation.

34.      Pension Supervision. This component was designed to regulate and supervise the new pension
system. Additional consideration could have been given to the relationship between SBOIF and SIP,
including the possibility of both being part of a single Superintendency. Potential economies of scope
combined with the relatively small size of the financial system would argue in favor of a unified regulatory
agency.

35.      Financial Market Development. A strong financial market is an essential ingredient for a
successful pension reform of the kind attempted in Nicaragua. In Nicaragua, financial markets were at a
very early stage of development, particularly in terms of capital markets activities. It does not seem realistic
to expect that new financial instruments could have been identified and successfully introduced in the
market in a short period of time. New instruments can successfully be introduced only if there is an
identifiable market need. Based on the experience of pension reforms in other countries, a large part of
pension funds have been invested in government securities. Perhaps a more productive approach would
have been to support initiatives to improve the liquidity and the trading infrastructure in the government
securities market.

36.      The sub-components dealing with the reinforcement of the regulatory environment of the banking
system turned out to be one of the more productive outputs in this project, even though it was only
indirectly linked to specific Project objectives. Two important steps in establishing a favorable environment
for financial innovation were the drafting of new banking norms and the strengthening of the skills of bank
examiners.

37.      Because of its influential role in the design of the pension reform strategy, the SETEC was
designated as the project coordinating agency to be assisted by INSS in the implementation of the pension
reform components and by SBOIF in the implementation of the financial system component. However, in
view of the critical importance of fiscal costs in the implementation of pension reform, the need to
recognize fiscal liabilities through the issuance of public debt and the design of a minimum pension
guarantee, it is surprising that the Ministry of Finance (MHCP) was not actively involved in the Project,
ideally as Project coordinator.
3.4 Revised Components:

38.      As explained in the section on Revised Objectives, the Project was amended on October 28, 2003
including changes to some of the components. The precise changes have been identified in the list of the
Original Components presented in the previous section. The principal change was the sub-component
dealing with the implementation of the new DC pension system which was changed to only begin
implementation. Several other sub-components were removed, including those in the Financial Markets
component dealing with the development of new financial instruments and with the regulatory framework
for the insurance and the capital markets. Following the banking crisis 2000 ­ 2001, the focus of this
component was principally on reinforcing banking regulations and supervision rather than the development
of new financial instruments. The revised components reduced the scope of the Project.




                                                       - 9 -

39.      The Project revisions also affected the management agency. The amendment removed SETEC as
the Project's Responsible Agency and assigned this role to MCHP with INSS, SBOIF, and SIP acting as
implementing agencies. With the change in Government in 2002, SETEC had been only marginally
involved in project implementation. At the same time, MCHP played a key role in the debate on pension
reform, particularly on its fiscal implications, and was thus the principal stakeholder within the
Government.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

40.      Quality at entry of the PFMRTAC is judged to be unsatisfactory. While the Project objectives
were in line with the Government's pension reform agenda, and were reflected in the Bank's 1998 CAS as
an important component of its private sector development strategy, the design of the operation did not fully
reflect the capacity on the ground to implement the reforms. Even though the design of the reform program
was based on the Bank's own experience with pension reform in other countries, more attention should
have been paid to the specific country conditions. The political and financial obstacles eventually led to the
repeal of the DC pension reform (Law 340) by the Government. On the other hand, the experience with
pension reform in other countries has shown a similar pattern in terms of an overly-optimistic assessment
of the fiscal costs.

41.      The Bank's Pension Reform study addressed a number of issues associated with the reform of the
pension system, but was rather shallow in terms of the quantitative analysis of the deficit arising from the
reform itself, and of its financing. To some extent, the Bank's appraisal took for granted the capacity to
finance the fiscal costs of the reform. The analytical work should have paid more attention to the
sequencing of the reform and the capacity to implement it. The Bank should have assessed the feasibility of
the reform based on quantitative as well as qualitative criteria. The financial analysis of the cost of the
reform and its financing should have taken into consideration the consequent impact of the reforms on the
government's fiscal performance and the macroeconomic implications of the fiscal costs. The Bank also
underestimated the political opposition to the reforms as well as the lack of political capacity to implement
them, which subsequently stalled the decision making process and thus the reforms. Passage of the new
Pension Law (Law 340) seemed to demonstrate a strong Government commitment to the reforms; however,
the difficult part was the implementation, particularly the initial tough decisions associated with the
parametric changes to social security that were expected to curtail benefits and increase the contribution
rate. A TAC was not the appropriate instrument to support reforms of such magnitude, which would have
called for an adjustment (or development policy lending) operation.

42.      The institutional development goals of reinforcing INSS' operational capacity and SBOIF's
supervisory capabilities were good components of the Project. The initiatives to reinforce the banking
system benefited from the Bank's earlier work with the FSAC, which ensured a good understanding of the
banking system and its challenges. The implementing agencies, INSS and SBOIF, were well prepared to
oversee the institutional development components of the Project. The procurement aspects of the Project
were well structured with emphasis on building up the Borrower's project management capacity in line with
international procurement standards.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

43.      Outcome of the PFMRTAC Project is deemed as unsatisfactory. The Government's repeal of
the pension reform has made achievement of this objective a moot point. The recently passed Social



                                                     - 10 -

Security Legislation (Law 539: see box on chronology of legislation) raises new concerns about the fiscal
sustainability of old-age income security. Only one of the specific objectives was partially achieved, the
implementation of one of the parametric reforms to the PAYG system (the increase in the contribution rate
from 5.5 percent to 10.0 percent), which has significantly improved the financial performance and
medium-term outlook for INSS. The institutional strengthening of INSS and SBOIF supported by this
Project has also made a very positive contribution to the management of the social security program and to
the capacity of the banking system to invest the reserves of the social security system. The banking system
has expanded and continues to show healthy financial performance. The positive outcomes in institutional
development of INSS and SBOIF have been, however, overshadowed by the Project's faulty design.

Social Security, Pension Reform and Old-Age Income Security

44.       The process of pension reform began with the passage of Law 340 in 2000, and was definitely
halted with its repeal, and that of Law 388 (Superintendence of Pensions), in November 2005. As explained
in the section on Project design, the purpose of this Project was to assist in the implementation of Law 340.
On the other hand, had the pension reform been implemented as determined by the new Law, and without
the full extent of the parametric changes contemplated in the original design of the project, the resulting
financial costs would have compromised the fiscal viability of the government. Instead, the increase in
social security contributions has allowed INSS to continue to provide coverage with a stable outlook for the
medium term, but without providing a solution for the long-term problem of old-age income security in
Nicaragua.

45.      Fiscal costs. While the analysis of the cost of pension reform was done too late to have prevented
the resource costs incurred through this Project, it nevertheless provided the government with an in-depth
assessment of the trade-offs between old-age security and fiscal stability, which will be very useful in any
future debate on pension reform. Unfortunately, the political fallout from backtracking on the reform was
also a contributing factor to the framing of the new Social Security Law (Law 539), which now aims to
keep old age pension under the control of the public sector.

46.      After the initial turmoil triggered by the disclosure of the huge fiscal price tag for pension reform
as estimated by the Bank and by INSS' consultants in 2003, the search for a solution to the pension reform
challenge took two different routes. A Technical Commission on Social Security appointed by President
Bolaños prepared an in-depth evaluation of the reform proposals and recommended alternative options to
the original design of pension reform that would have significantly reduced its fiscal cost. Concurrent with
the Technical Commission's proceedings, the National Assembly, which did not share the same goals as the
Government, adopted its own views of pension reform in the form of the new Social Security Law (Law
539). The recent decision to suspend the implementation of Law 539 until January 2007, keeps the door
open for a political compromise that could address some of the original objectives supported by this
Project.

47.      INSS. From a deficit position in the 1990s, INSS re-established operational surplus as a result of
the increase in contribution rates supported by this Project. INSS also benefited from an improved IT
infrastructure which has increased its operational efficiency (see INSS financial indicators in Annex 1).
Given political willingness to make additional parametric reforms to the existing PAYG system, it would be
possible to further strengthen the medium-term outlook while searching for a less ambitious version of the
DC system.




                                                      - 11 -

           Chronology of Principal Legislation of Social Security & Pension Reforms

Organic Law of Social Security (LOSS: December 1955)
INSS established as an autonomous institution in charge of administering the mandatory social insurance
program. Programs included: Old Age, Disability, Survivors Insurance; employees' Health Care; and
Workers Compensation Insurance (added in 1959).

Social Security Law (Law 974: March 1982)
Ministry of Health assumes responsibility for the provision of all health related benefits. INSS hospitals
and clinics were transferred to the Ministry of Health. INSS is renamed to Nicaraguan Institute of Social
Security and Welfare (INSSBI) assuming responsibility for unfunded social programs.

Decree Reforming INSS (Januarv 1995)
INSS resumes its role as an autonomous entity responsible for workers' benefits. INSS is once again
assigned responsibility for healthcare benefits of affiliates. New unfunded programs were created to be
administered by INSS.

Law Establishing the Defined Contribution Pension System - Pension Reform (Law 340: April 2000)
The Law establishes the legal framework for the DC pension system. Contributions are considered as
savings of individuals that will yield future benefits depending on their level of contribution and earnings
on those savings. Individual accounts to be managed by AFPs.

Increase in Pension Contribution Rates (Decree 32-2000: April 2000)
Decree increases the mandatory contribution rate to 10.0 percent for Old Age, Disability, and Survivor
insurance.

Organic Law of the Superintendency of Pensions (Law 388: March 2001)
Law establishes SIP as an entity in charge of regulating and supervising the DC pension system.

Draft Law to Repeal Pension Reform Law submitted to National Assembly in 2004
Text of the law was submitted to the National Assembly but was not acted upon; instead, the text to repeal
the pension reform was subsequently included in Law 539.

Organic Law of Social Security (Law 539: Mav 2005)
Features of the new Law include: Increased benefits for affiliates. The National Assembly nominates as
well as designates the Executive President of INSS. SIP is eliminated and replaced by the Superintendency
of Social Security and Health. Repeals Laws 974,340, and 388.

Framework Law Suspending Law 539 (October 2005)
This legislation suspends the implementation of Laws 539 until January 20, 2007. The President and
members of the National Assembly elected in 2006 could accept or reject this law on or before the stated
deadline.

Laws 340 and 388 are repealed (November 2005)




48.      SIP. The outcome of the Pension Supervision component will depend on the political decisions
regarding the suspension of the social security legislation. According to Law 539, SIP will be reorganized
as the new Superintendency of Social Security and Health to oversee INSS. Thus, an assessment of the



                                                          - 12 -

outcome of this component will depend on how the legislative deadlock is resolved.



Financial Market Development

49.      The banking system expanded at a healthy pace and the existing banks are operating on a sounder
basis. The Project's banking component helped trigger SBOIF's restructuring process. On-site supervision
was reinforced and the off-site department was expanded with greater coordination between the two areas.
The support provided by this Project to SBOIF was instrumental in the orderly resolution of the banking
crisis. The liquidation of the residual assets of intervened banks, that were held by the Central Bank, was
very helpful in the clean up of the banking problems and contributed to a reduction in the overall cost from
the bail out. The Project also helped to strengthen SBOIF's capacity to prevent another crisis in the future.

Banking Crisis 2000 - 2001

50.      Soon after the PFMRTAC project became effective, a banking system crisis unfolded. The crisis
was rooted in Nicaragua's relatively young banking system that was vulnerable to internal and external
shocks. In the late 1990s the impact of Hurricane Mitch and the subsequent collapse of coffee prices left
many borrowers unable to repay their loans. The slowing down of economic activity and of foreign capital
inflows in 2000 added stress to the banking system, while several instances of outright fraud had remained
undetected by the banking superintendency. The support provided by the Project through the assisted
inspections played an important role in identifying the problem banks and their specific asset problems and
in recommending an appropriate case-by-case strategy to resolving the problem.

51.      The banking crisis was triggered when four banks (accounting for close to 40 percent of banking
sector assets) experienced difficulties in meeting their liquidity and capital adequacy requirements and had
to be intervened. Interbank was intervened in August 2000 after serious irregularities were discovered and
the bank was unable to meet its reserve requirement obligations. Bancafe was intervened in October 2000
after suffering significant losses. Bamer was intervened in April 2001 due in part to large exposures to
related parties. Banic was intervened in August 2001 due to poor asset quality dating back to the period
when it was a state-owned bank. The deposit liabilities of the intervened banks were assumed by other
banks who received the good assets of the intervened banks, plus Government bonds (CENI) to cover any
gap between deposit liabilities and assets. The Bank continued to provide support to SBOIF during this
period through the assisted inspections and other institutional development initiatives.

52.      Even with the crisis and the weakening of the economy during 2001 ­ 2002, the banking system
posted very strong profitability as shown in the table below. This is explained by the fact that the acquiring
banks received the good assets of the intervened banks while the government assumed the cost of the clean
up. Total costs of the bailout measured in terms of CENIs that were issued by BCN amounted to US$519.4
million or about 13.0 percent of GDP. The impact of the crisis on the operations of the banking system is
captured by the trends in lending activity. Net loans to assets fell from 56.3 percent in 1999 to 34.4 percent
in 2001, at the height of the crisis, and then recovered to 45.1 percent in 2004, as the banking system
recovered quickly and resumed its growth trajectory (see table in Annex 1).




                                                       - 13 -

Banking System: Selected Indicators

                                                     2000        2001          2002         2003        2004
  Total Assets US$s millions                    $    1,816   $   1,906    $    1,992  $    2,150   $   2,402
  Return on Equity (% of avg. assets)                21.80       31.80         26.90       29.10       35.00
  Number of banks:
    Banks (active)                                      10          10             6            6           7
    Banks in process of liquidation                     NA         NA              4            4           2


  Source: SBOIF and Annex 1 Table




Developments in Banking Supervision and Regulations

53.     As a result of the assisted inspections and the development of banking norms, inspectors began to
focus on other important risk areas such as internal controls, management, policies and procedures, internal
auditing, and IT. They subsequently adopted the CAMEL rating system. More recently SBOIF has begun
to implement supervisory practices in line with the concept of consolidated supervision such as the
definition of related parties and consolidation of financial groups including offshore affiliates.

54.     The policy dialogue between the Bank and the Nicaraguan authorities was significantly enriched by
the FSAP concluded in early 2004 and the authorities began to actively work on the implementation of the
recommendations of that report to bring SBOIF in line with the BASEL standards of supervisory practices.

55.     The upgrading of prudential norms has made an important contribution to banking supervision;
however, the application of these norms takes time as individual inspectors go through the learning process.
SBOIF's strategic plan should continue to emphasize the need for gradual assimilation of new techniques
and to ensure it has the resources to implement the new supervisory practices effectively. At the same time,
banks should also be given adequate time to implement the new norms with appropriate follow up in
subsequent examinations. Continued Bank support of SBOIF, particularly the recent initiatives in
micro-credit, would help strengthen the positive outcomes supported by the PFMRTAC.

4.2 Outputs by components:

56.     Project implementation was considered satisfactory during the first half of its life; however, after
the change in Government, in 2002, there was a loss of ownership of the Project and thus progress on the
Pension components slowed noticeably. The principal counterpart agency, SETEC, was no longer an active
participant in the Project thus resulting in delays in implementation. The financial markets component
assumed a more important role in view of the banking crisis during 2000 ­ 2001.

57.     Without clear political guidance, project implementation was rated as unsatisfactory during 2003
following the Mid-Term review by the Bank. Lack of leadership with respect to the pension reform process,
or the impossibility of reaching a consensus in a divided political field, had compromised progress on
implementation. The Bank then tapped into the HIPC process to raise the issue of pension reform to a
higher level of priority. However, Bank staff considered that even with the HIPC conditionality calling for a
roadmap on pension reform it was not going to be possible to accomplish the original goals of the Project.



                                                      - 14 -

The restructuring of the Project thus made the objective less ambitious by requiring the Government only to
begin to implement rather than to implement the reforms.

58.       As part of the Project restructuring, the Bank also negotiated with the Government the appointment
of MHCP as the Project coordinator with INSS, SIP, and SBOIF acting as implementing agencies. This
decision helped to get the implementation process back on track and assured that the Project manager was
going to be an agency with a strong interest in the fiscal cost of the pension reform, which at the time of the
restructuring had become the critical issue for this Project.

I. Pension Reform

59.       This component represented the backbone of the PFMRTAC in terms of the design and
implementation of the parametric reforms to INSS and of the new DC pension system.

Social Security and INSS

·         Some parametric changes to the existing Social Security system were implemented, mainly an
increase in the contribution rate from 5.5 to 10.0 percent, which coincided with the percentage contribution
rate that was to be applied under the new DC pension system. However, neither other agreed parametric
changes essential to reduce future fiscal liabilities, nor the reform of the Social Security Law (LOSS)
required for those changes to become effective, were implemented. The project was to provide technical
assistance in designing and implementing precisely these parametric changes.

·         Substantial progress was made in the determination of individual work histories for the accounts of
INSS affiliates.

·         An actuarial model was developed for INSS. This model will help the institution to estimate fiscal
costs and technical reserve requirements, as well as to conduct sensitivity analysis based on alternative
scenarios regarding parametric reforms or different economic assumptions. Since INSS does not have an
actuary on its staff, they can only make limited applications of the model without technical support from
consultants.

·         A major upgrade of INSS' IT-technology was undertaken with the goal of enhancing the
effectiveness of collections, expanding the coverage of the registry of information regarding individual
contributors and establishing linkages to the AFPs for the management of collections and funds transfers of
individual contributions. The new system was launched in May 2005 and during the initial period has
already contributed to an improvement in collections. Employers will have access to their reports through
the Internet and will be able to update their payroll information on-line. Commercial banks also have access
to the INSS data base in order to reconcile deposits of contributions by employers with their contribution
liabilities as determined by INSS.

·         Consultants were hired to work with INSS to draft a new social security law (LOSS) to make
changes to pension eligibility and other parametric variables. Work in this area was slow due to lack of
policy guidance, given that early in the implementation process the Government had already decided to
postpone passage of the new LOSS to the next administration, to be inaugurated in 2002.




                                                       - 15 -

Implementation of the Pension Law (Law 340)

60.      With the change in Government in 2002 and the fiscal costs of bailing out the problem banks
during 2000-2001, the pension component had been left behind. In 2003, the introduction of pension reform
conditionality into the HIPC called for the Government to resume the reforms and to issue licenses to the
AFPs. In response to the HIPC conditionality, the Government took a renewed interest in pension reform
and named a Superintendent of Pensions.

61.      Based on the initial design of the pension reform, all affiliates of the social security system that
were older than 43 years were to remain in INSS and all those younger would be transferred to the new
system as members of an AFP. In order to reduce the operational costs of the new AFPs, it was planned
that INSS would continue to act as the collection agency and would transfer those funds to the AFPs.

·        Under the umbrella of the HIPC Initiative the Government agreed to produce a roadmap clarifying
the next steps of the reform process in order to ensure continuity of the process.

·        Those AFPs that were approved for an operating license by SIP proceeded to organize their new
entities hiring personnel, establishing their place of business, purchasing equipment and installing their
operating systems. When the pension reform was halted, the organizers were faced with the write-down of
their investments in the new AFPs.

Public Information Campaign

·        A public information campaign was designed and implemented coinciding with the electoral
campaign during the second half of 2001, when neither candidate was making pension reform an electoral
issue.

·        The campaign was aimed at Law 340. The consultant first prepared a market analysis and
developed a publicity campaign which included lobbying with stakeholders and disseminating information
to the general public. The campaign ran about six months.

62.      The timing of this sub-component was not well thought out and perhaps inappropriate in terms of
the then ongoing presidential elections campaign. It was based on the premise that the new Pension Law
would be implemented immediately. As shown in the table below, about US$1.0 million was spent on the
communications campaign with very little to show in terms of political support or public understanding of
why the reforms were essential. TV and radio spots, as well as printed brochures, were aimed at how the
new system was going to work but did not address the reasons for the reforms.

Calculation of the Fiscal Cost of Pension Reform

63.      The fiscal cost of the new system was comprised of two components: first, the loss of contributions
from those affiliates that were to be transferred to the AFPs, which based on the initial cutoff age of 43
years represented about 70 percent of the working age population, while INSS would have to continue
covering pension liabilities with existing retirees, thus creating an immediate sizeable operational deficit;
and second, those affiliates who were transferred to the AFPs were owed the cumulative value of their
contributions to INSS for all the years they had contributed, and the recognition of this debt was to be in
the form of a bond to be issued by the government, which would have been immediately reflected as an
increase in Government debt. In addition, the DC pension system was to provide a minimum pension



                                                      - 16 -

guarantee underwritten by the Government for those affiliates who failed to achieve a poverty-related
threshold of pension benefits upon retirement.

64.      The work financed by this Project to estimate the fiscal costs of the reforms moved slowly because
of the time needed to develop the actuarial model required to perform the calculations. Nevertheless, the
consultant who developed the actuarial model for INSS had already performed a preliminary estimate of
the initial costs of the switch to the DC system earlier in the Project implementation period, but those
results were not given sufficient consideration at the highest policy level. The definitive calculation of the
costs of the reforms were thus made (nearly four years) after the reforms had been enacted, and not as part
of the process leading to that enactment.

65       Following the Mid-Term review, the Bank's team and the technical staff of INSS worked closely to
update the estimates of the fiscal impact of the pension reform and the transition costs involved. The
analysis was performed using the actuarial model developed for INSS by the consultant financed through
the Project and the Bank's own pension simulation model PROST. The key finding was that the fiscal cost
of the existing social security system and the transition costs to the new system had increased dramatically
since the initial estimates based on 1997 data.

66.      When the first revised deficit projections were made known in September 2003, the Government
requested further Bank assistance in the analysis of the fiscal costs of the reforms. The Government formed
a Technical Commission on Social Security Reform to analyze the fiscal costs of the reforms and propose
policy options.10 The Bank provided training to the staff of the Commission on the use of the PROST model
in November 2003, and also hosted a meeting of the technical staff involved in the calculation of the
pension reform deficits in order to reconcile the differences in the output from the two models: INSS
(Melinksy & Assoc.) and PROST in May 2004. The differences in the output of the two models were due
to assumptions such as the use of different actuarial tables and macroeconomic assumptions, but more
importantly due to differences in the structure of the models and the data bases used in making the
projections. Despite the numerical differences, the key conclusion of this exercise was that each model
projected a rising and sizeable fiscal deficit arising from the pension reforms.

67.      The following chart shows the data (reproduced in Annex 1) on the definitive projection of the
fiscal burden of the pension reform, made using PROST by the Technical Commission in 2004. The series
labeled INSS represents the expected evolution of the fiscal burden of the existing social security system,
the series labeled L340 the fiscal burden of the reformed system, and the third series, labeled NET,
represents the second minus the first series, i.e., the net fiscal impact of the reform. Thus, the NET series
describes the projected flows of an "investment project" for the Government of Nicaragua, which was
offering highly hypothetical fiscal relief for the very distant-long term in exchange for certain, immediate
and long lasting fiscal ruin. Not surprisingly, the Government did not find this peculiar "investment
project" particularly appealing, and decided to scrap the pension reform plans, eventually repealing Law
340 in late November 2005.




                                                       - 17 -

                                        NICARAGUA
                                 Fiscal Impact as % of GDP


  10.00%

   8.00%

   6.00%

   4.00%

   2.00%

   0.00%

         0 2  4  6  8
  -2.00%              10 12 14 16 18 20 22  24  26  28   30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50


  -4.00%

  -6.00%

  -8.00%            INSS

 -10.00%            INSS+Law 340
                    NET Law 340
 -12.00%

                                      Years after the reform




  Pension Reform Component: Selected Bank-financed projects
  (amounts in US$ 000s refer to committed funds)

  Development of Information System for INSS (Netropology)*                  1,789
  Public Information Campaign (Radio & TV spots)                                702
  Public Information Campaign (JBQ)                                             354
  Advice on new Pension Law & Regulations (Bustamante)                          309
  Development of Pension System (KPMG)                                          190
  Training programs & travel (INSS & local consultants)                         178
  Development of actuarial model (Melinsky & Assoc.)                            120
  Development of new Organic Law of INSS                                         93
  Sub-Total                                                                  3,735
  Total for Pension Reform                                                   4,500

  * IT infrastructure work was divided between INSS and SIP, it was
  estimated at 65 percent of fee for INSS related work.
  Note: Name in parentheses refers to consultant.



Source: PCU


II. Pension Supervision

68.      The purpose of this component was to establish the organizational structure and to build the
supervisory capacity of the new Superintendence. Organizational problems combined with lack of
Government support for the reform process created a leadership vacuum in the agency until a new
Superintendent was appointed in 2003, as detailed below.

·        A new Superintendency of Pensions (SIP) was created with adequate staffing, and the required
procedures for the licensing of private pension fund administrators (AFP) were developed.




                                                              - 18 -

·        The first Superintendent was accused of corruption and had to leave the country in 2001. This
position remained vacant as a new Government in 2002 did not have a clear vision of pension reform and
the role of SIP. Delays in naming a new Superintendent until May 2003 also held back the process of
licensing new AFPs.

·        SIP staff enjoyed high levels of compensation and over-staffing, which eventually led to substantial
budget cutbacks by the MOF in 2003.

·        A consultant was hired to design and implement the IT ­ infrastructure to support the new pension
system as part of a joint project with INSS (as described above). Staff training and purchase of IT
equipment were also part of the institutional development initiatives.

·        With a new Superintendent in place, SIP engaged in a more aggressive strategy to attract
applicants for an AFP license. As of mid-2004, four domestic financial groups applied for a license and
three were granted a license to operate an AFP.

·        In response to concerns over possible conflicts of interest between the newly created AFPs, which
were all owned by financial groups which in turn owned banks, the Bank proposed that a Memorandum of
Cooperation be signed between SIP and SBOIF for the sharing of information           and for coordinating
other supervisory activities, as well as cooperating on the development of suitable norms establishing "fire
walls"between the investment activities of the AFPs and their related banking organizations.

  Pension Supervision Component: Selected Bank-financed projects*
  (amounts in US$ 000s refer to committed funds)

  Development of Organizational Structure and Operations
  System for SIP (GCI)                                                       785
  SIP: Acquisition of equipment (GBM, RT, J Icaza)                           189
  SIP: Financial information system (SoftPlan)                               126
  Sub-Total                                                               1,100
  Total for Pension Supervision                                           1,200

  * These figures have not been adjusted for the IT Infrastructure component that
  was a joint INSS & SIP project.
  Note: Name in parentheses refers to consultant.



Source: PCU


III. Financial Market Development

69.      In response to the banking crisis, Bank support under this component focused on strengthening
banking regulations and reinforcing banking supervision. The principal outputs included: (i) development of
an assisted inspections program to reinforce on-site supervision; (ii) drafting of prudential norms; (iii)
provision of technical support for the implementation of CAMEL ratings; (iv) provision of support during
the banking crisis; and (v) institutional development of SBOIF through advice, training, and purchase of
equipment. With the abrupt departure of the Superintendent of SBOIF in 2003, this component was
temporarily put on hold until a new Superintendent was named in 2004, thus limiting the output from this
component. The restructuring of the Project in October 2003 removed the other by then less relevant
sub-components of the financial markets ­ introduction of new pension and insurance products ­ and




                                                              - 19 -

reaffirmed the importance of institutional development of the SBOIF.

Program of Assisted Inspections

70.      This program was first proposed as part of the earlier FSAC but had been opposed by the banks as
well as the then Superintendent of Banks. With the arrival of a new Superintendent in November 1999, and
in response to his concerns over health of some of the banks, SBOIF requested that the Bank activate the
program.

·        The program of assisted inspections improved the capacity of local bank inspectors. International
experts accompanied local inspectors on on-site examinations and worked alongside their local counterparts
advising them on various inspection techniques.

·        This program was in place for approximately two years. During this period 15 experienced bank
examiners from banking superintendencies in other Basel compliant countries worked in collaboration with
local bank examiners. Following each bank inspection, internal workshops were held in SBOIF in order to
share the learning experience with other staff of the examination department.

Development of Prudential Norms

71.      This component was designed to upgrade banking norms which had not yet been adapted to the
new banking law of 1999 and were essential in order to meet the new international standards adopted in the
Basel accord.

·        With the guidance of a long-term consultant at the SBOIF, a work plan was prepared for the
development of new prudential norms. The number of completed regulations included 14 out of 17 norms
that had been identified as high priority. The following exhibit lists the principal regulatory norms that
were implemented under the support of this Project component.

Norms Developed by SBOIF

 External         Loan           Fgn. & Dom.      Overdrafts     Fit & Proper     Penalties &      Correspondent
 Audit            concentration  Deposits                        qualifications   sanctions        banking
 Internal         Valuation of   Investments      AML            Liquidity &      Credit Risk
 Controls         assets         in other                        interest rate    Bureau
                                 financial                       risk
                                 firms
 Asset            Related        Inspection       Compliance     Code of          Consolidated
 Classification   parties        Manual                          ethics           Supervision



Source: SBOIF


Liquidation of Central Bank Assets

72.      As a result of the banking crisis, BCN had accumulated residual assets of the intervened banks as
well as assets that had been put back by the banks that acquired the deposit liabilities of those institutions
under liquidations dating back to 1996. The eventual sale of these assets would help reduce the fiscal cost
of bailing out the banks. While the financial system component of the Project was aimed more at



                                                    - 20 -

strengthening banking supervision, this sub-project was an important step in the clean up from the banking
crisis.

·        Consultants were hired to prepare the assets for liquidation which included movable and fixed
assets as well as loan portfolios; to arrange for the valuation of the assets; to prepare the data room for
prospective bidders; to recommend the liquidator; and to supervise the process. An international firm with
extensive experience in asset liquidations, First Financial Network, was selected to auction off the assets.

·        The estimated value of the assets to be sold was approximately 5,739 million Cordobas, or
US$391.2 million. The process took about eight months to complete and yielded US$39.3 million or
approximately 10.0 percent of the book value of the assets. These recoveries were subsequently applied
towards the reduction in the overall cost of the banking crisis.

Financial Market: Selected Bank-financed Projects


        Financial Market Component: Selected Bank-financed projects

  (amounts in US$ 000s refer to committed funds)

  Assisted Inspections (various consultants)                                491
  Liquidation of BCN assets (Gómez, Revillas, Cerda)                        252
  On-site long-term international consultant (J Paz)                         87
  Equipment purchase (Datatex)                                               75
  Sub-Total                                                                 905
  Total for Financial Market Development                                  1,600

  Note: Name in parentheses refers to consultant.



Source: PCU



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

73.      This Project did not target a specific financial rate of return. However, in the evaluation of Project
benefits it was predicted that the implementation of the parametric reforms of INSS and of the new DC
pension system would result in a reduction of the Government's contingent social security liability by 33
percent. Since parametric reforms were not implemented to their full extent, and there was no shift to a DC
pension system, the promised long-term financial savings were not realized and ultimately unproductive
expenses were incurred, such as the early public information campaign, and the creation of the
Superintendency of Pensions.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

74.      The Institutional Development Impact of the PFMRTAC is considered substantial. Despite the
disappointing outcome, the Project made some important contributions in terms of institutional
development. While the Project was overly ambitious in terms of the objectives, it did provide useful



                                                       - 21 -

analytical tools as well as financial and organizational strengthening of INSS and provided critical support
to SBOIF during a banking crisis.

75.      With respect to old-age income security, the review of the costs associated with the conversion
from a PAYG to a DC system involved the development of an actuarial model (Melinsky & Assoc.) and
then combined with the use of the Bank's PROST model to first estimate the cost of the reforms, and
second, once the costs were estimated, to review alternative options for pension reform that would result in
lower fiscal costs. The decision by the President to name a Technical Commission on Social Security
Reform in 2003 produced an in-depth analysis that will serve as the starting point for any future
discussions on the topic.

76.      The organizational improvement within INSS was in part supported by initiatives financed by this
Project. The development of individual work histories and of an actuarial model for the determination of
technical reserves which was designed to interface with INSS' own databases represent important
institutional improvements. However, since INSS does not have a certified actuary on its staff, the proper
use of this actuarial model may require periodic use of the external consultants to supervise the use of the
model and interpret the results. The development of a new IT infrastructure has also enhanced INSS'
collections process. The new system was implemented in May 2005 and already the 300 largest
corporations are able to input their payroll information on-line. With respect to financial viability, the
increase in the contribution rate for old age pension in 2000 was made possible through the Project's
emphasis on adopting parametric reforms in order to ensure a financial balance in the PAYG system.

77.      The other important institutional development impact from the PFMRTAC was in the financial
market. The Project facilitated timely assistance to SBOIF at a critical time for the banking system when it
was rocked by the failure of several banks. The program of assisted inspections, the strengthening of
prudential norms; the enhancement of the off-site supervision function; the diagnosis of the organizational
structure of the Superintendency; and the assistance in the area of strategic planning made an impact on the
positive evolution of SBOIF during the period of the Project. Banking supervision has improved noticeably.
The Bank's contribution to the institutional development of SBOIF was instrumental in the development of
a still young superintendency.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

78.      The political and economic environment in Nicaragua has been subjected to both internal and
external shocks. On the political front, shifting political alliances and deep divisions between opposing
political parties have made it difficult to undertake unpopular decisions needed for the successful
implementation of pension reforms. Lack of political support kept the Government from moving forward
with parametric reforms that called for a higher retirement age and lower benefit rates. Political groups
were at odds over the course of pension reform, and the labor unions were opposed to it. A change in
government in 2002 brought a new team that did not share the same views on pension reform as the
previous administration. Greater sensitivity to the political landscape could have resulted in a less
ambitious project design.

79.      On the economic front, the aftershocks from Hurricane Mitch and the drop in world coffee prices
combined with fraudulent and unsound banking practices in several large banks triggered a banking system
crisis which heightened the importance of the financial market component of the Project. The aftermath of
this crisis led to a sizeable buildup in government debt that in turn reduced the appetite of the Government



                                                      - 22 -

to take on additional debt as a result of a shift from the unfunded PAYG to a funded DC pension system.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
80.      The Government was committed to pension reform but was less willing to assume responsibility
for the social impact of the pension reform in terms of higher contributions and reduced benefits. During
Project preparation the Government was strongly in support of the reforms and was able to get passage of
pension reform Law 340 which established the DC system. However, after supporting the increase in the
contribution rates for social security, interest in implementing other parametric changes to the PAYG
pension system waned.

81.      With respect to the banking system, the Government did not hesitate to assume higher debt
obligations in order to ensure the orderly resolution to the problem banks. This decisive action entailed a
high fiscal cost but it helped sustain the integrity of the banking system.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

82.      The original coordinating agency for the Project, SETEC, was chosen because of its initial role in
promoting pension reform within the Government. As the technical advisor to the Presidency, SETEC was
the principal sponsor for the Project. But at an operational level it was probably not a good candidate to
run a TAC project with important fiscal consequences as well as to support the institutional development of
the banking superintendency. After the change in Government in 2002, the new SETEC had a different
agenda regarding pension reform. When the Project was restructured and MHCP designated as the
coordinating agency, it introduced a more technically qualified party with a direct stake in the fiscal cost of
the reforms. Fortunately, the implementing agencies, INSS and SBOIF, were more directly involved in the
management of their respective policy areas and had a stake in the outcome of the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

83.      The Project was estimated to cost US$10.6 million of which the Bank was to provide US$8.0
million in financing. The Financial Market component was to be the largest component with US$3.7
million, followed by the Pension Reform with US$3.5 million. However, the cost of the Pension Reform
component was significantly above estimate, partly because of the large expense for the public information
campaign. Consultant expenses were significantly higher than budgeted since much of the activity of the
Project involved studies, organizational plans, IT software, and model building. The original allocation of
Project funds was thus changed twice during the period of implementation as shown in the table below.

  PFMRTAC: Allocation of Credit Funds
  (SDRs)
                                   Original    Revised       Revised
                                 Allocation     Aug-03         Jul-04
  Category
  Goods                           1,020,000     167,900       273,487
  Consultant Services             3,770,000   5,451,650     5,250,104
  Training                          510,000     180,450       276,409
  Unallocated                       500,000           -             -
  TOTAL                           5,800,000   5,800,000     5,800,000


Source: World Bank Client Connection




                                                       - 23 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

84.      Sustainability of the institutional development initiatives supported by the PFMRTAC and
actually implemented is considered as likely. Despite the partial achievement of Project objectives, the
institutional development impact in at INSS and SBOIF is expected to be sustained. At the same time, the
recent legislative decision to leave the laws dealing with social security reform in suspension until a new
Government takes office in 2007 makes the final outcome of the reform process still indeterminate.

85.      With the repeal of the pension reform Law the objectives of this Project were frustrated. However,
with the passage of Law 558, the Legislature has postponed final judgement on the reforms to the next
Government and legislators to be elected at the end of 2006. Recent political developments and the outlook
for the elections still indicate a substantial risk that pension reform will not be realized either as envisioned
in this Project, or in any other manner.

86.      Partial achievement of Project objectives was evident in the increase in social security
contributions, the institutional development of INSS and SBOIF and the effective management of the
banking crisis. The sustainability of these Project outcomes is considered as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

87.      Since the pension reform program was not implemented, transition arrangements were not made.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

88.      In the design of the Project, Bank staff relied on cross-country experiences with pension reform and
the lessons learned. The structure of the new pension system and the mapping of the transition appeared to
be consistent and financially sound. Yet in the Nicaraguan context where political and economic challenges
were formidable, such an undertaking proved to be too ambitious in terms of scope and timing. Greater
analysis of the qualifying criteria for pension reform would have been helpful. While risks were recognized,
the design was too complex and a more flexible or phased strategy may have been more appropriate.
Insufficient analysis of the financial costs of the transition from the PAYG to the new DC system as well as
of the political capacity to make those changes ultimately compromised the outcome of the Project. For
these reasons, Bank performance in Lending is considered unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:


89.      The Bank provided good support particularly in the area of institutional development of INSS and
SBOIF and in developing the new pension supervisory agency. However, the Bank should have maintained
a continuous dialogue with the Government on pension reform including during the transition to a new
Government in 2002. The decision to approve the public information campaign proved to be premature and
led to an expense of US$1.0 million with minimal impact. The decision to restructure the Project after the
Mid-Term review introduced some needed flexibility and helped to focus implementation on the areas that
showed greater potential for tangible outcomes such as the IT infrastructure at INSS and SIP and the
continued support of banking supervision. At the Bank's recommendation, the Government produced a


                                                         - 24 -

roadmap for the pension reforms which also helped to identify each step of the reform process and the
timeline, while additional work was being carried out on the calculation of the fiscal costs of the reform.
The Bank's engagement on banking sector issues ­ due largely to the attention captured by the banking
crisis was fairly continuous. Bank performance in Supervision is deemed satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

90.      Bank performance in lending is considered unsatisfactory due to the relevance of project design,
which did not capture the huge costs of the reform, as well as the lack of political support. Nevertheless,
the Bank did provide good support during supervision, particularly at the time that the Government was
evaluating the fiscal costs of the reforms. Taking into account the above evaluation of the Bank's role in
lending and in supervision, and particularly the adverse impace of loan design on outcome, overall Bank
performance is thus rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

91.      The Government worked closely with the Bank during Project preparation. SETEC was strongly
committed to the Project and the Government showed excellent initial results in getting the National
Assembly to pass the Pension Reform Law (Law 340). Nevertheless, the Government did not have a
consensus view as to the implementation of the program nor did it appropriately evaluate the fiscal costs as
well as political opposition and lack of political capacity to implement the reforms. The detrimental effects
of poor design and insufficient stakeholder commitment on project outcome result in performance rating of
unsatisfactory for preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

92.      The Government's decision to fully support the bailout of the banking crisis at a high fiscal cost
helped to avert a much greater systemic problem. The President's decision to name a Technical
Commission on Social Security provided a useful platform for inter-institutional discussion of the pension
reform, an activity that should have been done much earlier. On the other hand, the Government was unable
to make the unpopular decisions that were necessary to fully implement the parametric reforms of the social
security system. The lack of political resolve was partly the result of the divided political climate and a lack
of constituency support that weakened the presidency. Borrower performance during implementation is
considered unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

93.      The implementing agencies were supportive of the Project goals and complied effectively with their
project management responsibilities. With the change in Government in 2002, the initial project
coordinating agency SETEC lost interest in the management of the Project thus causing some delays in
implementation. When the Project was restructured and MHCP was designated as the coordinating agency,
the pace of Project activities improved. The other implementing agencies, INSS and SIBOIF, were strongly
committed to the Project and their participation was very satisfactory. Bank procurement analysts issued
satisfactory reports regarding the performance of the PCU. Implementing agency performance is thus
considered satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                     - 25 -

94.      While Implementing agency performance is considered satisfactory, both preparation and
implementation performance were unsatisfactory, which contributed to the disappointing outcome of the
project, and for that reason, overall Borrower performance is deemed unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

v        When political risks are high project design should be much less ambitious with respect to policy
reform commitments, possibly relying on a phased-strategy, particularly when project implementation may
continue into a subsequent administration. The outcome of the PFMRTAC was undermined by insufficient
analysis of political risks.


v        Short and medium-run costs of reforms may be unacceptable despite potential long-term benefits.
Lack of political capacity to implement additional parametric reforms of the PAYG system undermined the
reform program.


v        Lack of Borrower ownership will delay project implementation and undermine outcomes. With a
new Government in 2002, interest in the pension reform waned. The Bank should have been more proactive
in terms of policy dialogue with the Borrower during this period.


v        Project design should not be too ambitious but based on capacity on the ground. In the case of the
PFMRTAC the lack of technical expertise to calculate the expected fiscal cost of the pension reforms, and
the relatively weak condition of the banking system should have called for a phased-approach to the
reforms.


v        Project appraisal should include an in depth analysis of financial and political risks. In the case of
pension reform, a decision to approve a project should be based on established quantitative and qualitative
criteria drawn from documented Bank policy.


v        Public information campaigns should follow, not precede, the implementation of a reform and
should focus on the reasons for the reforms, and present realistic expectations of their benefits. Knowing
how to sell a reform is just as important as the technical aspects of its design. In view of the Bank's limited
expertise in this area, perhaps more resources should be invested in developing an in-house expertise in the
design of public information campaigns. In the case of the Project, the information campaign was launched
before the decision to implement the reforms had been made. At the same time, the timing of the
information campaign was inappropriate in view of the ongoing presidential elections.


v        Having the right project coordination agency will result in a better implementation experience.
Since one of the core objectives of the pension reform was to reduce the fiscal burden of the pension
system, it is surprising that MCHP was not selected to act as the principal project coordinator from the
start.


v        TA projects can be very effective in institutional development. The successful outcomes of this
project were related to the institutional development initiatives at INSS and SBOIF. In each case the Bank
supported well defined activities that had an immediate, measurable impact on the efficiency of each
agency.


                                                     - 26 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Mr. Mario Arana Sevilla, Minister of Finance, has sent the following letter:

"The Ministry of Finance agrees with the report's conclusion that the design and implementation of a
funded pension system in Nicaragua were not appropriate given the country's political, macroeconomic,
fiscal, and social conditions.

In 2004, the Government took decisive steps to halter the implementation of Law 340, the Pension Savings
System Law. The transition into the funded system would have caused an unsustainable fiscal cost that
would have imperiled the macroeconomic stability of the country. Consequently, Law 340 was suspended
in 2004 and recently repealed in November 2005.

 Additionally, the Government recognizes that maintaining the current pay-as-you-go system is not an
option due to its structural imbalance. While the current pension system is not in danger of going into
deficit in the near term, a fundamental reform is required.

Since the suspension of Law 340, there have been several efforts to design alternative pension schemes. A
President-appointed National Commission explored proposals for pension reforms, including parametric
changes, a multipilar model, and a notional accounts system.

 At the same time, Congress prepared and approved a parametric reform on its own, namely, Law 539,
which was motivated by the political conflict between the Executive and Legislative branches. This law
was in essence a reverse parametric reform, increasing benefits and creating immediate fiscal problems.
The Government succeeded in suspending Law 539 in October 2005 as part of a national political
agreement.

Going forward, the Government realizes that the pension reform process needs to build on greater political,
social, and government consensus. In order to achieve such goal, the Ministry of Finance plans to establish
in 2006 a new commission, which is to include high level officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Social
Security Agency, the Central Bank and Congress' Economic Commission. Their main mission is twofold.
First, they are to make a specific recommendation of a pension scheme that would move Nicaragua's
pension system into actuarial solvency. Second, they must propose the steps and timeline for implementing
their recommendation.

Pension reform remains a high priority for the current administration. The Ministry of Finance is firmly
committed to leading this effort at an orderly pace. Its objective is to address the long-term imbalance of
the current system through an open deliberative process with broad participation by relevant stakeholders."

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information



                                                    - 27 -

Endnotes

1. See Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua, Report No. 17496, March 18, 1998.
2. Japanese Grant for Pension System and Financial Sector Reform Program, Grant Number TF025322
for $750,000, June 1998.
3. Nicaragua: Pension Reform Proposal, Report No. 19669-NI, April 3, 2000.
4. The Superintendency of Banks and other Financial Institutions (SBOIF) was established in 1991.
5. At the time of nationalization, existing private sector banks were consolidated under BANIC, the only
commercial bank operated by the state during the period of nationalization along with BANADES the state
development bank as well as other small state-owned banks.
6. See Bank Assistance to Pension Reform and the Development of Pension Systems, by OED, September
23, 2005.
7. See President's Memorandum entitled Nicaragua: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical
Assistance Project ­ Proposed Amendment to the Credit Agreement,October 20, 2003.
8. Those items in italics were subsequently changed or removed as explained in the subsequent section
9. Amounts in US$ are derived from the PAD, based on a US$ / SDR conversion rate of US$1.38/SDR.
In addition to the above figures for the three components, the Bank allocated US$0.5 million for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), for a total of US$8.0 million.
10. The Technical Commission was composed of representatives from INSS, MHCP, BCN and SIP. Their
findings were subsequently released in a report: Impacto de Implementacion de Ley 340, Sistema de
Ahorro para Pensiones (SAP), September 2004.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                 Table 1. Nicaragua: Output and Impact Indicators for the PFMRTAC

              Expected Output /Outcomes                              Actual Output / Impact Indicators
Overall Outcomes:
Decrease in Public Sector debt                            While the internal debt of the public sector has decreased
                                                          from 50.0 percent in 2002 to 29.4 percent of GDP in
                                                          2004, this improvement cannot be attributed to the
                                                          implementation of the PFMRTAC.
Improved coverage of old-age income protection            Reforms were not implemented.
Improved targeting of public pension payments and         The development of an actuarial model that interfaces
actuarial performance of pension system                   directly with INSS' database will permit the agency to
                                                          monitor its pension liabilities.
Increase in financial market activity                     Total assets of the banking system in US$ terms have
                                                          grown an average of 7.2 percent per annum during 2000
                                                          ­ 2004 in part as a result of the financial market support
                                                          provided by this Project.

Project Outputs:
1. Pension System Reform
Decrease in old age dependency ratio                      Reforms were not implemented.
NPV of public pension debt shrinks by at least 33 percentReforms were not implemented.
Individual work histories established by INSS             Work completed on approximately 350,000 affiliates.
Regulations to legislation establishing private pension   Legislation approved, Law 340, prior to Loan approval,
funds is approved.                                        but was subsequently placed in a legal limbo as its repeal
                                                          was submitted to the National Assembly and then put on
                                                          hold until 2007.
Rules and eligibility criteria for minimum pensions have Reforms were not implemented.
been established

2. Pension System Supervision:
Pension supervisory agency in operation                   SIP was established, but with the repeal of Law 388 its
                                                          existence is in question.

3. Financial Markets Development:
Updated and improved banking and other financial          Approximately 22 norms were developed addressing the
sector norms introduced                                   main areas of risk in the banking system.
Improved loan inspections                                 Based on examiners' responses: bank management
                                                          practices have improved with weaknesses in the area of
                                                          policies and procedures, while asset quality remains a
                                                          main concern.

                                                          Based on banks' responses: examinations have become
                                                          more thorough although standards tend to change from
                                                          one examination to the next and the completion of the
                                                          examination report tends to take longer.




                                                       - 29 -

                              Table 2. Nicaragua: Selected Economic Indicators

                                                 1998    1999      2000         2001       2002      2003       2004        2005
National income and prices
Nominal GDP (USD billions)                       3.573   3.742     3.936       4.016       4.007    4.135*     4.354**    4.519***
Real GDP growth (% p.a.)                          4.1     7.4        5.9          3.0       1.0      2.3*       3.7**       3.8***
CPI inflation (period average)                   13.0     11.2      11.6          7.4       3.9      5.2         8.4         9.4
Nominal 90-day deposit rate (%                   10.8     11.8      10.8         11.6       7.8      5.6         4.7         4.2
p.a.)

Saving and investment
Gross national saving (% of GDP)                  2.3     1.4        2.6          9.3      10.4     12.0*       11.8**     11.9***
Gross domestic investment (% of                  33.8     43.3      34.7         31.0      32.1     31.5*       32.4**     31.3***
GDP)

External sector
Trade balance (% of GDP)                         -39.8   -52.1     -41.2        -25.3      -26.4    -27.0*     -28.8**     -29.1***
Current account balance (% of                    -38.7   -47.7     -38.3        -22.9      -20.3    -19.6*     -20.5**     -19.4***
GDP)
Exchange rate COP/USD (end of                    11.2     12.3      13.1         13.8      14.7      15.6       16.3        16.7
period)
Gross international reserves (in
months of imports)

Public sector
Nonfinancial public sector - primary             N/A      N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A      N/A         N/A         N/A
balance (% of GDP)
Nonfinancial public sector - overall             -4.1    -14.1     -13.9        -19.0      -13.3    -10.2*      -5.9**     -4.2***
balance (% of GDP) before grants
Combined public sector primary                   -0.1    -10.1     -10.0           -       -5.3**   -2.8**      -3.2**      -2.3**
balance (% of GDP) before grants                                                11.9*
Combined public sector balance (%                -3.6     -7.0      --8.1        -9.2       -5.5    -4.4*       -1.7**      0.7***
of GDP) after grants

Debt
Total external debt (% of GDP)                   251.4   238.1     193.3       169.2        N/A      N/A         N/A         N/A
Total public debt (% of GDP)                     346.5   331.3     315.0       213.7       212.3    208.4*     117.9**    112.7***
      of which: domestic (% of GDP)               42.5    35.3       41.0         38.0      50.1     45.7*      41.3**      38.7***
       of which: external (% of GDP)             304.0   296.0     274.0        175.7      162.2    162.7*      76.6**      74.0***

Sources: IMF International Financial Statistics (November 2005), the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th Reviews Under the 3-year Arrangement
Under the PRGF (November 2004), the IMF Article IV Consultation (February 2003), the IMF Selected Issues and Statistical
Appendix (December 2002) and the IMF Statistical Appendix (October 2001); * figures are preliminary as stated in the IMF 5th and
6th Reviews Under the 3 ­year Arrangement Under the PRGF (November 2004), ** figures are programmed, *** figures are
projected




                                                            - 30 -

                   Table 3. Nicaragua: Banking System Selected Indicators

                                                1999        2000   2001    2002    2003    2004
(millions of Cordobas)
Total Assets                                  23,352      23,718  26,387  29,232  33,432  39,231
 Of which:Net Loans and Leases                13,153      11,239   9,085  10,459  13,758  17,695
  Net Loans / Assets (%)                        56.3        47.4    34.4    35.8    41.2    45.1


Past Due as % of Total Loans *                    2.2        4.3     3.3     3.4     2.7     2.2


Percent of Avg. Assets:
 Net Interest Margin                                        7.13    7.38    8.17    8.60    8.10
 Administrative Expenses                                    7.30    6.00    6.50    6.60    5.10
 Return on Equity                                          21.80   31.80   26.90   29.10   35.00


Number of financial intermediaries:
 Banks (active)                                              10      10        6       6       7
 Finance Companies                                             3       3       4       3       3
 Insurance Companies                                           5       5       5       5       5
 Development Finance Banks                                     1       1       1       1       1
 Banks in process of liquidation                             NA      NA        4       4       2


Memorandum:
Total Assets US$s millions                $    1,896    $  1,816 $ 1,906 $ 1,992 $ 2,150 $ 2,402
Exchange Rate (Cordobas /US$)                 12.318      13.057  13.841  14.671  15.552  16.329


* NOTE: Information on asset quality is available as of 2004
Source: SBOIF




                                                - 31 -

                            Table 4. Nicaragua: Social Security System Indicators

                                                 1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
Social Security Institute (INSS):
Old Age, Disability, and Survivors Insurance
(Cordobas, thousands)
Income                                        538,962   881,212  1,168,806 1,279,129 1,429,345 1,538,777 1,715,649
Contributions                                 423,304   757,070  1,022,799 1,078,658 1,197,330 1,393,477 1,573,636
Transfers from Treasury                             0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Interest on Investments                       114,820   122,335   143,862   197,756   225,170   138,361   136,508
Other Income                                      838      1,807    2,146     2,715     6,846     6,939     5,505

Expenses                                      633,519   802,457  1,053,065 1,150,281 1,227,844 1,334,130 1,540,537
Total Benefit Payments                        515,010   679,598   878,244  1,017,831 1,133,546 1,264,247 1,467,596
Pension Benefits                              514,323   679,129   877,637  1,016,653 1,132,586 1,262,901 1,466,155
Medical Benefits                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Other Benefits                                    687       469       608     1,178       960     1,346     1,442
Administrative Expenses                       118,509   122,859   174,821   132,450    94,299    69,882    72,941
Capital Expenditures                                0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Net Income                                    (94,557)   78,755   115,741   128,848   201,501   204,648   175,112


INSS: Minimum Pension Payments
(amounts in Cordobas)
Minimum Pension
Ordinary                                          600       900       900       954       992     1,032
Reduced (Not qualifying)                                    450       550       583       615       669


INSS:

Number of affiliates                          282,112   308,531   314,181   311,500   319,975   348,251
Number of beneficiaries                         95,749   99,582   102,537   103,410   102,829   103,999


Social Security Institute (INSS):
Medical and Maternity Insurance
(Cordobas, thousands)
Income                                        560,746   643,264   765,902   817,258   914,839  1,194,220 1,338,889
Contributions                                 559,705   641,019   764,298   813,691   910,530  1,060,270 1,207,745
Transfers from Treasury                             0         0         0     1,859         0         0         0
Interest on Investments                             0         0         0         0         0   128,719   126,994
Other Income                                    1,042      2,246    1,604     1,708     4,308     5,231     4,150

Expenses                                      395,436   385,728   469,909   570,572   649,892   762,827   917,926
Total Benefit Payments                        303,081   312,825   376,896   496,708   564,863   661,401   812,061
Benefits and subsidies                          37,266   29,280    43,699    29,265    30,059    28,553    36,137
Medical Benefits                              263,069   281,667   330,767   462,730   530,964   627,464   770,157
Other Benefits                                  2,746      1,878    2,431     4,713     3,839     5,384     5,767
Administrative Expenses                         92,354   72,904    93,013    73,864    85,029   101,426   105,865
Capital Expenditures                                0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Net Income                                    165,311   257,536   295,993   246,686   264,947   431,393   420,962




                                                     - 32 -

Table 4. Nicaragua: Social Security System Indicators (contd.)


                                                1999     2000     2001     2002      2003     2004     2005
 Social Security Institute (INSS): Workers
 Compensation Insurance
 (Cordobas, thousands)
 Income                                       146,544  171,988  192,345  190,828  213,387   221,569  247,984
 Contributions                                115,056  138,191  152,856  161,083   178,721  208,174  234,970
 Transfers from Treasury                            0        0                 0         0        0        0
 Interest from Investments                     31,261   33,308   39,168   29,341    33,646   12,359   12,194
 Other Income                                     227      489      321      405     1,020    1,035      821

 Expenses                                      62,001   63,231   77,580   91,536  115,638   158,700  179,706
 Total Benefit Payments                        42,717   47,507   58,178   76,964    91,108  111,821  130,775
 Benefit Payments                              28,712   33,500   43,528   52,247    56,692   61,103   72,410
 Medical Benefits                              14,005   14,007   14,650   24,717    34,416   50,717   58,364
 Other Benefits                                     0        0        0        0         0        0        0
 Administrative Expenses                       19,284   15,725   19,402   14,572    24,530   46,879   48,931
 Capital Expenditures                               0        0        0        0         0        0        0
 Net Income                                    84,544  108,757  114,764   99,292    97,749   62,869   68,279
 Source: INSS




                                                   - 33 -

                  Table 5 : Fiscal Cost of Reforms: Alternative Projections


(% of GDP)
             Projection Based on              Projection Based on
           Melinsky & Assoc. Model                PROST Model
          INSS without                            INSS
             Reforms         Law 340            without    Law 340
                                               Reforms


   2003         0.00%          0.00%             -0.17%       0.00%
   2004         0.00%          0.00%             -0.09%       0.00%
   2005         0.00%         -1.25%             -0.04%      -1.54%
   2006        -0.32%         -1.65%              0.01%      -1.59%
   2007        -0.28%         -1.60%              0.05%      -1.65%
   2008        -0.28%         -1.60%              0.07%      -1.79%
   2009        -0.30%         -1.61%              0.07%      -1.90%
   2010        -0.36%         -1.66%              0.06%      -2.01%
   2011        -0.41%         -1.70%              0.05%      -2.14%
   2012        -0.50%         -1.79%              0.03%      -2.26%
   2013        -0.60%         -1.88%              0.01%      -2.38%
   2014        -0.75%         -2.02%             -0.01%      -2.55%
   2015        -0.91%         -2.16%             -0.04%      -2.68%
   2016        -1.09%         -2.33%             -0.09%      -2.81%
   2017        -1.25%         -2.48%             -0.14%      -2.99%
   2018        -1.44%         -2.65%             -0.20%      -3.17%
   2019        -1.64%         -2.83%             -0.27%      -3.30%
   2020        -1.88%         -3.04%             -0.33%      -3.41%
   2021        -2.10%         -3.22%             -0.41%      -3.54%
   2022        -2.33%         -3.02%             -0.50%      -3.88%
   2023        -2.56%         -3.96%             -0.60%      -4.08%
   2024        -2.82%         -3.71%             -0.72%      -4.09%
   2025        -3.06%         -3.51%             -0.85%      -3.89%
   2026        -3.29%         -3.22%             -1.00%      -3.64%
   2027        -3.49%         -2.98%             -1.15%      -3.37%
   2028        -3.71%         -2.71%             -1.31%      -3.11%
   2029        -3.91%         -2.53%             -1.48%      -2.88%
   2030        -4.07%         -2.28%             -1.66%      -2.64%
   2031        -4.22%         -2.06%             -1.86%      -2.39%
   2032        -4.38%         -1.86%             -2.06%      -2.16%
   2033        -4.52%         -1.70%             -2.27%      -1.97%
   2034        -4.68%         -1.52%             -2.50%      -1.83%
   2035        -4.82%         -1.38%             -2.75%      -1.71%
   2036        -4.93%         -1.23%             -3.01%      -1.57%
   2037        -5.02%         -1.09%             -3.28%      -1.44%
   2038        -5.07%         -0.98%             -3.57%      -1.34%




                                            - 34 -

   2039            -5.08%          -0.88%                -3.86%       -1.26%
   2040            -5.08%          -0.76%                -4.17%       -1.20%
   2041            -5.02%          -0.68%                -4.50%       -1.12%
   2042            -4.90%          -0.59%                -4.84%       -1.04%
   2043            -4.72%          -0.51%                -5.20%       -0.98%
   2044            -4.49%          -0.44%                -5.58%       -0.94%
   2045            -4.21%          -0.36%                -5.99%       -0.91%
   2046            -3.91%          -0.30%                -6.41%       -0.87%
   2047            -3.61%          -0.25%                -6.84%       -0.85%
   2048            -3.33%          -0.21%                -7.26%       -0.83%
   2049            -3.06%          -0.18%                -7.67%       -0.83%
   2050            -2.81%          -0.15%                -8.06%       -0.83%
   2051            -2.57%          -0.13%                -8.45%       -0.83%
   2052            -2.34%          -0.10%                -8.82%       -0.92%
   2053            -2.13%          -0.09%                -9.19%       -0.94%
   2054            -1.92%          -0.07%                -9.57%       -0.96%
   2055            -1.74%          -0.06%                -9.96%       -0.98%
   2056            -1.56%          -0.05%               -10.35%       -0.97%
   2057            -1.40%          -0.04%               -10.73%       -1.00%
   2058            -1.25%          -0.03%               -11.11%       -1.03%
   2059            -1.11%          -0.02%               -11.50%       -1.06%
   2060            -0.98%          -0.02%               -11.89%       -1.08%

The Melinsky projection was prepared in 2003.
The projection based on the Bank's PROST model was used by the Technical
Commission on social security reform in its September 2004 report.
NOTE: because of differences in assumptions, data base, and model structure
these figures are not comparable.




                                                  - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a: Project Costs and Financing

 Project Component      Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                                                          Appraisal
Pension System Reform        $ 3.5                  $5.6                    160%

Pension System                2.6                   1.8                     69%
Supervision


Financial Markets             3.7                   1.8                     49%
Development


Project Implementation        0.8                   1.4                     175%
Unit
                 Total        10.6                  10.6                    100%




Annex 2b: Project Costs and Financing by Procurement Method

 Expenditure             Procurement Method                      Procurement Method
 Categories              Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                 ICB    NCB     Other    NBF   Total     ICB    NCB     Other    NBF    Total
1 Works
2 Goods             1.0            0.5    0.35   1.85                      0.4     0.4    0.8
3 Services                         1.0    0.55   1.55                      0.4     0.8    1.2
4 Consultants                      5.5    1.70   7.20                      7.0     1.6    8.6
Total               1.0            7.0     2.6   10.6                      7.8     2.8   10.6




                                                - 36 -

Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalents)

Component         Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
               Bank Govern-       Co-      Bank  Govern-        Co-      Bank  Govern     Co-
                      ment      financier          ment       financier         - ment  financier
Pension System $3.0    $0.5                $4.5      $1.2               150%   240%
Reform


Pension System  1.0      1.6                1.2       0.5                 120    31%
Supervision


Financial       3.5      0.2                1.5       0.3                  43  150%
Markets
Development


Project         0.5      0.3                0.6       0.8                 100  266%
Implementation
Unit


Total           8.0      2.6                7.8       2.8                  97  108%




                                               - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/1999                    1    1 TTL
              2/2000                    1    1 TTL

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1999                   1    FMS

 Supervision
              06/2000                   2    1 TTL, 1 FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST
              08/2000                   1    1 FINANCIAL SECTOR                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              09/2000                   2    2 FINANCIAL SECTOR                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              10/2000                   1    1 BANK SUPERVISION                S               S
              2/2001                    1    1 PROCUREMENT                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              3/2001                    2    1 FIN. SEC. SPECIALIST; 1 SR.     S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
              9/2001                    2    1 TTL, 1 FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST
              10/2001                   1    1 FINANCIAL SECTOR                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              11/2001                   1    1 FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST
              3/2002                    2    1 TTL, 1 FINANCIAL SECTOR         S               S
                                             SPECIALIST
              4/2002                    2    1 PROCUREMENT                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST, 1 LANGUAGE
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT
              6/2002                    1    1 TTL
              7/2002                    1    1 BANK SUPERVISION
              10/2002                   7    1 TTL, 2 FINANCIAL SECTOR         S               S
                                             SPECIALIST, 1 FMS, 1
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST,
                                             1 OPERATIONS ANALYST, 1
                                             CONSULTANT - INSURANCE
                                             SECTOR.
              1/2003                    2    1 TTL, 1 PENSION
                                             SPECIALIST
              2/2003                    2    1 PENSION SPECIALIST, 1           U               U
                                             TTL
              7/2003                    1    1 PENSION SPECIALIST
              10/2003                   2    1 FMS, 1                          S               U
                                             CONSULTANT-BANK
                                             SUPERVISION



                                              - 39 -

               3/2004                          2    1 TTL, 1 FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                                    SPECIALIST
               8/2004                          1    1 TTL                                   S            S
               12/2004                                                                      S            S
               3/2005                          1    1 TTL                                   S            S
               8/2005                          1    1 TTL                                   S           U

 ICR
               11/2005                              1 CONSULTANT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       3*                          670.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            25                             82
  Supervision                                  104.4                           326.8
  ICR                                           12.1                             30.9
  Total                                        144.5                         1,110.8
(*) figure does not include consultant staff weeks, however, consultant cost is included in the US$ amount.




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

INSS, Annual Report, 2004.

MHCP, INSS and BCN, Comision Tecnica Interinstitucional, Impacto de Implementacion de
Ley 340, Sistema de Ahorro para Pensiones, September 2004.

OED, Bank Assistance to Pension Reform and the Development of Pension Systems, September
23, 2005.

SBOIF, Annual Reports: 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003.

SBOIF, Informe Del Sistema Financiero Nacional, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004.

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 17496, March 18, 1998.

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 25043-NI, December 18, 2002.

World Bank, Development Credit Agreement: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical
Assistance Project, Credit number 3344-NI, June 14, 2000.

World Bank, Implementation Completion Report: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, Report
No. 24435, June 28, 2002.

World Bank, Memorandum of the President: Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative, Report No. P7614,
January 6, 2004.

World Bank, Nicaragua: Pension Reform Proposal, Report No. 19669-NI, April 3, 2000.

World Bank, Program Document: Poverty Reduction Support Credit, Report No. 27491-NI,
December 16, 2003.

World Bank, Project Appriasal Document: Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical
Assistance Credit, Report No. 19680 NI, April 13, 2000.

World Bank, El Sistema Bancario de Nicaragua,August 2000.




                                            - 43 -

- 44 -

