Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3344-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3344-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
from the Borrower to the Association dated October 29, 1999;
(d)
“INSS” means Instituto Nicaragüense de Seguridad Social, the 
Borrower’s social security institute established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s decree law No. 4-90 published in La Gaceta (as defined below) 
on May 8, 1990 as amended;
(e)
“INSS Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and INSS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the INSS Implementation Agreement;
(f)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(g)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(h)
“Pension Law” means Law No. 340 providing for the new 
pension system referred to in Part A.4 of the Project enacted on March 
15, 2000;
(i)
“Procurement Management Action Plan” means the plan set 
forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Association dated October 
29, 1999;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Superintendency” means Superintendencia de Bancos e 
Instituciones Financieras, the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks and 
Financial Institutions;
(m)
“Superintendency Implementation Agreement” means the 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Superintendency 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Page  3
Superintendency Implementation Agreement; and
(n)
“Technical Secretariat” means the Secretariat within the 
Borrower’s Presidency established by Decree No. 55-98 published in La 
Gaceta on September 4, 1998.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 
2010 and ending November 15, 2039.  Each installment to and including the 
Page  4
installment payable on November 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the Technical 
Secretariat, with the assistance of:
(i)
INSS in respect of Parts A.1 through A.4, A.7 and B.2 
(b) of the Project; and
(ii)
the Superintendency in respect of Part C.2 of the 
Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, economic and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  5
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with INSS (the INSS Implementation Agreement) setting 
forth their respective 
responsibilities in the 
implementation of Parts A.1 through A.4, A.7 and B.2 
(b) of the Project and the role of a steering committee composed by 
the 
Technical Secretary of the Presidency and the 
Executive Director of INSS in 
the overall management of 
the Project; and
(ii)
with the Superintendency (the Superintendency 
Implementation Agreement) 
setting forth their 
responsibilities in the implementation of Part C.2 of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the INSS 
Implementation Agreement and the Superintendency Implementation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the INSS Implementation Agreement or the 
Superintendency Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the 
Project, a unit for the coordination of the Project (the PCU) staffed 
with professionals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association on or about March 31, June 
30, September 30, and December 31, of each year, commencing September 30, 
2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(c)
review with the Association by October 31 each year, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this Section; and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
Page  6
and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  7
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than January 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the 
Page  8
Association, shall have been established by the Borrower as provided in 
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have implemented the Procurement 
Management Action Plan; and
(c)
the INSS Implementation Agreement shall have been executed 
on behalf of the Borrower and INSS.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, 
namely, that the INSS Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and INSS and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and INSS in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 12, 2000 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Page  9
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ulrich Lachler 
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   1,020,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures 
(2)
Consultants’ Services
   3,770,000
100%
(3)
Training
     510,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
     500,000
TOTAL
   5,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means the cost of tuition fees, study 
tours, travel and per-diem of trainers and trainees, training materials, 
rental of facilities and equipment and other costs related to training to 
be carried out under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
Page  10
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR370,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1999; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures for Part C.2 of the Project 
unless the Superintendency Implementation Agreement shall have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Superintendency.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods and consultants’ services under contracts in respect 
of which prior review is not required in accordance with the provisions 
of Parts D.2 of Sections I and II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Page  11
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account; and 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$1,150,000.
Page  12
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
Page  13
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$1,400,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the 
preparation of a more equitable and sustainable system of old-age income 
security for Nicaraguan workers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Pension Reform
1.
(a)
Preparation of a proposal for the reform of the parametric 
requirements of the Borrower’s “Pay-as-you-Go” pension system such as the 
minimum retirement age, contribution rates, vesting period and base 
salary of contributors, as needed to make it sustainable; and
(b)
preparation of the legislative reforms required to implement 
such proposal.
2.
Development and application of a system for recognizing the pension 
rights acquired by workers in the existing “Pay-as-you-Go” pension 
system.
3.
Evaluation and improvement, as needed, of INSS’ information systems 
for the administration of pensions including, inter alia, the collection 
and account management systems, and INSS’ service standards and control 
systems.
4.
(a)
Implementation of a new pension system in which the pension 
benefits would depend upon the contributions made by workers into 
individual savings accounts, and the returns on savings of such accounts 
including, inter alia, a review and assessment of:
(i)
the contribution rates for type of insurance and 
parties to the scheme, 
vesting period, benefits 
and portability regime; and
(ii)
the institutional allocation of responsibilities for 
benefit and account 
management; and
(b)
drafting of:
(i)
regulations to the Pension Law; and
(ii)
the legislation required for the establishment and 
operation of a pension 
fund, including provisions 
on, inter alia, account management, administration 
and investment norms; limitations on and treatment of investments 
abroad; 
portfolio profitability, risk 
classification and valuation standards; 
auditing, disclosure and reporting requirements; procedures for 
Page  14
purchases, 
sales, custody and transfer of 
securities; publicity norms, and accounting 
standards.
5.
(a)
Evaluation of the costs to the Borrower of providing a 
minimum pension guarantee and the financing and administration systems 
required for such pension guarantee;
(b)        drafting of the legislative changes required to 
implement such guarantee; and
(c)
carrying out of a social impact assessment on the pension 
reform referred to in Part A.4 hereof.
6.
Review of the financial implications for the Borrower of the 
conversion from the “Pay-as-you-Go” system referred to in Part A.1 hereof 
to the new pension system referred to in Part A.4 hereof, including:
(a)
a determination of the fiscal costs of the conversion given 
parametric reform, current pension funds and outlays, different methods 
of recognizing acquired rights and a minimum pension guarantee; and
(b)
analysis of financing options, and the macroeconomic and 
distributive impact thereof.
7.
Carrying out of a consultation with relevant stakeholders and an 
information campaign for the general public on the pension reform 
proposals developed under Part A.4 hereof.
Part B:
Pension Supervision
1.
Development of the institutional and regulatory framework for the 
supervision of the Borrower’s pension system, including, inter alia:
(a)
a determination of the objectives, authority and 
organizational structure of a pension superintendency and the 
responsibilities and information feedback mechanisms vis-a-vis other 
regulatory agencies; and
(b)
an assessment of the financing mechanisms available for such 
agency.
 2.
(a)      Development and operation of a system to monitor 
compliance with the Borrower’s pension fund regulations; and 
(b)       development and implementation of a training plan for 
personnel of INSS, the Technical Secretariat and the new regulatory 
agency, if and when established, on the supervisory system referred to in 
Part B.1 hereof.
Part C:
Insurance and Financial Market Development
1.
Identification of new insurance and capital market instruments for 
pension fund investment including, inter alia:
(a)
an assessment of the anticipated size of the market thereof;
(b)
an evaluation of the required changes to the legal framework 
Page  15
for the operation thereof;
(c)
a review of absorption capacity of the domestic market for 
such instruments; and
(d)
an analysis of custody arrangements therefor.
2.
Review of the regulatory framework for the supervision of insurance 
and capital market activities.
3.
(a)
Strengthening of banking and other financial sector 
institutions and the legal framework thereof, including inter alia, 
drafting of secured transactions legislation, including mortgage and 
moveable collateral.
(b)
Drafting of financial regulations according to international 
banking standards and criteria and improvement of norms for bank 
resolution procedures, risk management and internal control system and 
procedures.
(c)
Carrying out examination of banks and strengthening of the 
skills of the staff assigned thereto through on-the-job training.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and 
(b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I, and Section 
III.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  16
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in 
accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use 
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract for goods procured pursuant to Part B.1 
hereof; and
(ii)
the first two contracts procured pursuant to Part C.1 
hereof, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured 
pursuant to Part C.2 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower 
shall provide to the 
Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower 
shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
Page  17
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for consulting firms, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Advisory services to assist in the implementation of Part B.1 of 
the Project and estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the 
aggregate $3,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
Page  18
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants: (i)  estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or more; and (ii) for assignments of a critical nature as determined by 
the Association, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for consultants services 
irrespective of amount, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bidders shall not be required to register as a condition for 
bidding.
2.
The submission of a single bid shall not be a sufficient reason to 
cancel the bidding process.
3.
The content of the bids and the evaluation report thereof shall 
remain confidential with respect to those not involved in the evaluation 
process until the award of the bid is made.
