Page  1
June 5, 1998
Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Re:
Japanese Grant for Pension System and Financial Sector
Reform Program 
Grant Number TF025322
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding seven hundred and fifty thousand United States dollars (US$750,000) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of Nicaragua (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this 
Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By_________________________
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:
___________________
Name:
Esteban Duque Estrada
Page  2
Title:
Minister of Finance
Date:
June 16, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Recipient’s pension system and 
financial sector reform program.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Design of an institutional development plan for the overall reform of the pension system 
including the redesign of inspection systems and the improvement of information systems and human 
resources capacity at the Social Security Institute (INSS), the Superintendency of Banks and other 
selected entities of the Recipient.
(b)
Carrying out of diagnostic studies to determine the actuarial and financial situation of 
INSS, and of its pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system (first pillar), and define alternatives for the improvement 
of pension management and efficiency, the reduction of overall costs and the increase of the social 
security system’s coverage.
(c )
Feasibility studies for the establishment of a mandatory, fully-funded, defined pension 
contributions pillar (second pillar), and a voluntary contribution pillar (third pillar), including the 
drafting of the required legal and regulatory framework and an action plan for establishing the regulatory 
and supervisory entity.
(d)
Carrying out of complementary financial sector studies for:
(i)
tax treatment of financial institutions and instruments; 
(ii)
auditing and accounting standards, reporting requirements and disclosure rules 
for private and publicly traded companies and financial intermediaries; and
(iii)
action plans for the development of financial markets (securities, banking and 
insurance); the improvement of public debt management and, clearing, 
settlement and custody systems; and the strengthening of the supervision 
capacity.
(e)
Carrying of seminars and workshops for dissemination and discussion of pension reform 
experiences, with the participation of international experts involved in regulation, supervision and 
implementation of pension and financial sector reforms.
(f)
Carrying of study tours to other countries in the region that have reformed their pension 
systems, such as Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, El Salvador and Colombia.
(g)
Carrying out of workshops and a public information campaign to encourage public 
awareness an consensus building for the reformed pension system.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, goods, training and study tours required 
for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
Page  3
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
INNS will assist IDA in the acquisition of the goods, and the implementation of the training and 
study tours to be carried out, and select the participants and sites thereof.  It is expected that the 
Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999.  After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the 
remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Republic of Nicaragua on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals 
or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Republic of Nicaragua, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
