       MEMORANDUMAND RECOMMENDATIONOF THEPRESIDENT
                                          OF THE
                INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                          TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS
       FOR NICARAGUA-PENSION AND FINANCIALMARKET REFORM
        ON A PROPOSEDAMENDMENT TO THE CREDITAGREEMENT

                        TECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                  (CREDITNO. 3344-NI)


1.      I submit for your approval a proposed Amendment to the Nicaragua Pension and
Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance Credit Agreement (Credit 3344-NI). The
Government of Nicaragua has requested this Amendment be made to reflect significant
factors that affected the course of project implementation and will have an impact on the
overall project outcome. These factors include (i) a substantial level of systemic
instability, culminating in the generalized banking crisis in late 2000; (ii) a change of
administration in Nicaragua in January 2002, bringing about a restructuring and related
personnel changes at the project's counterpart agency; and (iii) higher actual costs for
selected activities versus the original budget, with specific project activities under the
first two components being much more costly than anticipated. For these reasons, the
Government of Nicaragua has requested the Credit Agreement be amended in order to
bring the development objectives more in line with the current realities of the project, and
extend the project closing date to December 31,2004.

2.      Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed modifications of the
Agreement covering Credit 3344-NI comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Amendment in
accordance with the terms set out in paragraphs 10to 14.

                                                              James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                      President


                                                              by Shengman Zhang

Attachment
December 12,2003




                   Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                   Country Director:      Jane Armitage
                   Sector Director:       Danny Leipziger
                   Task Manager:          Modibo K. Camara


   Nicaragua Pension and Financial Market Reform TechnicalAssistanceProject
                -
                                      (Credit3344-NI)

                      Proposed Amendment to the CreditAgreement


 1.     This proposal seeks the Executive Directors' approval to amend the Credit
Agreement for the Nicaragua Pension and Financial Market Reform Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 3344-NI). The Government of Nicaragua has requested this Amendment
be made to reflect significant factors that affected the course of project implementation
and will have an impact on the overall project outcome.

2.      First, it appeared during the implementation process that the Nicaraguan financial
system was weaker than expected and displayed a substantial level of systemic
instability. This instability culminated in the occurrence of a generalized banking crisis in
late 2000, which in turn led to a stronger allocation of project funds to improve bank
supervision than initially expected. As a result, existing plans to create new financial
market instruments and related regulatory adjustments to support the pension reform
were postponed and failed to be implemented. Second, the implementation progress also
showed that political risks too were insufficiently taken into account in the definition of
the expected project outcomes, especially in light of the relatively short implementation
period (3.5 years). The change of administration in Nicaragua in January 2002 brought
about a restructuring and related personnel changes at the counterpart agency, the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, which in turn resulted in a slowdown of project
implementation. Similarly, the then Superintendent of Pensions left his office following a
corruption scandal, and a replacement could not be appointed until May 2003. This too
resulted in a substantial delay in project implementation. Third, specific project activities
under the first two components turned out to be much more costly than anticipated. This
was especially the case for the public information campaign to win support for the
proposed pension reform. As a result, the balance of resources currently available is
insufficient to fund a number of activities still pending completion according to the
Credit Agreement.

3.      Yet, the recent depreciation of the US$ compared to the SDR has enabled the
project to realize unexpected windfall gains, thereby increasing the remaining project
funds to US$675,000.This amount may still be insufficient to initiate new activities, but
it would be appropriate to expand the scope of ongoing subcomponents and enhance the
final outcome. It is therefore necessary to amend the Credit Agreement to increase the
focus of the project components on what can realistically be achieved with the remaining
funding, and extend the Credit closing until December 31,2004, in order to provide
reasonable time for their completion. At the same time, it will also be necessary to
eliminate other activities for which there is neither sufficient time nor funding remaining.
Such an amendment would bring the development objectives more in line with the
current realities of the country. It would also facilitate a better assessment of the
achievements made so far under the project. The extension of the closing date would also

                                              - 2 -


benefit the largest ongoing project activity, which consists in setting-up the IT-
 infrastructure to support the new system and whose implementation suffered a delay of
 about 5 months due to the factors mentioned above. The proposed amendment has been
 discussed with and accepted by the Government, subject to IDA approval.


                                 PART I: BACKGROUND

4.       The Credit was approved by the Association's Board of Executive Directors on
May 11,2000 and became effective on October 25, 2000. The closing date is February
 28, 2004. The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the preparation of a
more equitable and sustainable system of old-age income security for Nicaraguan
workers. The objective was to be attained through the design and implementation of: i)
parametric changes to the pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension system; ii) a mandatory funded
defined contribution pension system of privately managed individual pension accounts;
iii) a financing plan for the recognition of acquired rights under the PAYG; and iv) a
small, targeted public pension guarantee for lifetime poor contributors. In addition, the
project was to develop the institutional capacity to effectively regulate and supervise the
new system; carry out a public information campaign; develop insurance and capital
market instruments; and strengthen financial market institutions and rules for private
sector provision of pension products.

5.       Component I: Pension System Reform. Project implementation under this
component achieved a key milestone with the elaboration and passage of the new pension
system law (Law 340) and thereby the inception of the institutional framework for the
implementation of the proposed new pension system. An actuarial model was availed to
the Instituto Nicaragiiense de Seguridad Social (INSS) and training provided to INSS in
the use of this model. Now INSS can estimate on its own the fiscal impact of the pension
reform and conduct various scenario analyses to support decision making. Substantial
progress has also been made on the determination of individual work histories for the
accounts to be transferred to new private providers of pension services. However, critical
elements of the reform remain pending mostly due to the current difficult political
environment in Nicaragua. In particular, a new social security law has to be elaborated
including a definition of the key parameters of the new pension system (i.e. the
adjustments to pension eligibility requirements like increasing age and number of years
of contributions). Given the need for intense political negotiations, the passage of this law
will not be possible before the project's current closing date of February 28, 2004.
Compromises will almost certainly have to be made between the Government and other
stakeholders of the reform, and this could in turn have an impact on the business model
for future private pension fund managers. Therefore, it makes sense for the Government
to delay the licensing of these private pension managers until there is more clarity as to
how the final compromise may look like, which means that the new system will not be
fully implemented before the project closing date, in contrast to the goal set in the Credit
Agreement. This is one of the main reasons for requesting this amendment.

                                              - 3 -



 6.      Component ZZ: Pension System Supervision. The new superintendency for pension
fund managers has been created with adequate staffing for its immediate needs, and the
required procedures for the accreditation and establishment of private pension fund
 administrators (AFP) are also in place. A large consultancy has been contracted to design
the IT-infrastructureto support the new pension system. The new superintendency still
needs to strengthen its analytical and supervision capacity, develop an appropriate set of
prudential norms, and elaborate effective institutional arrangements for collaboration
with the Superintendency of Banks, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions in the area
of supervision. Some technical assistance is being provided in this respect, but it is
restricted by the limited funds still available under the project. However, this component
will not be affected by the amendment.

7.       ComponentZZZ: Znsurance & Financial Market Development. The main activity
under this component has been the carrying out of assisted inspections of all the banking
entities in the financial system. This support has proven itself to be critical, especially in
the wake of the 2000-2001 banlng crisis. Local inspectors, assisted by international bank
inspectors, carried out the inspections that led to the intervention and closure of 5
problem banks, one of which was merged with a sound institution, and subsequently
restored stability in the banking system. In addition, this component has also led to
important changes in the prudential regulation of banks and the initiation of a deposit
insurance scheme. However, the external shock resulting from the crisis has also resulted
in the exclusive use of the credit proceeds under this component for the strengthening of
the on-site supervision of the banking sector. The implementation of other activities was
understandably delayed, and given the current amount of funds remaining, it will not be
possible to implement them under this project. This is the other main rationale for
requesting this amendment.

8.      Project Administration. Financial management and procurement were both found
to be satisfactory at the mid-tern review of project implementation. With regard to
project management, a duplication of positions was corrected. A new unified project
manager position was introduced and a new person was appointed to the position. This
decision has had a very positive impact on project administration. A problem remains
however that the official project counterpart, the Secretaria TCcnica de la Presidencia
(SETEC -now renamed Secretaria de Coordinacih y Estrategia de la Presidencia), is
only marginally involved in project implementation since it underwent a major
reorganization together with changes in key staff in early 2002. Since then, the project
has been managed primarily by INSS and the Superintendency of Banks, with the
Superintendencyof Pensions playing an increasingly important role. The coordination
role initially played by the SETEC has now been virtually taken over by the Ministry of
Finance. The amendment would make sure that this new reality is reflected in the Credit
Agreement. Audited financial statements and project audits have been received, and the
Borrower is in compliance with the credit covenants regarding audits.

                                              - 4 -


                          PART 11: PROPOSEDAMENDMENT

9.      The proposed modifications to the objectives and scope of the Project are
intended to reflect what is attainable given the current financial sector reality and the
remaining funds.

 10.    This proposed Amendment seeks to concentrate on the original project objectives
and the activities under "Part A: Pension Reform" and "Part C: Insurance and Financial
Market Development" under the Description of the Project in the Development Credit
Agreement (the DCA).

 11.    Project activities described in Schedule 2 of the DCA would be modified as
follows: Under Part A: Pension Reform, activity number 4 "Implementation of a new
pension system in which the pension benefits would depend upon contributions made by
workers into individual savings account ..." would be revised to start as "Initiation of the
implementation of a new pension system in which.. ,", Activity 5(c) would be removed.

 12.    Under Part C: Insurance and Financial Market Development, activity number 1
"Identification of new insurance and capital market instruments for pension fund
investment including, interalia: (a) an assessment of the anticipated size of the market
thereof; (b) an evaluation of the required changes to the legal framework for the operation
thereof; (c) a review of absorption capacity of the domestic market for such instruments;
and (d) an analysis of custody arrangements therefor"; and activity number 2 "Review of
the regulatory framework for the supervision of insurance and capital market activities"
would be removed. Activity 3(a) would be revised to remove the portion on "drafting of
secured transactions legislation, including mortgage and moveable collateral." The new
Component would then be comprised of "Strengthening of banlung and other financial
sector institutions and the legal framework thereof ',along with the remaining activities.

13.     The Project's Implementing Agencies would also be amended to keep only the
Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of Instituto Nicaragiiense de Seguridad Social
(INSS), and Superintendency of Banks and Insurance. The Secretaria TCcnica de la
Presidencia will be dropped as implementing agency, and the project will be under the
direct responsibility of the Borrower (i.e. the Ministry of Finance). The DCA would be
amended accordingly.

14.     Finally, the closing date would be extended to December 31,2004. The extension
would allow for (i) the use of the remaining project funds according to the plans
discussed with the Bank, and (ii) the completion of the software needed to collect the
pension contributions under the new system.

15.     A copy of the draft Letter of Amendment to the Borrower is available upon
request.

