Document of
The World Bank
Repor' No. T-6716-EC
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH 4, 1996
Environmental and Urban Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre
US$1.00 = 2920 Sucres
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME                   Association of Municipalities
CAAM                  Environmental Advisory Commission
CAVIP                 Program for Improving Poor Neighborhoods and Low
Income Housing
CEDEGE                Guayas Basin Development Commission
CEDENMA               National Council of Environmental NGOsc
CONADE                National Planning Department
CONAGA                National Environmental Management Coulncil
DINAMA                National Environment Directorate
ECORAE                Amazon Region Development Agency
EEC                   European Economic Community
EU                    European Union
GEF                   Global Environment Facility
GoE                   Government of Ecuador
GMU                   Guayaquil Management Unit
INEFANl National Forestry and Wildlife Institute
INP                   National Fisheries Institute
IDB                   InterAmerican Development Bank
INOCAR                National Oceanographic Institute
MAG                   Ministry of Agriculture
MEM                   Ministry of Energy and Mines
MIDUV'I               Ministry of Urban Development
MICIP                 Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration and Fish½i:?:
NEAP                  National Environmental Action Plan
NGO'S                 Non Governmental Organizations
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PHRD                  Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (Japan)
PPU                   Project Preparation Unit
SCL                   Single Currency Loan
SSA                   Sub Secretariat of Environmental Sanitation



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                                                            iii
Section A
BACKGROUND .........................................................1
Environmental Problems and Management Issues .1
Legal and Institutional Framework for Environmental Management                                                    .          3
Section B
THE  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   ....................                                        .....................................4
Project Objectives .........4..........................................4
Project Description ....................................................4
Policy Formulation  and  Institutional Strengthening . ......................................... 5
Environmental Planning and Management in the Ecuadorian Amazon . ............. 7
Municipal Environmental Management ....................................................                                   8
Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf of Guayaquil ........... 10
Section C
PROJECT  COSTS  AND   FINANCING  ........................................................                                           11
Section D
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ............ ............... 12
A rrangem      ents                                                 ...................................................  12
Project Management ...................................................                                                   13
Bank  Supervision  ...................................................  13
Bank Project Review  ...................................................  13
Procurement ...................................................                                                          15
Disbursement ...................................................                                                         18
Auditing ...................................................                                                             18
Monitoring  and  Evaluation ...................................................                                          18



Section E
BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................                                                             18
Section F
AGREEMENTS .................................................                                                                     19
Conditions for Effectiveness .............................................                                             19
Conditions for Disbursement .............................................                                              19
Assurances ............................................                                                                19
ANNEXES
Annex  1-Bank Lessons Learned ............................................. 20
Annex  2-Participating  Institutions ............................................. 21
Annex  3-Summary  Cost Table and  Implementation  Schedule  .......................... 22
Annex  4-Detailed  Cost Table and Implementation  Schedule .............................                               23
Annex  5-Cost Table for Year One Program  .............................................                                 27
Annex  6- Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impact(Year 1) ......................... 28
Annex  7- Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts(Yr 1-4) ........................ 32
Annex  8- Terms of Reference for PIU .............................................                                     33
Annex  9- Consultative Process with NGO's                                  ............................................ 38
Annex  10-Documents on Project File                                        ............................................ 40



-iii-
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Ecuador.
Implementing
Agency:         The Presidency/ The Environmental Advisory
Commission(CAAM)
Beneficiaries:    This project will provide mainly indirect environmental benefits to
populations living in Ecuador's urban areas, to communities surrounding
the Gulf of Guayaquil, and to poor communities in the Shushufindi region
of the Amazon.
Poverty Category: Not applicable.
Amount:         US$ 15.0 million
Terms:          Standard amortization, grace period, and interest rate for fixed-rate US $
single currency loan with an expected disbursement period of 3 to 6
years.
Interest Payment
Date and Rate
Fixing Date:    March 15 and September 15
Commitment
Fcc:            0.75% on1 undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:   See Annex 3
Rate of Return:  Not applicable.
Project
Identification
Number:         EC-PA- 7128
Map:            IBRD 27718






ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Section A.      Background
1     Environmental Problems and Management Issues. The National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) which was prepared in 1994 identified Ecuador's major
environmental problems and the priority geographic areas for environmental investment .
A comprehensive list of these areas is contained in Box 1.
BOX 1. Ecuador's Environmental Problems and Priority Geographic Areas
Major Environmental Problems
-- soil erosion, loss of biodiversity and genetic resources, deforestation, water and air
pollution, environment related health hazards, desertification, watershed destruction and
floods and other natural disasters--
Priority Geographic Areas
-- the coastal forests of the Northwest, coastal mangroves, the Amazon forests, the
Galapagos, the Gulf of Guayaquil, large and medium sized cities, and major agricultural
production zones--
The NEAP also identifies the most important production activities which have a major
impact on the environment. These include: (i) hydrocarbon exploration, production,
transport and refining; (ii) minerals production ; (iii) fishing and aquaculture; (iv) intensive
agriculture and agroindustry; (v) industry (both large scale and cottage); and (vi)
transport and urbanization. The impact of these activities are for the most part
concentrated in priority geographic areas such as the Amazon and the coastal zone area of
the Gulf of Guayaquil and in areas with growing population and industrial development
such as the major urban centers of Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca.
2.    In addition to identifying major environmental problems and priority geographic
areas the NEAP also proposes a process and a strategy for improved and more effective
environmental management. A key element in the process and a central component of the
strategy is the approval of the new Environmental Law and the establishment of the
National Environmental Management Council (CONAGA). While the successful passage
of the law by the Ecuadorian Congress is an indispensable element for establishing the
groundwork for environmental management, the corresponding programmatic actions
which make up the strategy will ultimately determine the course for effective
environmental management. The NEAP identifies a number of programmatic actions
including :the harmonization of existing laws and decrees which impact the environment,



- 2 -
the definition and implementation of an agile institutional framework, the strengthening of
key institutions charged with the responsibility for environmental management, and the
provision of resources and the delegation of appropriate responsibilities to municipal and
local governments, community organizations and NGOs.
3.    Currently, the Environmental Advisory Commission (CAAM) which was
established in 1993 by Presidential decree and reports directly to the President is charged
with carrying forward this process and to ultimately recommending a suitable and
appropriate institutional framework for environmental management. An important element
of their work is promoting the new environmental law (see Para. 7). The CAAM is
composed of representatives of government ministries or agencies whose policies and
programs directly impact the use of natural resources or have under the current legal
framework responsibility for water and air quality, the private sector (chambers of
commerce and industry) and environmental nongovernmantal organizations. The
Secretary of CAAM is also the Director of the Environment Office of the National
Planning Department (CONADE). A number of ministries and agencies which are
members of CAAM's Executive Board including CONADE, the National Forestry and
Wildlife Institute (INEFAN) and the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) are
implementing environmental projects with support from the InterAmerican Development
Bank and the Global Environment Facility (GEF). CAAM is currently receiving support
from the European Community, UNDP, USAID and the Government of Switzerland.
4.    Over the last few years numerous multilateral, bilateral agencies and international
nongovernmental organizations have been providing support to Ecuador's environment
sector. In 1994, the IDB began to provide support to CONADE for the design and
implementation of a system of environmental assessment. More recently, IDB approved
three important environmental initiatives: (i) Environmental Planning in the Galapagos, (ii)
Coastal Resources Management, and (iii) Environmental Improvement in Quito. The EEC
recently approved a project to provide support through CAAM to undertake
environmental remediation in the Amazon region. In 1994, the Government of Switzerland
and the Government of Ecuador (GoE) agreed to undertake a sustainable natural
resources management project. The Bank has been providing limited support to the
environment sector through the Mining Sector TA, the GEF Biodiversity Protection
Project, the Ozone Protection Project and the Lower Guayas Watershed Project.
5.    Given the level of donor activity in the environment sector, the Bank and the GoE
during the identification and preparation stages of the project identified important gaps in
environmental technical assistance. The design of the project and the selection of project
components is consistent with these findings and with the NEAP and will address some of
the most pressing environmental problems affecting both the health of the population and
sectors whose economy depends on a non-polluted ecosystem.
6.    During project preparation, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) were given
the opportunity to provide input into the overall design of the project, primarily through
the National Council of Environmental NGOs (CEDENMA). CEDENMA is an umbrella



- 3 -
environmental NGO representing over 30 national and provincial environmental NGOs
and as a member of CAAM provides the mechanism for NGO input into CAAM'S work
program. In addition, a social scientist participated in the project preparation, which
included a visit to selected communities in the Amazon Region. His recommendations
have been fully incorporated into the project design. During the appraisal mission, the
Bank team met with the senior management of CEDENMA and environmental NGOs
based in the Amazon region including the Frente de Defensa de la Amazonia and Accion
Ecologica. Together, these efforts provided NGOs with an opportunity to provide
comments on the proposed project as well as suggestions on how to improve and expand
the consultative process. During project implementation, institutional mechanisms will be
established to enhance the opportunity for NGO and local community participation. A
selected number of environmental NGOs and community organizations will also
participate in the design and implementation of specific subprojects.
7.    Legal and Inslitutional Frameworkfor Environmental Management. Addressing
the country's serious environmental problems is hindered by the lack of a well defined
legal and institutional framework for environmental management. However, recent
actions taken by the GoE have demonstrated a willingness to address the problems
associated with such framework. Most significant is the passage of an amendment to the
constitution strengthening the environmental provisions and the submission to the
Congress of a new Environmental Law. With support from the PPF and the PHRD,
CAAM has undertaken policy studies and organizational design related to the new
environmental law, the design of the new National Environmental Management Council
(CONAGA), and the design of a national campaign to mobilize public support and
participation for the new legal and institutional framework which will be implemented
and financed by the proposed project. This draft law is currently being reviewed and
revised by Congress and is expected to be enacted in 1996. The key principles of the new
law are described in Box 2. The current framework for environmental management are
guided by laws which are sufficient for the implementation of the technical assistance to be
provided under the loan. These laws include: the Prevention and Control of
Environmental Contamination Law (1976), the Program for Improving Poor
Neighborhoods and Low Income Housing, (CAVIP 1976), the Mining Law (1991), the
Hydrocarbon Law (1992), the Agricultural Development Law (1994), and laws which
established the Sub Secretary of Environmental Sanitation (SSA) within the Ministry of
Housing (MIDUVI), the Institute of Forestry, Natural Areas and Wildlife (INEFAN), and
the Institute for the Ecodevelopment of the Amazon (ECORAE), and the Health and
Water Codes.



-4 -
BOX 2. The New Draft Environmental Law-Key Principles
(I) Promote community participation in environmental protection and resource
management.
(II) Strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies to develop and implement policies,
including the establishment of CONAGA as the key agency for environmental policy
development and implementation.
(III) Establish economic incentives to promote sound resource management.
(IV) Guarantee access to information on the government's environmental decision making
(V) Revise and update laws and develop and enforce standards to meet the provisions of
international agreements ratified by the Government.
8.    While the Bank views the enactment of the new law as an important step in
improving the overall framework for environmental management, the proposed technical
assistance project has been designed in a way to permit both national and local level
institutions with environmental responsibilities under the current legal framework the
opportunity to build institutional capacity and participatory processes. The results of the
activities supported under this loan will take on added importance when the new law is
approved.
Section B.     Project Description
9.    Project Objectives. The overall objective of the project is twofold: (i) to provide
support for the ongoing process of implementing a national environmental strategy; and,
(ii) to assist the GoE in building up an environmental management capacity in three
priority geographic areas identified in the NEAP: urban areas, the Gulf of Guayaquil, and
the Amazon.
10.   The specific objectives of the project are to: (i) strengthen the capacity of CAAM
to undertake environmental policy analysis and environmental program design and
management; (ii) strengthen the environmental management capability of three key
ministries; (iii) establish and strengthen urban environmental management capability in
selected urban areas; (iv) build institutional capacity and carry out the participatory
processes and technical analysis required to resolve two of Ecuador's most serious
environmental problems, particularly those related to pollution of the Gulf of Guayaquil
and the area in the Amazon most affected by oil exploration and production. These
objectives will be achieved through the implementation of studies, workshops, public
relations campaigns, demonstration sub-projects, and data base development.



-5-
11.   The expected results of this project are the preparation of a well defined legal and
institutional framework for environmental planning and management; improved
environmental planning, policy making and management at the national and municipal
levels; and, the design of both technical solutions and participatory processes for
improving the environmental quality of the Gulf of Guayaquil and areas in the Amazon
affected by petroleum activities. Progress in achieving these results will be monitored
based on quantitative and qualitative indicators of project outcomes and impacts.
12.   Project Description. The proposed Environmental Management Project would
consist of four components:
(a)   Component 1: Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening (Total
cost: US$6.5 million);
(b)   Component 2: Environmental Planning and Management in the
Ecuadorian Amazon (Total cost: US$3.1 million);
(c)   Component 3: Municipal Environmental Management (Total cost:
US$3.9 million); and
(d)   Component 4:' Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf of
Guayaquil (Total cost: US$6.5 million);
13.   The subcomponents to be undertaken under each component and their rationale
are described below.
Component 1: Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
14.   This component will consist of four subcomponents corresponding to the four
agencies which will carry out project activities: (i) CAAM, (ii) MIDUVI, (iii) MICIP and
(iv) MEM. Details on the specific subcomponents are presented below. The total
component cost is $ 6.5 million.
The CAAM Subcomponent (US$2, 800,000).
15.   The CAAM subcomponent will support: (i) strengthen the capacity of CAAM to
undertake environmental policy analysis, environmental program design and management,
and undertake a promotional campaign to mobilize public support for, and participation in,
those activities; (ii) the review and updating of the pollution control legislation and the
establishment of appropriate guidelines and standards, including the development of a
national system of environmental impact assessment; (iii) the design and implementation of
a national environmental information system; and (iv) the establishment and support of the
project implementation unit (PIU) in CAAM.
The MIDUVI Subcomponent (US$1,420, 000)
16.   After a recent ministry reorganization, the responsibilities for water and solid
waste policy were vested in the Subsecretary of Environmental Sanitation (SSA) within
the MIDUVI. While the management and operations of most water and solid waste



- 6 -
systems are being turned over to the municipalities, the SSA will handle policy
development and monitoring. The MIDUVI subcomponent will support: (i) the design of
water quality policies and an improvement of the current system for water quality
monitoring; (ii) the design of a national solid waste management policy; and (iii) the
training of staff in the environmental unit.
The MICIP Subcomponent (US$1,500,000)
17.   The MICIP has responsibilities for the design of trade and industrial policies and
fisheries. Currently, the MICIP has a small environmental unit which was set up to
implement activities under the Montreal Protocol. MICIP would like to upgrade and
improve its capacity to develop and implement industrial pollution control policies and
fisheries management and monitoring. The MICIP subcomponent will support: (i) the
incorporation of environmental assessment and environmental policy development
capabilities into the ministry's operations; (ii) the design of industrial pollution prevention
and control policies; and (iii) the review of existing fisheries policies and the preparation of
revised regulations including the upgrading of the fisheries resource monitoring systems;
and (iv) the training of staff from the environmental unit.
The MEM Subcomponent (US$780, 000)
18.   Over the last five years and with limited resources, the Subsecretary of
Environment has been working to develop a set of sectoral environmental policies. With
support from a Bank Technical Assistance Loan (EC-PA-7123), the Division of
Environment (DINAMA) is developing environmental guidelines and procedures for the
mining sector. The Subsecretary is now requesting Bank support for technical assistance
for the development of environmental procedures and guidelines for the petroleum sector,
strengthening of environmental analysis capability within the ministry and other energy
related agencies. Activities to be undertaken in this component will complement the
activities supported under the Amazon Management Component. The MEM
subcomponent will support: (i) environmental assessment and environmental policy
formulation capabilities into the ministry's operations; (ii) review of environmental impact
studies and the development of environmental monitoring procedures, environmental
training for capacity building of environmental units within the Ministry and
PetroEcuador; and, (iii) dissemination of guidelines and regulations for the petroleum
sector.
19.   Under the Institutional Strengthening Component support will be provided for the
acquisition of office and computer equipment, consultant services, training for CAAM
and the three ministries and PetroEcuador. The total component cost is (US$6.5 million).



- 7 -
Component 2: Environmental Planning and Management in the Ecuadorian
Amazon
20.   This component addresses the most important environmental problems facing the
Ecuadorian Amazon: unsustainable renewable resource use, the environmental impact of
petroleum exploration and production, the lack of ecologically and culturally sensitive
regional development planning, and the need for improved community level organization.
In addition to the specific sub-components and activities which will be implemented, this
component will attempt to solidify existing institutional mechanisms for consultation
between the participating agencies and community organizations and NGOs, and through
the project, establish new institutional arrangements for broadening the consultative
process. These mechanisms and arrangements include: existing avenues for consultation
and input through the Institute for the Development of the Amazon Region (ECORAE),
and CEDENMA and the establishment of the Comite de Proyeclos Ambientales en la
Regi6n Amaz6nica (CPA), a grants/subprojects review committee (see para 48). The key
institutions which will implement the project's subcomponents include:Municipal
Government of Shushufindi, CAAM, PetroEcuador, and selected NGO's and community
organizations. Annex 9 describes the consultative process during preparation and the
process for information exchange and consultation which will occur during project
implementation.
21.   This component will comprise of three distinct but related subcomponents: (i) a
Pilot Plan for Environmentally Sustainable Development of the Shushufindi Area; (ii)
Support (small grants) to Local Organizations; and (iii) the Sustainable Development
Program. The total component cost is US$3. Imillion.
The Shushufindi Subcomponent (US$1,700,000)
22.   The Shushufindi area has been the site of intensive petroleum production for more
that 20 years. While the economy of the area has grown, the patterns of development are
characteristic of frontier settlements. Land use and infrastructure planning have not kept
pace with population growth or the changing economic base. At the same time the
indigenous population has reaped very limited economic and social benefits from the oil
economy. The Shushufindi subcomponent will support: (i) urban and regional land use
planning, including the implementation of the proposed small scale water supply and
sewage infrastructure subprojects; (ii) studies on sustainable land use legislation and
policy; and (iii) support for environmental impact monitoring with local NGOs. The Bank
will finance goods and other costs (excluding works). Eligibility and selection of
subprojects will conform to procedures to be described in the project Operating Manual.
The total component costs are US$3.1 I million.
Support to Local Organizations Subcomponent (US$400, 000)
23.   Increasingly, local community based organizations and NGOs are seen as the best
vehicles to achieving sustainable development. In the Ecuadorian Amazon, these groups



-8 -
have become more active and vocal in attempting to gain greater public participation in
the design and implementation of development programs. Towards this end, the
Government in 1993 created ECORAE. ECORAE is charged with the task of assisting
local organizations in meeting their development goals through the provision of technical
assistance. In the context of implementation of this component, local NGOs will not only
have an opportunity to implement subprojects, but will be fully involved as stakeholders in
the consultative process through their representation on the CPA.
24.   The Support to Local Organizations subcomponent will include: (i) evaluations of
the environmental problems and the socio-economic and management requirements of
selected communities in the Ecuadorian Amazon; and (ii) a small grants program for
community organizations and NGOs (maximum grant amount not to exceed US$15,000).
Eligibility and selection of subprojects will conform to procedures to be described in the
project Operating Manual.
Sustainable Development Program Subcomponent (US$1,000,000)
25.   Despite the growth of the petroleum economy, most communities in the
Shushufindi area still rely on natural resources for their livelihood. Many of these
communities have experienced extensive deforestation related to petroleum production
activities and population growth from colonization. Reforestation and improved
management of existing native forests is a high priority. The river systems in the area also
appear, from preliminary studies, to have potential for aquaculture development. In some
areas coffee production has become an important cash crop, but significant improvements
in the farmning system could be achieved with improved technology. The Sustainable
Development subcomponent will support through sub-projects and related studies: (i)
community participation in reforestation and other community based environmental
improvement activities; (ii) pilot projects in fish farming; and (iii) analysis of technology
options for coffee production. Eligibility and selection of subprojects will conform to
procedures to be described in the project Operating Manual.
26.   Under the Environmental Management of the Amazon Component support will be
provided for the acquisition of office and computer equipment, consultant services, seed
stock for reforestation and fish farming, materials for small scale infrastructure
development, and training for all participating institutions.
Component 3: Municipal/Provincial Environmental Management
27.   This component will address priority areas for environmental management by
focusing activities at three levels: (i) large urban centers; (ii) small and medium size cities
and the province of Manabi; and (iii) low income neighborhoods of 8 cities. Program
approaches for improving environmental management in each of these areas have been
tailored to meet the most pressing environmental problems and the most suitable
institutional framework for implementation. The key institutions which will implement this
component include: MIDUVI, the Association of Municipalities (AME), the Provincial
Council of Manabi, and the Municipal Governments of Quito, Guayaquil, and Cuenca.



- 9 -
28.   This component will be comprised of five distinct subcomponents: (i)
Environmental Management for Low Income Neighborhoods; (ii) Small and Medium
Sized Cities Environmental Management;(iii) Environmental Management (Quito); (iv)
Environmental Management (Guayaquil); (v) Environmental Management (Cuenca). The
total component costs is US$3.9 million.
The Environmental Management in Low Income Neighborhoods Subcomponent
(US$455,000)
29.   Marginal urban areas experience some of the most serious environmental problems
due to inadequate and inefficient water management, inadequate and often over taxed
sewage systems, and insufficient solid waste management. Additionally, many of these
neighborhoods are located in close proximity to household and industrial waste sites. The
Environmental Management in Low Income Neighborhoods Subcomponent will support:
training in community environmental management.
The Small and Medium Sized Cities Environmental Management Subcomponent
(US$1,635,000)
30.   The Small and Medium Sized Cities Environmental Management subcomponent
will support: (i) the establishment of 4 pilot resource centers, including one in the Province of
Manabi, under the overall guidance of the Ecuadorian Association of Municipalities (AME) to
provide technical assistance in the areas of solid waste management, urban planning, land use,
and environmental risks; (ii) preparation of guidelines and manuals on sanitary landfills; (iii)
development of base line environmental data; (iv) environmental training; (v) preparation
of guidelines on urban land use planning; and (vi) training in land use management in areas
subject to natural disasters.
The Environmental Management (Quito) Subcomponent (US$766,000)
31.   The Environmental Management (Quito) subcomponent will support: (i) the
design of Quito's new sanitary landfill to include an environmental and social assessment
in conformity with Bank guidelines; (ii) the establishment of an environmental hazards unit
within the municipality of Quito's existing Environment Department; (iii) the design of a
hazardous waste management plan; (iv) laboratory equipment for the Environmental
Department of the Municipality; (v) policy formulation and training in urban
environmental management; and (vi) the development of a water quality monitoring
program.
The Environmental Management (Guayaquil) Subcomponent (US$675,000)
32.   The Environmental Management (Guayaquil) subcomponent will support: (i)
preparation of an urban environmental action plan for Guayaquil; (ii) design and
coordination of environmental policies among municipalities sharing the Guayas
watershed; (iii) city-wide dissemination and environmental education; (iv) training for



- 10-
municipal staff from the environmental unit; and, (v) identification of environmental
investment projects in the parishes of Guayaquil.
The Environmental Management (Cuenca) subcomponent (US$369, 000)
33.   The Environmental Management (Cuenca) subcomponent will support: (i) creation
of an environmental unit in the municipal government of Cuenca; (ii) preparation of a local
environmental action and management plan; (iii) training for staff from the new
environmental unit; (iv) a study of the financial requirements for the protection of the
Cuenca river banks; and, (v) preparation of a feasibility study for the recycling of waste
oils.
34.   Under the Municipal Environmental Component support will be provided for the
acquisition of office and computer equipment, consultant services, and training as detailed
for all participating institutions.
Component 4: Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf of
Guayaquil
35.   The component addresses the most important environmental problems and
environmental management challenges facing the Gulf of Guayaquil: fisheries, shrimp
aquaculture and coastal resources management, watershed management; water pollution,
water quality and water resources management, inadequate and incomplete scientific
information, inadequate enforcement of environmental policies, and the lack of
interinstitutional coordination and management among national level government agencies,
municipalities and the most important industries whose productive activities impact the
environmental quality of the Gulf The key institutions which will implement the
subcomonents include: The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG), the National Fisheries
Institute (INP)and the National Oceanographic Institute (INOCAR).
36.   The component comprises five subcomponents: (i) Information Base Line Studies
and Environmental Monitoring; (ii) Environmental and Resource Management Policies;
(iii) Pesticide Control and Management; (iv) Mangrove Use and Management; and (v)
Establishment of the Guayaquil Management Unit (GMU) and Identification of Priority
Environmental Investment Projects. The total component cost is US$6.5 million.
The Information Base Line subcomponent (US$2,185,000)
37.   The Information Base Line subcomponent will support: (i) completion of base line
scientific studies of the Gulf's ecosystem pollution in the Gulf, (ii) an analysis of the
various biological, hydrological, oceanographic, and biochemical interactions which
impact on the Gulf's ecology; and, (iii) development and implementation of an
environmental monitoring and control system.



- 11 -
The Environmental Management Policies subcomponent (US$1,682,000)
38.   The Environmental Management Policies subcomponent will support: (i) policy
analysis and policy development for fisheries in the Gulf; (ii) resource use and management
of key resources: shrimp post-larvae, water in fish ponds, and mangroves; (iii)
preparation of an environmental management plan; and, (iv) preparation of guidelines on
enforcement and control.
The Pesticide Control and Management subcomponent (US$973,000)
39.   The Pesticide Control and Management subcomponent will support: (i) an
examination of current pesticide use practices in the cultivation of banana and other
important crops; (ii) training and public awareness; (iii) establishment of a component
working group on pesticide use and control; and, (iv) the identification of possible pest
control alternatives including integrated pest management.
The Mangrove Use and Management subcomponent (US$772,000)
40.   The Mangrove Use and Management subcomponent will support: (i) design of a
system of control and enforcement of mangrove cutting; (ii) institutional strengthening of
organizations which have a responsibility for control and enforcement; and (iii)
environmental education in Gulf communities.
The Guayaquil Management Unit (GMU) and Environmental Investment Priorities
subcomponent (US$888,000)
41.   The Guayaquil Management Unit (GMU) and Investment Priorities subcomponent
will support: (i) the operation of the GMU in the Guayas Basin Development
Corporation (CEDEGE); and, (ii) identification of priority environmental investment
projects.
42.   Under the Gulf of Guayaquil Component support will be provided for the
acquisition of office and computer equipment, and consultant services. Training will be
provided to implementing agencies as required for the execution of each subcomponent.
Section C      Project Costs and Financing
43.   The total cost of the project over four years (excluding taxes and including
contingencies) is US$20 million, approximately 18% of which is estimated to be foreign
exchange. The Government is requesting an IBRD loan of US$15 million. The remaining
counterpart funds of (US$5 million) will be provided by the GoE, AME and the
municipalities of Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca. Financing for the project operations in
Year One will amount to US$4.7 million of which the Bank will provide up to US$3.8
million. It is estimated that Year One disbursements will be approximately US$2.5 million.



- 12 -
Project costs and implementation schedules can be found in Annex 3 and 4. The Year One
cost table can be found in Annex 5.
Section D      Project Administration and Implementation
44.   The borrower is the Republic of Ecuador. The executing agency is Office of the
President through CAAM. The overall management of the project will be under a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) located in CAAM. The project would finance the costs
required to run the PIU, including: a project coordinator, coordinators for each
component, a training specialist and a procurement specialist. The PIU will ensure
consistency in the application of Bank Procurement/Auditing and other guidelines. Terms
of reference for the PIU coordinators and the training specialist can be found in Annex 8.
45.   Arrangements. Overall responsibility for project coordination and execution rests
with CAAM. During preparation CAAM established a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) to
manage a US$450,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and US$550.000 equivalent
PHRD Japanese Grant. In the last three years, this Unit has been entrusted with the
responsibility for managing the procurement and disbursement of more than US$15
million, from several international donors, including a May 1995 grant from the European
Economic Commission for 10.0 million ECUs, small grants from several European
governments (Sweden, Switzerland), and from IDB for a project in the Galapagos. The
Unit has done a remarkable job considering their size and the different management
requirements of each donor.
46.   Because of the large number of organizations which will implement project
activities under the four components, specific responsibilities and operational procedures
for executing a particular component or subcomponent would be specified into
implementation agreements or institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to be
signed between CAAM and each implementing agency. These agreements (acceptable to
the Bank) will specify both the technical and the financial responsibilities for all aspects of
project implementation, including the preparation of annual work plans and the provision
of counterpart resources. CAAM provided the Bank with draft "letters of intent" before
appraisal. Decisions regarding these institutional responsibilities are spelled out in the
annual operating plan for the year one.
47.   For the Guayaquil Component, CAAM would delegate project implementation to
a management unit under CEDEGE, which would take primary responsibility for
implementation of the component, according to a detailed annual work plan, satisfactory
to the Bank. The Comisi6n Mixta para el Desarrollo Sustentable del Golfo de Guayaquil,
comprising key implementing agencies will monitor implementation of the Guayaquil
Component and provide political support to the project. A Guayaquil Management Unit
(GMUJ) will be created to ensure that project objectives and procedures are followed. The
GMU will: (i) coordinate the technical implementation; (ii) supervise the execution of



- 13 -
studies, consultancies and training programs; (iii) approve the acquisition of equipment;
and (iv) prepare reports and annual operating plans for the component.
48.   For the Environmental Planning and Management in the Amazon, a project
committee, Comite de Proyectos Ambientales en la Regi6n Amaz6nica (CPA), would be
established with participation of ECORAE, MEM, PetroEcuador, representatives of
provincial and municipal governments, and local NGOs, under the overall coordination of
CAAM. CAAM will prepare specific criteria acceptable to the Bank for subproject
approval. Criteria are likely to include: importance to the local environment, community
participation, project sustainablility, eligibility requirements, potential for replication, and a
cost ceiling. The CPA will: (i) meet twice a year to review and recommend grant
proposals for subprojects to finance environmental activities; (ii) review and comment on
the annual operating plan for the Amazon presented by CAAM in close consultation with
ECORAE; (iii) approve the communication and dissemination plan for the component; and
(v) recommend that the results of the studies are adopted and incorporated into the
operating plans and budgets of ECORAE, the Provincial Government, Municipal
Government, and PetroEcuador.
49.   For the Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening and Municipal
Environmental Management components, CAAM will make institutional arrangements
acceptable to the Bank with MICIP, MIDUVI, and MEM. These organizations will be
responsible for implementing their corresponding subcomponents.
50.   Project Management. At CAAM, the PIU will have the responsibility for overall
project execution, including all bidding processes, preparation and presentation of
disbursement requests, management of project accounts, and preparation of project
reports. An Executive Board for the project comprised of representatives from CAAM,
MIDUVI, MICIP, MEM, AME, ECORAE, CEDEGE, and CENDENMA will be
established with responsibility for setting overall policy and institutional strategies,
insuring interinstitutional coordination, approving operating plans and monitoring project
impacts. A Project Operating Manual containing project management procedures will be
prepared by CAAM. Adoption of the manual will be a condition for effectiveness of the
loan.
51.   Bank Supervision. Supervision will be based on the agreed monitoring of project
impact indicators. These were finalized during negotiations. The project requires about 65
staff weeks of Bank supervision over the life of the project of which 20 staff weeks is
estimated for each of the first two years of implementation. A substantial amount of
project supervision will be provided through the Bank Resident Mission in Quito.
52.   Bank Project Review. Annual project reviews will: (i) evaluate progress of the
operating plan for the previous year, based on indicators and targets specified in the
Operating Manual ; (ii) review and approve the annual operating plans for the following
year for each component, which includes monitoring indicators and key targets, project
impact, terms of reference for major consultancies, and a schedule of main activities; (iii)



- 14 -
assess the performance of the PIU; (iv) review project dissemination and the level of NGO
participation in design of project activities as reflected in future work programs and
operating plans; (v) visit project sites; (vi) review--at random--procurement processes not
requiring prior Bank approval; (vii) review financial procedures and the project account;
(viii) review compliance with legal covenants and auditing practices; and (ix) prepare a
comprehensive supervision report.
53.   Annual reviews will be based on annual operating plans which will be prepared by
CAAM including a detailed evaluation of the current years targets and accomplishments.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations regarding the preparation and submission of
semi-annual progress reports, annual operating plans and annual reviews. Semi-Annual
progress reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than January 31 and July 31 for
each year of project implementation, comencing January 31,1997. Annual operatng plans
will be submitted to the Bank no later than April 30 of each year. CAAM will review
yearly progress in the implementation of the project and in the case of unsatisfactory
progress, undertake the required remedial action. The Resident Mission will play a significant
role in the supervision of this project. Implementation tables for Year One and Year 1-Year 4 are
detailed in Annex 3-5.
54.   Procurement. Procurement of goods (including vehicles, computer equipment,
office equipment and supplies, laboratory equipment, etc.) and goods and services for the
public awareness campaign ( including audio/video production services, TV/Radio
broadcast services, pamphlet production and program design services) would be done by
CAAM in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loan and IDA
Credits issued January 1995. Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost (i) less
than US$25,000 would be awarded through national shopping procedures up to an
aggregate amount of US$1,900,000, (ii) US$25,000 or more but less than US$50,000
would be awarded through international shopping procedures up to US$1,300,000, and
(iii) US$50,000 or more through limited international bidding (LIB), among suppliers with
service and maintenance facilities in Ecuador. International competitive bidding (ICB) is
not appropriate for any procurement under this project, since no contract is expected to
cost more than US$100,000. Procurement of goods and services exceeding US$25,000 in
value will be subject to ex-ante review by the Bank. Procurement of materials and
equipment by private beneficiaries for subprojects would be done according to national
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. The contracting of consultants would be
done by CAAM in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by Bank
Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing Agency issued August 1981, using Bank issued
standard forms of contract and standard letters of invitation acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants' services per contract amounting to more than US$25,000 for firms and
US$10,000 for individuals will require prior Bank review. These prior review thresholds
would result in a coverage of above 80 percent of the loan. All procurement issues will be
reviewed with CAAM during supervision. CAAM will be responsible for preparing semi-
annual progress reports and annual operating plans acceptable to the Bank. Project
accounts will be audited annually by external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Summaries of procurement procedures and threshholds can be found in Tables I and 2.



- 15 -
Table 1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
US$ thousands (including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Project Elements     ICB*        NCB**    Other***         N.B.F.         Total Cost
1 IWorks
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment
Vehicles,Computer                 ----      2,362(a,b,c)                    2,362
Lab Equipment                                 (2,362)                      (2,362)
3. Consultant                     ----         7,776        4,300           12,076
Services                                      (7,776)                      (7,776)
4. Training                                   961(d)         100            1,061
(961)                        (961)
5, f'ublic
Awareness                                    2,000(b,c)                     2,000
Campaign(goods                                (2,000)                      (2,000)
and services)
6.Subprojects                                 892(c)         400            1,292
(892)                        (892)
7. Operating Costs   ----                     559(d)         200             759
(559)                        (559)
8. Miscellaneous     ----
8.1 Refinancing                                                              450
PPF                                            450                          (450)
Total                             ----        15,000        5,000          20.000
(15,000)                     (15,000)
Notes: Figures are estimates based on Year One Operating Year Profile. Figures in parenthesis are
the respective amounts to be financed by the loan. N.B.F. : Non -Bank Financed
* International Competitive Bidding
** National Competitive Bidding
*** Others Include: a. Limited International Bidding--US$1,500,000
b. International Shopping--US$1,300,000
c. National Shopping--US$1,900,000
d. not subject to procurement (eg. rent, utilities)



- 16-
Table 2. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$'000)
Category          Contract Value    Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to Prior Review
(Threshold)
GOODS AND GOODS AND             250       LIB                                    All
SERVICES  FOR  PUBLIC         25 to 50    Intemational Shopping                  All
AWARENESS CAMPAIGN              <25       National Shopping                     None
CONSULTING SERVICES
Firmns                          >25       Selection according to                 All
Consultants Guidelines
<25                                Review of TORs only . Other steps
in selection process are exempted
from prior review. I
Individuals                     >10       Selection according to                 All
Consultants Guidelines
<10                                Review of TORs only. Other steps
in selection process are exempted
from prior review. *
* Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultants contracts below thresholds in cases of: single source
selection, assignments of critical nature, and amendmnents to contracts raising original contract value above the thresholds.
55.    Disbursement. The loan will cover up to 100 percent of expenditures for
consultants, training and grants, goods (1 00%-85%) and operating costs (85%), excluding
taxes. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a 4 year period. A special
account will be established at the Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank with an authorized allocation up to US$1,000,000. The special account will be
managed by the PIU. An initial deposit of up to US$500,000 may be requested. Once
disbursements have reached US$2.5 million, the balance of the authorized allocation can
be requested up to the authorized limit. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed
through a special account. Disbursement for contracts costing less than US$25,000 for
goods and services for Public Awareness Campain, consultant contracts with firms and
individuals costing less than US$25,000 and US$10,000 respectively, all other contracts
for goods of less than US$25,000 and all training, financing for sub-projects and
incremental operating expenditures, will be made under the statement of expenditure
procedure prepared by the PIU and certified by the President of CAAM. Documentation
will be retained by the PIU for inspection during the supervision missions and for auditing.
The Allocation of Loan Proceeds includes Operating Costs. These costs include rent,
office equipment, furniture, and other related office expenses for the PIU, GMU, and
regional resource centers. Details on the Allocation of Loan Proceeds can be found in
Table 3. The estimated schedule of disbursement will last four years (see Table 4) and end
December 31, 2000. The project completion date will be no later than December 3 1,
2000.The closing date will be September 15, 2000.



- 17-
Table 3. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ '000)
Category               Amount of Loan Allocated     Percent of Expenditures to be
(US$ equivalent)          Financed(Excludin Taxes)
Goods, equipment and other                                   100% of Foreign and Local
project-related materials                                    (Exfactory cost) expenditures
and 85% of other locallv
Component 1                                232               procured items
Component 2                                790
Component 3                                437
Component 4                                660
Consultant services                                          100% of Foreign and Local Costs
Component 1                               2618
Component 2                                984
Component 3                                1759
Component 4                                1608
Training                                                     100% of Foreign and Local Costs
Component 1                                235
Component 2                                102
Component 3                                312
Component 4                                213
Public Awareness Campaign                                    100% of Foreign and Local Costs
Component 1                                773
Component 2                                33
Component 3                                519
Component 4                                475
Subprojects                                                  100% of Foreign and Local Costs
Component 2                                800
Operating Costs                            500                           85%
PPF                                        450
Unallocated                                1500
Total                                     15,000



- 18 -
Table 4. Estimated Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year     1997             1998            1999            2000
US$ millions per     2.5              5.5             5.0              2.0
y ea r          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
US$ millions         2.5              8.0             13.0             15.0
cumulative                     I                                I__
56.   Auditing. All project accounts will be audited annually by external independent
auditors according to recognized international standards. The audits will include the
special account and the project account at CAAM. CAAM will submit certified copies of
the accounts and annual audit reports to the Bank no later than four months after the end
of each fiscal year. Audit periods end on June 30 of each year. All audit costs will be
financed by the Government of Ecuador.
57.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Regular reporting of project performance and
advance project planning is essential for the efficient and timely implementation of the
project. In this regard the PIU will be responsible for the preparation of two reports: (i) an
Annual Operating Plan to be presented by not later than April 30 of each year; and (ii)
Semi-Annual Progress Reports to be presented January 31 and July 31 for each year. The
Annual Operating Plan will be a time slice of the project with detailed operational targets
and estimated financial resource required. The Semi-Annual Reports will focus on
evaluation of the progress made against the Annual Operating Plan. It will also identify
constraints to project implementation and identify possible solutions. The information
contained in these reports together with the annual reviews will provide data for
monitoring and evaluation of project impact. The Project Operating Manual will include
an annex which will identify initial baseline data for each subcomponent. This data will be
extracted from the institutional and environmental analysis undertaken during project
preparation and from other secondary sources. The characterization of the baseline data
will conform to the specific activities to be undertaken: studies, training, dissemination,
small scale infrastructure and community participation. Project performance will be
evaluated based on these initial qualitative and quantitative assessments and will be
examined in detail following the second year of project implementation. Indicators of
project outcome and impacts can be found in Annex 6 and 7.
Section E       Benefits and Risks
58.   This project will mainly provide benefits to populations living in Ecuador's urban
areas, communities surrounding the Gulf of Guayaquil, and communities in the
Shushufindi region of the Amazon. The most important benefits include: the development
of guidelines and standards for industrial pollution control; and, the analysis of factors and
policy options which can contribute to sustainable shrimp aquaculture and fisheries in the
Gulf of Guayaquil. The proposed project will help the government carry out its
environmental commitments by preparing the legal framework and strengthening the
institutional framework for environmental management and preparing the requisite



- 19 -
guidelines, procedures and standards for environmental impact assessment. Communities
in the Amazon and low income urban areas will directly benefit from the proposed pilot
environmental improvement projects.
59.   The project's main risks include limited commitment from participating agencies
and ineffective implementation of the project. The risk of limited commitment is reduced
by two factors. First, the commitment of the key participating agencies has been
established in signed letters of intent, and will be confirmed by implementation
arrangements and agreements (Convenios) which are a condition of effectiveness/
disbursement. Second, the programmatic design of the project based on annual operating
plans provides both flexibility to adjust the allocation of resources and promotes
competition among the project entities to get access to the technical assistance provided
by the project. The risk of ineffective implementation of the project has been addressed by
selecting CAAM, duly empowered to coordinate project activities, as the managing
institution of the overall project, in charge of all procurement and disbursement activities
under the project. CAAM has a good record managing the PPF as well as several grants
from international donors, including the Interamerican Development Bank, and the
European Commission. The project's strong emphasis on coordination and consultation
with national and local level NGO's and communities will ensure effective targeting and
implementation of the pilot subprojects. Supervision of the project will be carried out by
CAAM assisted by specialists for the more complex activities to be hired under the
project. Bank supervision will be concentrated in CAAM. Additionally, an experienced
long-term consultant has been hired to provide a close supervision of the project from the
Bank's Representative Office in Quito. The GoE has selected a fixed rate SCL in US
Dollars in order to manage the risks associated with the foreign currency composition of
their assets and liabilities and to reduce their exposure to LIBOR volatility for the
country's overall debt portfolio.
Section F      Agreements
60.   Conditions of Effectiveness: (a) Signature of one institutional arrangement
satisfactory to the Bank related to The Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
Component; (b) Signature of one agreement with a Municipality; and (c) adoption of a
Project Operating Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
61.   Conditions of Disbursement: (a) Disbursements for project activities covered by
specific Convenios would be conditional upon signature of the pertinent Convenio.
62.   Assurances: (a) CAAM will submit the Annual Operating Plan yearly by the agreed
date; (b) Subprojects will be selected, financed and implemented in accordance with the
Operating Manual; (c) CAAM will review yearly progress in the implementation of the
project and in the case of unsatisfactory progress, remedial action will be taken.






- 20 -
ANNEX 1
BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
Lessons Learnedfrom Past Bank Projects
I .    Since 1991, the Bank has been active in developing institutional strengthening
projects for the environmental sector in a variety of borrower countries including Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, , Honduras, Indonesia and Mexico. The experience to date
indicates that a well defined legal and institutional framework for environmental
management is important for policy development, environmental monitoring and the
implementation of environmental programs, including procedures for environmental
impact assessments.
2.    The design of the proposed project has also taken into account recent analytical
work such as the Bank's Urban Environmental Problems in National Environmental
Strategies and Action Plans, 1994. These studies suggest that environmental management
projects need to be designed in a way which effectively deal with political realities and
implement appropriate project management training as well as establishing environmental
management priorities and public participation processes.



-21 -
ANNEX 2
Participating Institutions *
Component 1
The Environment Advisory Commission of the Presidency of the Republic
Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration and Fisheries
Ministry of Energy and Mines
Component 2
PetroEcuador
The Municipality of Shushufindi
Component 3
Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
The Municipality of Quito
The Municipality of Guayaquil
The Municipality of Cuenca
The Provincial Council of Manabi
The Association of Municipalities
Component 4
The National Fisheries Institute
The Ministry of Agriculture
The National Oceanographic Institute
* This list includes the main participating institutions. Other institutions may participate in
the implementation of the project. Decisions regarding participation will be reached during
the Annual Reviews and fully detailed in the Annual Operating Plan.



ECUADOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost Table and Implementation Schedule
.-,. ............... ,sge-; g.  ,     ................. ~..  . 1tni    .4    . O'         100*§      1Q00.     .. iO".         t0*.'', ..K....d.
1     Polky Fwmulation and lnslilutional Strengthening
65001   32.5   1884   IS6 1   1861    894  XX XX XX XX X XXX X
1.1 CAAM                                                     2800   14.0   1289   657    657    19    X XX X XX X X X XX X X
1.2  MIDUVI                                                  1420    7.1    205    498    498    219   X X X X X X X X X X X X X
1.3   MICIP                                                  1500         7.5         130        527        527         316     X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
1.4 MEM                                                       780    3.9   260   179   179   161  X X XX X X X X X X X X X
2     Envirnmenlal Planning & Management In
EcuadorianAmanon                                       3100    15.5   1151    712    823    414   X X X X XX X X X X X X                                                                             >
2.1   Simbaiindi Pilot Plan for Exvironimntaly                                                                                                                                                             :
SusuinAble Development                                 1700         6.5        680         364        510         146     X   X   X   X   X   X   X X X         X   X                               M
22    AmazonSusd wbleDcvelopment Pogram                       1000         5.0        361        213         213        213      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
2.3   Suppot to Local Organizationa                           400         2.0         110        135         100         55      X   X   X X   X   X   X   X  X X   X   X                                  W
3     MugIidpal Enyiroraental Management                     3900         19.5       1115        842        1146        797          X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
3.1   Lo,whar loNeighbodoods                                  45S         2.3        245          52         104         54          X   X   X   X   X X   X  X
3.2  Sml a Medium Sized Cities                               1635         8.2    400    344    516    374                            X X X X X X X X X X   X X  X
3.3   Quito                                                   766         3.8        230         161        241         134          X   X  X  X    X  X
3.4  Guayaquil                                                675         3.4          90    203    203    178                       X X X X XX X X  X X X X X X
3.5   CoeIA                                                   369         1.8         150         S1         Sl          56          X  XX    X  X  X
4     E.o.kummnlat lurzallon aand Managemeat for
theGulfofCuayaquli                                     6500    32.5    580    1570   2177   2173   XX X X X X X X X X X X X  X X
4.1    BacLinc Studicr h Environmental Maaitoring
2185        10.9        215         523        732         716     X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.2  RPeoumeManCgemcntPolicica                               1682         8.4          60        308         718        597      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.3  Peslicdo Conal A Managemat                               973    4.9    110    198    297    369   X XX X X X X X X X X X X X X
4.4   Mianvc Usc & Managemnct                                 772         3.9         75         207        207         282     X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X  X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.5  PrjcectMuganagtandlavcstmcntPlan                         S8S         4.4    120    335    223                      210   X X XX X X X X X X X   XX    X X
TOtal                                                20000        100.0       4730       4986        6007       4277



ECUADOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table and Implementation Schedule
..*.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
I    Polcy Fornulation and Institutional Strengthening
6499   32  1884  1B61  1861  893  XX X XXXX X XX XX XX X
1.1 CAAM                                                          2800   14  1289  657  657  197  X X X X X X X X XX X X X X X
1.1.1 Legislative and Institutional Developmentk Support for Ihe
CnnsolidatioaofPAE                                           501       2.51      154       150        ISO       47      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
1.1.2  Design and Implamcntion daf National Environwenal
Infnskation System                                           349       1.75       35       157        157         O     X   X   X   X   X   X    X
1.1.3 Dcvelopment of a National System of Environmental Impact
Ajssment                                                     200       100       100        50        50         0      X  XX   X  X                                                                     1
1.1.4 ProjoctA lplemeaAtion Unit                                   S00   4.00   400    150   150   100   X X X XX X X X X XX X X X X                                                                          t 
1.1.5 Training                                                     950  4.75   600   ISO   ISO   50  X X X XX X X X X X X XX X X                                                                        X
1.2  MDUVI                                                        1420   7.10    205    498    498    219   X X X X X X X X X X X X X
1.2.1 Design of War Quality Policics & hxbyrovmak of Curent
MoagitoingSyskemforWaterQuality                             1084   5.42    65    400    400    219   X X X XX X X X X XX X X
1.2.2 Daip of a National Solid Wade Managemeat Policy              336       1.68      140        98        98          0         X   X   X
13   MICIP                                                        1500       7.50      130       527       527       316      X   X   X   X   X   X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
1.3.1 PoicyDevelqopmentdCoordination                               254   127             0    127   127                 0   X X X X X X X X X X X X
13.2 Design of Industuial Poluiioa Prevation   Control Policics
631   3.16    65   200    200    166   X X X X X X X X X X X X X
1.3.3 Reviaw of Eidi  Fiacie Policies h Preparion of
Rcvised leUion                                               615  3.08   65   200   200   150  X XX X X X X X X X X X X
IA UEM                                                              779  3.90  260  179  179  161  X X X X X X X XX X X X
141 P4Lcy andCoxdina                                                418  2.09   130   119   119                         0  X X X XX X X X X X X
1.4.2 bhiitsiaal    St tlaiug                                      361       1.81       30        60        60        161     X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X



ECUADOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table and Implementation Schedule
w                                                                                            == :   . .   m   e    g<    ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . . .  
2     Eavlrteml  Flum_g    Mymsigsnt la Faindor
Amams                                                      3100      15.50     115 1     768       713       468    X    X    X  X   X    X    X   X    X    X    x    X
Z1    Slahuutlaisml PUot PIm for EnvauneataIb Sustainable
Devehmet
1700  8.50  680  420  400   200  X XX X X X X X X X X
2.1.1  LandUsePluming                                              200      1.00        0       100       100        0    XX   X  X  X
2.1.2  Usboa DvelopmntPaninudg                                     470      2.35       320       50       100         0        X   X  X  X
2.1.3  Soull SCaL Inaslutum t cProjcut                             600      3.00        0       200      200       200         X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X 
2.1.4 SubinabioadUs   LegbslationandPolicy                         250      1.25      250         0         0        0     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX                                        >
2.1.5  InipaclsofOilReuse                                          180      0.90       110       70         0        0           X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX
2.2    AJ"^oDnSusftaIabkDevdoprnent                               1000      5.00      361       213      213       213     X  X   X  X  X   X   X   X  X   X   X   X
2.2.1  CamuninlyRRcffrcstionandFishFanning                         676      3.38      300        50       163      163     X   X  X  X  X   X  X   X  X   X   X   X
2.2.2  T.chnobgyforcoffeepboducionand maagexmct                    324      1.62       61       163        50       50     X   X  X  X  X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
2.3   SupporttoLoc.OalOrgnlzaons                                   400      2.00      110       135       10       55     X  X   X  X  X   X  X   X   X   X  X   X
2.3.1  SmaIlUGaIs Progam                                           400      2.00      110       135       100       55     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X



ECUADOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table and Implementation Schedule
.B       . .  W    .   B   :    R   . .<       .................................... .:^ .  :.N-            ;aZ  .....  g   ::tq  . |    ...........   t.          .:
3    Muf1c1pa2Euvir.eintatlmagnamest                   3897     19.49     1115      841      1145      796X   X  X  X    X X  X  X            X  X  X  X  X  X  X
3.1  Low Incoe NNigbhreoods                            455   2.28   245    52   104    54 XX XX X X X X X X X XXX X X
3.1.1 Sniiiansevice                                    380       1.90      170       52       104       54 X  X  XX   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
3.1.2 Gree atea a& parb                                  45     0.23        45
3.1.3 Vdomrce mitigaiton                                 30      0.15       30
3.2  SmaolIAMedium Si" dCid                            1634      8.17      400      344       516      374 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX    X  X  XX
3.2.1 Municipal Ccnt-r4 A                              952       4.76      270      124       316      242 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
3.2.2 Provinciai Ccnr-Manbi                            682       3.41      130      220       200      132 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
Lri
3.3   Qula'                                            766       3.83      230      161       241      134 X  X  XX  x  X  X  X X    X  X  X X   XX                   X
3.3.1 SolidWutePlanangandMag ucnl                        69     0.35        S0       19         0        O X  X  XX  X  X  X  X X    X  X  X   X   XXX
3.3.2 zrdous WaePhaminandManagaent                      130   0.65           0    40    90               o X X XX X   X X X X   X X X X XX
3.3.3 Macnat                                            162     0.81         0       50        50       62 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
3.3.4 WatuQualityCoatrol                                 96     0.48         0       52        44        o x  X  XX X    X  X  X X            X  X  X   X   XXX
3.3.5 LAbwtQyEquuipment                                 309   1.55   280              0    57    72 X X X   X X X X X X XXX   X XX
3.4   Guayaqull                                        674       3.37       90      203       203      178 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
3.4.1 PolicyFormulation                                 192   0.96    90    51    51                     o X X XX X   X X X X   X X XXX  X XX
3.4.2 SuppoMt uicipoijtiesorf usyssWaInhed              142     0.71         0       32        32       78 X  X  XX X    X  X  X  X  X  X  X             X  X  XX
3.4.3 Environcatnal Education and Community
mobilizion                                        220      1.10        0       60        60      ioo X  X  XX  X  X  X  X X    X  X  Xx                X  XX
3.4.4 P-i.hSuppost                                      120  0.60            0    60   60                o X X XX  x X X  X X    X X XX  X XX
3.5   Cues                                              368      1.84      150       82        81       56 X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX  X  XX
3.5.1 Policy komulation& mplcnwrfttion                 201       1.01      ISO       Sl         O        O X   X  XX  X  X  X  X X            X  X  XX       X  XX
3.5.2 CoauniLyMobillation                               62      0.31         0       30        21       it X  X  XX  X  X  X  X X             X  X  X   X   XXX
3.5.3 Rivw BankProtection                                50      0.25        0        0        30       20 X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
3.5.4 F.aaibdty Sdy-Waw Oa RecycIrns                     55     0.28         0        0        30       25  X  X  XX  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  XX   X  XX



ECUADOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table and Implementation Schedule
......... .: . ........... ..                                            .... .........-..  .
4     Envlronmental Infornntion and
Management rQr the CulrorCuayaqull
6502   32.51    580   1571   2177   2174 X X X X X  X X X X   X X XX  X X X
4.1   Bast-UJn. Studies & Environment,l
Monitoring                                    2186   10.93    215    523    732    716 X  X  X  X X  X  X  X   XX XX X                                             X  X  X
4.1.1  Oceaap1icStudies                               984       4.92        135       215        337        297 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.1.2  Ecogy Ideracticns                             678       3.39         60        165       230        223 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X           X  X  XX
4.1.3  PollutionSurveys undMonitoring                 524       2.62         20        143        165       196 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.2    ResoureManagementPollcis                     1683       8.42         60        308       718        597 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.2.1  Policyfonnmation                               502       2.51         20        94        21S         7 |X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.2.2  ActionPlan                                     490       2.45         20        90        200        ISO X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.2.3  Surveiliance/Auditing                          691       3.46         20        124       300        24  X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.3    Ptcide Coentrol & Management                   974       4.87        110        198       297        369 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.3.1 Suppoftenforccnent                              468       2.34         20        103        145       200 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X            X   X   X   X   X
4.3.2  PestCcIzul Alternatives                        506       2.53         90         95       152        169 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.4  MangeveU"&Management                             771   3.86    75    207    207    282 X X X X X X X X X X X X   X X X
4.4.1  Control&Enforcement                            390        1.95        60        100        100       130 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.4.2  Inslvonal Strenglhening                        252        1.26         0         77        77         9B X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.4.3  EnvironmentalEducation                         129       0.65         15         30         30        54 X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.5    Project Management and Investment
Plan                                            888    4.44    120    335    223    210 X  X  X  X X  X  X  X X   X  X  XX  X  X  X
45.1  MnaguanntLUnit                                  521       261         100        185        133       103      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
4.5.2  PrqwrtionofInvcatmcnlPlan                      367        1.84        20        15         90       107X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X              X   XX



ECUADOR
Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project
Cost Table - First Year Program
Component I                           Com    nt2                          Component 3                        Component 4
Code      Cost USS'000      IBRD/       Code    Cost  SS          113RD/    Code   Cost USS V0   EBRD/          Code   Cost USS 000  IBRD/
Total    IBRD      Total                Total IIBRD    Total               Total  IBRD   Total                 Total  IBRD  Total
1.1.1         IS4       125      81%   2.1.1          100      100   1000/o  3 1.1       170     150    88%   4.1.1          135     90   67%
1.1.2          35        30      86%   2.1.2          320      290    91%   3.1.2         45      35    78%   4.1.2           60     44   73%
1.1.3         100        90      90%   2.1.4          250      205    82%   3.1.3         30      25    83%   4.1.3           20      15   75%
1.1.4         400       280      70%   2.1.5           110     100   91%          3.1   245    210    86%1           4.1    215    149   69%
1.1.5         600       500      83%          2.1     780      695    89%
1. i    1289     1025      80%                                         3.2.1       270    225    83%   4.2.1            20      1 5   75%
2.2.1         150      118    79%   3.2.2        135     115    85%   4.2.2           20      15   75%
1.2.1          65        54      83%   2.2.2           61       55    90%         3.2   405    340    84%   4.2.3             20      1 5   75%S
1.2.2         140       120      86%          2.2     211      173    82%                                            4.2      60     45  75% 
1.2     205       174      85%                                         3.3.1        50      40    80%                 _
2.3.1           0        0           3.3.5       1C      150    83%   4.3.1           20      15   75%
1.3.2          65        50      77%   2.3.2          110      100    91%         3.3   230      190    83%   4.3.2           90     60   67%               Ln
1.3.3          65        50      77%          2.3     110-100    91%                                                 4.3    110      75   68%°
1.3     130       100      77%                                         3.4.1        90      70    78%1
3.4    90      70    78%1 4.4.1            60      45   75%
1.4.1         180       140      78%                                                                            4.4.2         35     20   57%
1.4.2          80       0S       63%                                         3.5.1       150     125    83%   4.4.3           15       8   53%
1.4     260       190      73%                                              3.5   150    125    83%/*          4.4    110       731  66%
4.5.1        100      50   50%/
4.5.2         20      15   75%
4.5    120      65   54%5
1T   18841     14891    79%             2    11011   9681   88%             3  11201   9351   83               4    615    407   66%
First year totals (USS '000)
IBRD:        3799      80%/0
Project      4720     100%/e



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMNTAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts Year 1
roject Objective    Key Project Subcomponents            Expected Outcomes                    Expected Impacts
. Strengthen         Policy Studies, Dissemination Campaigns Institutional Franework for Environmental Improved environmental planning and
apacity of          (Legislative and Institutional Support  Management                        coordination at the national level
SAAM                for the Consolidation of the NEAP)
Enviromnental Action Plan Updates   Ongoing assessments of enviromnental
priorities
TV and Radio Public Relations and
Written Reports                     Improved outreach to the civil society,
private sector, and all levels of govenunent
Design and Implementation of a National  Review Examples of Similar EIS  Improved data base for environmental                     z
Environmental Information System    Systems                              analysis and environmental planriing                     X    m
Cadaster of Existing Information
Preparartion of Evaluation Reports
Develop a National EIA System       Procedures and Guidelines for EIA's  Reduction and mitigation of environmental
impacts from development projects
Provide Training for CAAM           Training provided for staff. Scope and    Increased institutional capacity
Staff                                Numbers specified in Annual Operating
Plan
Support the Operation of the Project  2 project reports and the Annual   Effective and efficient project management
Management Unit                     Operating Plan
Strengthen Policy  Develop Water Quality Policies and   National Water Quality Standards and    Future improvement of water quality
g and Env.      Improve Current Monitoring Systems   Laboratories for Monitoring          and reduction of water born diseases and
agement of                                                                                illnesses
Mll)UVI           Design a National Solid Waste
Management Policy                   National Policy Revised and Updated  Improved solid waste management and
reduction of environmental and health
Provide Training for Staff          Key staff upgraded in Water Quality and  impacts
Solid Waste



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts Year 1
rroject Objective    |Key Project Subcomponents          |Expected Outcomes                   Expected Impacts
Strengthen Policy    Analyze Fisheries Policies and Prepare    Report issued on pollution problems  Future reduction of fish disease and
aking and Env.     Revised Regulations                 facing fisheries sector              morality
gement of
CIP                Prepare Enviromnental Policies      Key Policy Analysis Reports Prepared    Improve Implemetation of Env.
Update for Industiy                                                     Regulations
Provide Training for Staff          Key staff trained in EIA Procedures and
Guidelines
Improved resource and environmental
managemcnt
Strengthen Policy    Prepare Environmental Guidelines  Environmental Guidelines adopted     Reduction of enviromnental impacts from
aking and Env.     for Hydrocarbon Operations           covering spills, pipeline stability, access  petroleum activities
Flanagement of                                          roads, oil ponds, water disposal
WM                Prepare Administrative and legal
Guidelines to Enforce ElA Regulations   Guidelines issued for permitting,  Improved enforcement
violations and accidents
Disseminate Guidelines to Petroleum
Sector                              Petroecuador and Private companies  Improved environemtal performance
receive policy guidelines           and adherence to guidelines
Provide Training for Staff          Key staff trained in EIA Procedures and   Improved policy imnplemetation
I ___________________                                    Guidelines
. Provide Technical    Prepare Pilot Plan for Environmentally    3 site plans prepared       More rational land use
Assistance to the    Sustainable Develpment
Municipality of
hushufindi          Prepare Cadaster and Land Tenure    600 land title issued covering approximatl Improved land and resource management
Legalization                        30,000 hectares
Undertake EIA of inpacts of Petroleum    Report on byproduct reuse issued  Environmentally sound byproduct use
Byproducts Use for Road Pavement
, a



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts Year 1
rroject Objective     |Key Project Subcomponents           Expected Outcomes                    Expected Impacts
. Implement          Prepare Plan for Improvement of Coffee   Technical Report prepared       Improved coffee production and
Sustainable           Production                                                               sustainable land use
Development Program
Construct Tree Nurseries            2 nurarries established              Community reforestation programs
initiated. Improved tropical forest
Establish Aquaculture Pilot Project  I pilot project initiated           management. Demonsration effect of
freshwater aquaculture
.Design and          Prepare and Implemet a Small Grants 5 Small Grants Approved              Ethnodevelopment Programs
Implement Grass       Program for NGO's and Community                                          Implemented
Roots Env. ,          Organizations
Improvement Projects
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S. Provide Technical    Prepare and Implement Solid Waste  4 waste management services established  Improved quality of life in low income
Assistancc in         Management Program in Low Income                                         neighborhoods. Reduced health hazards
nvironmental        Neighborhoods                                                             Employment opportunities created
Management to the
AVIP Program        Prepare Green areas and Parks        4 nurseries and 80 horticultural plots
Enhancement Program                 established
Design and Implement Violence       Action Plan Prepared                 Reduced neighborhood violence
Mitigation Program
. Improve           Prepare Environmental Management Plan 2 plans adopted and regulations     Improved environmental quality at the
uviromnental        for Loja and Machala                 adopted                              municipal level
ngement in
mall and Medium     Establish Regional Environmental     Centers establishcd with institutional  Opportunities created for communities
ized Cities         Resource Centers                     design                               to obtain envuvonental technical
assistance
Prepare Environmental Management Plan Plan prepared
for the Region of Manabi                                                 improved Regional environmetal
planning and management
Prepare Water Resource Management    Plan prepared
Plan for Manabi                                                          inmroved water resource management



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts Year 1
ProJect Objective     iKey Project Subcomponents          lExpected Outcomes                  lExpected Impacts
10. Assistance to the    Prepare Solid Waste Mgmt Feasibility    Landfill Technical Report    bnproved management of solid waste
Mucipality of Quito   Study
Purchase Laboratory Equipment for   Laboratory in Operation              Improved water quality monitoring
Water Quality Monitoring
I1. Provide Technical   Prepare Municipal Environmental   Plan prepared                       Improved environmental management at
ssistance to the    Management Plan including Municipal                                      the municipal level; improved public
Municipality of      Regulations                                                              participation in urban environmental
uayaquil                                                                                     planning: enforcement procedures
established
12. Provide Technical   Prepare Municipal Environmental   Plan prepared                       improved environmental management at
sistance to the    Management Plan                                                          the municipal level; improved public
unicipality of                                                                               participation in urban eavironmental
uenca               Create Enviromnental Department in  Department operational and ordinances   planning
the Cuenca Municipality             prepared
Enforcement procedures established
13. Improvc          Complete Environmental Baseline Studies Reports prepared, equipment purchased   Improved data base for environmental
esource and         and Establish Monitoring and Control                                     management
nvironmental       Systems
agenent in
Gulf of Guayaquil  Prepare Resource management Policies   Reports prepared and workshops   Reduce likelyhood of diseases and
for Shrimp Larvae                   implemented                          improve resource management
Prepare Subcomponent Operational Plans Plans prepared and monitoring     Reduce likelyhood of diseases and
for Pesticide Control and Management   initiated                        improve resource management
and Mangrove Management
Design Education and Dissemination  Report prepared                     Improved outreach to private sector and
Campaign for a Managrove Use and                                         Gulf of Guayaquil communities
Management
Establish Guayaquil Component       Unit operational with manual prepared    Effective and efficient project management
Management Unit
Prepare Initial Environmental Investment Files established for potential  Environmental investments identified
_   _     _~~~~~lPa              _investinents                                          land prioritized



ECUADOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Indicators of Project Outcomes and Impacts
Year 1-Year 4
___________  Key Objectives                         Mid-Tcrm Outcomes                               Final Impacts                        Responsible
.____ ____ _____ ____ ____   _____ _____ ___A            gencies
Institulional Stwengthening                3 Training Programs Implkmented            Improved lniplemnetation of Policies                   CAAM
Policy Analysis                            3 Key Studies UndeslUkeu                   Studies Results Implemnented                       MIDUVI/MICIP
Component I Hanwaizatioa of Legal Frasnework                Laws Revised, Overlaps Removed             Improved Framework for Env. MgmnL                      CAAM
EIA Procedures and Guidelines              EIA System Establisbed                      EIA System Fully Imiplemrented                      All Agencies
Improved Environmeatal Information         Env. Data Base Established                 bIuproved Enviroumentl Monilorng                       CAAM
Improve Public Awareness                   2 Campaigns launched                       2 Campaigns Fully Implenented                          CAAM
Regional Developmcat Planning Based        Land Use Plan Prepared                     Full Implemenation of Sustainable                 Mun. Shushufiidi
on Sustainability Criteria                                                             Land Use Plan
Design and Inmplemetation of Community     Prograns Launched in 2 Communities         Envirounmental Awareness and Pilot                 PelroEcuador/
Component 2 Based Environmental Programs                                                               Programs Implemented in 4 Communities               Conununities
Implemetation of Pilot Projects based on   8 Orants Approved                           Improved Environmenlal Awareness aud                  NGOsl
Sustainability Criteria                                                               Increased Conunurily Paticpation                    Communities                     X      t'
Improve Public Awareness                   I Campaign Designed                         I Campaign Fully Implemented                          NGOs
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Institutional Development and              2 Training Prograns Implemented and.        Muniicipal Env. Planning Units tilly               Munlicipalilies
Strengthening                              2 Env. Uatits Established with Manuals     Operational                                         Municipalities
Improved Waler and Solid Waste             2 Water and 2 Solid Wasle Plans Prepared   Plaits Operalioital                                 Municipalities
Management                                                                                                                                Prov Council
Component 3 Design and Lnpiemetalion of Cotumutnily         4 Progrants Designed and Implemeinted      Improved Envirosnmental Awareness in                  MIDUVI
Based Environmental Programs                                                           Low Income Neighboriloods
EsLablish Regional Resource Centers        2 Cetiters Established with Op. Manuals    4 Centers Fully Operational                             AME
Improve Public Awareness                   3 Campaign Designed                        3 Campaign Implemented                              Municipalities
Scientific Studies                         4 Studies Designed and Implemented         Studie Results Implemented                          INPMNOCAR
Policy Analysis                            Fisheries/Aquaculltze Policies Revised     New Regulalioiis Established                            MAG
Institutional Strengthening                2 Training Programs Implemeted             Improved Implementation of Env. Regs.                All Agenzcies
Mangrove Managemcnt                        Design Control and Enforcement Syst.       Reduced Managrove Destruction                           hIAG
Component 4 Implement Public Awareness CamFaign             2 Progrants Designed                       2 Camnpaigned Fully Implemented                       CEDEGE
Identification of Environmental             Priority Projects Ide ntified and Selected  Selected Projects Designed                        CEDEGE and
investment Projects                                                                                                                         Proposed
Implemcding
Agencies



-33-
ANNEX 8
ENVIRONMENTAL hMANAGEMENT TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CAAiM
CONSuLTANT'S TERMNS OF REFERENCE
COORDEIYATOR OF COMCPONENT
Tne implementation plan of the Environmental kManagement Technical Assistance Project in
Ecuador calls for the appointent of a Project Coordinator and a Coordinator for each of the four
Project components as well as a Training Coordinator for all training actvities under the Project
Following are the Terms of Reference for the Four Project Coordinators:
Component 1: Insttutional Strengthening
Component 2: Environmental and Planning in R.AE
Component 3: Urban Environmental Management
Component 4: C-ulf of Guayaquil Environrimental 2Management
afin Tasks of the Coordinator for each component:
1.    Prepare the annual operative plan.
2.    Supervise and evaluate the activities mentioned in the a.nnual operative plan.
3.    Negotiate inter-agency agreements with PATRk projet, counterpart institutions.
4.    Evaluate and monitor the aforesaid interagency agreerrents
5.    Draw up terms of reference for individual consultants and consulting firns.
6.    Select individual consultants and consulting firms either by internal or public biddings.
7.     -ire individual consultants and consulting firms according to the World Bank procedures.
8.    Produce technical documents for calls for tenders for gocds.
9.    Issue calls for tender (local and/or international competitive bidding).
10.   As a bid cominittee member, take receipt of and examine offers.
11.   Oversee and assess the quality of technical documents produced by individual consultants
and consulting firms engaged in the project.
12.   Take part, with the other coordinators, in the Coordination and Monitoring Committee for
the project.



-3 4-
13.   Produce monthly reports and semiannual assessments of progress on the project.
14.   Institute inter-agency coordination arrangements with PATRA project counterparts executing
agencies, NGOs and grass-roots organizations.
15.   Keep up a steady flow of information and good conmmunications between the project in
Ecuador, the World Bank's Resident Mission in Ecuador, and the Project Manager
at the World Bank headquarters in Washington, D.C., and coordinate the work of the
parties.
16.   Maintain and strengthen the coordination arrangements set in place during the preparation
phase.



-35-
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CAAM
CONSULTANT'S TERMS OF REFERENCE
TRAINING COORDINATOR
The implementation plan of the Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project
in Ecuador calls for the appointment of a Project Coordinator and a Coordinator for each of the
four Project components as well as a Training Coordinator for all training activities under the
Project.
Following are the Terms of Reference for the Training Coordinator:
Main Tasks of the Training Coordinator
1.    Develop an environmental training and dissemination program for the project.
2.     Develop a strategy for implementing the program: procedures for selecting and hiring professional
trainers; teaching aids; dissemination vehicles; inter-agency relations; infornation and awareness
campaigns; ways to sustain the program.
3.    Identify priority actions for the project's implementation.
4.     Devise indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of the program.
5.     Monitor and evaluate each program activity.
6.     Produce monthly reports and semiannual assessments of progress on the project.



-36-
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CAAM
CONSULTANT'S TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT COORDINATOR
The implementation plan of the Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project in
Ecuador calls for the appointment of a Project Coordinator and a Coordinator for each of the four Project
components as well as a Training Coordinator for all training activities under the Project.
Following are the Terms of Reference for the Project Coordinator:
Main Tasks of the Project Coordinator
1.     Coordinate and oversee the administrative and technical work needed to assist in each phase of the
project.
2.    Manage overall financial status and operations of the Project according with sound financial on
operations procedures.
3.     Follow-up of fulfillment of all covenants agreed with the World Bank in Loan Agreement and in
Operations Manual.
4.     Chair the Coordination and Monitoring Committee for the project, whose other members will be
the directors of each of the four project components and the training director.
5.    In concert with the coordinators for the different project components, oversee and monitor the
quality of technical documents.
6.     Manage inter-agency relations with the project executing agencies and other institutions pursuing
specific environmental mandates in their respective sectors.
7.     Establish direct lines of communication with environmental NGOs in Ecuador, through
CEDENMA, and encourage civil society organizations to help implement the project.
8.     Prepare, supervise and evaluate the annual operative plan.
9.     Negotiate inter-agency agreements with PATRA project counterpart agencies.
10.    Review and produce with the coordinators staff the Operations Manual and Regulations for the
project.
11.    Review the content of the terms of reference for individual consultants and consulting firms.



-37-
12.    Supervise the selection procedures of the individual consultants and consulting firms.
13.    Supervise and ensure the hiring of consultants services.
14.    Supervise the production of technical documents for calls for tenders for goods and construction
work.
15.    Produce two semi-annual reports and anmual assessment of progress on the project.
16.    Keep up a steady flow of information and good communications between the project in Ecuador,
the World Barlk's Resident Mission in Ecuador, and the Project Manager at World Bank
headquarters in Washington, and coordinate the work of the parties.
17.    Maintain and strengthen the coordination arrangements set in place during the preparation phase.



-38-
ANNEX 9
PROCESO CONSULTIVO DEL PROYECTO PATRA
CON LAS INSTITUCIONES, ORC3ANISMOS NO GUBERNAMENTALES
Y ORGANIZACIONES POPULARES INVOLUCRADAS
CON LA GESTION AMBIENTAL EN EL ECUADOR
Con el afan de incorporar la participacion de [as instituciones ptublicas y privadas an los
diagndsticos y propuestas sactoriales para el fortalecimiento de la gossi6n arnbiental in e1
Ecuador, el Proyacto PATRA cra6 el 'Comit6 de Coordinaci6n (nterinstitucionai"
conformado par: la Unidad de Madic Ambiente del CONAOE, la Subsecretarfa de Proteccion
Ambiental del MEM. la Unidad de Protsccidn Ambiental de PETROECUADOR, la
Subsacretarfa de Saneamiento Ambiental del MlDUVi, al ECORAE. Asociacijn de
Municipalidades del Ecuador, CEDENMA. la Secrerarfa Nacional de 0esarroila
Administrattva JSENOA) y la Fundaci6n Natura.
Este Comint se reunio formalmente varias vecas en la preparacidn del Proyecto:
Feb 17, 1995
-     May 12. 1995
Jul 06, 1995
Adicionalmente, el Proyecto PATRA cre6 Comites interinstitucionales esoecfficos para cada
una de los componentes del Proyecto. Estos comites estan conformados por las entidades
contraparte del proyscto, ONG's y Organizaciones Populates (OPs).
Las principa(es reuniones mantenidas en esSos comitds fueron:
-     Reunidn de los componentas de Fortalecimiento lnstitucional y Gestion Ambiental
Urbana: I de marzo de 1995.
;Reunidn del componenta de Gestidn Arnbiental en el Golfo de Guayaquil: 2 de
marza de 1 995.
-     Reunidn del componente de Planificacidn y Gestidn Arnbiental en la RAE: 2 de
marzo de 1 995.
El nivel de coordinacion interinstituciona( no se limitd a las reuniones de los Comirds anrtes
mencionados, si no qua se extendio a] proceso de consulta a instituciones publicas y
privadas, realizado par (os consultores contratados en el proyecto y el equipo de
coordinacidn del mismo, durante toda la fase de preparacidn.
Coma resultado de esra coordinacidn interinstitucional tenemos que:
(i)    Existe un alto grado de aceptacidn y conocimiento del Proyecto PATRA en el
contexto ambientalista ecuatoriano.
(i;)   La formulacidn de la propuestas incluidas en el Proyecto fue realizada en su gran
mayerfa par las misrnas entidades contrapartes efecutoras en colaboracidn con los
consultores contratados para ese efecto.
Por otra parte, las ONGs ambientalistas ecuatorianas han side debidamente informadas a
incorporadas al proceso a travds de:
fi)   Incorporacidn del CEDENMA y Fundacidn Natura en a] Comit4 de Coordinacidn



-39-
Inzarinstiucional del Proyecto.
(ii)    Presencia del 'staff" de coordinacidn del Proyecto PATRA en una reunidn de
9iforrmactdn en ralacidn al proyecto convocada por el CEDENMA, el dfa 16 de
agosto de 1995.
(iii)    Raunidn de las ONGs arnbienralisas ecuatorianas con el Proyecro PATRA. co-
convocada por el CEDENMA y el proyecto el dta 30 de noviembre de 1 995.
(iv)   La oficina de la Mls4dn Residente del Banco Mundial en la ciudad de Cuito. contrato
a un socidlogo experto en ONGs. para incorporar la parnicipaci6n del sector privado
en cada uno de los proyectos financiados por el Banco Mundial qua actualmenta
estan siendo ejecutados en el Ecuador, quien actualmenta trabaja coorcinadamente
con la CAAM en la definicidn da esurategias de participacidn.
En la ejecucidn del proyecto so mantandrd y complementard el comitd de coordinacidn
general del proyacto y los cornisas do cocrdinacion soccionales. creados en la atapa de
preparacion, qua a mds da fIevar la coordinaci6n y facilltactdn institucional a nivel
operativo, cumnpfirin con las siguientes funciones:
(i)    Establecer las poitticas y estrategias da participacidn en cada uno de los
componontes del proyecto e incorporar a los actores mis representativos de la
sociedad civil en cada una de las acciones plantaadas en los planes coerativos del
proyecro
(ii)    Aprobar en ios planes operatives del proyecto los mecarismos de parricipacidn
ciudadana
(lii)   Resolver los conflictos quo se presentaren
(ivL   #Hacer un seguimiento del desarrollo del proyecto a fin de asegurar la correcma
participacidn ciudadana y pronunciarse sobre las avaluaciones periddicas de su
m archa.
Los Cmrniz4s de Coordinaci6n Interinstirucional tanto general como aspectficos seran
convocades semestral y trimestralmen-te  respectivamente, durante la ejecucidn del
proyec:o.
La primnera reuni6n de estos cornites sera convocada una semana despues de que el
prdztarno se haga efectivo.
Para al caso del componente amazdnico un Comitd de proyectos ambientales serd
estabiecido en la RAE. cuyas funciones estin descritas en el punto 48 de esre 'Technical
Annex



-40-
ANNEX 10
ECUJADOR
URBAN ENVIRONMIENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents on Project File
CAAM. Proyecto de Assistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Plan Operativo Primer Ano, Primer Borrador. Deciembre 1995.
CAAM. Proyecto de Assistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRRA),
Plan Operativo Primer Ano, Version Final. Enero 1996.
CAAiM. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Amnbiente (PATRA),
Solicitud al Banco Mundial para el Financiarniento del Proyecto Patra. Septiembre 1995.
CAAM. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Componente Fortalecirniento Instirucional del Proyecto. Anexo 1. Septiembre 1995.
CAAM. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Remediacion de Impactos Ambientales y Sociales en la Region Amazonica Ecuatoriana,
Sector Shushufindi, Proyecto Patra. Anexo 2. Septiembre, 1995.
CAA.M. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Gestion Ambiental Municipal en Areas Urbanas, Proyecto Patra. Anexo 3. Septiembre
1995.
CAAiM. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Gestion Ambiental para el Desarrollo Sustentable del Golfo de Guayaquil, Anexo 4.
Septiembre 1995.
CAA.M. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Los Subproyectos del Proyecto Patra. Anexo 5. Septiembre 1995.
CAAM. Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica y Rehabilitacion del Medio Ambiente (PATRA),
Diagnostico y caracterizacion Legal Institucional del Medio Ambiente en el Ecuador.
Anexo 6. Septiembre 1995.
CAAM/Coniission Especial de Medio Ambiente del H. Congreso Nacional. Proyecto de
Ley de Medio Ambiente. Agosto 1995.
CAAM. Manual Legal sobre el Medio Ambiente en el Ecuador. Volumnen 1. Agosto 1995.
CAAM. Estrategia Impacto Ambiental en el Ecuador. Febrero 1995.



-41-
CAAIM. Propuestas de Politicas y Estrategias Ambientales. El Plan Accion Ambiental. No
Fecha.
Politicas Basicas Ambientales del Ecuador. Decreto 1802. Junio 1994.



MAP SECTION






ev^                    80'                    7'I                     la                      7 777                   76
1 s                  ~~~~~~~ESMERAIDAS                   ')      *I
<(   § ,;. ) >X_ t  <'>                          ~C O  L O  M  B I A
P AC  I F I C  .                     ;ESMERALDA'S"'       1-,-
,,   I  Z : ~-._/ IM6ABLI                                                      A'._"niC s
0  C  E A  N  i  ooZrlz1AR        n 
1   l a d   o     s    FU<iTQ )             / i             \   y    ,>    [ r Aqv   1 C.,
ii-   ! } tV j  C07C)rAXj i _           t             q                                     \      <~~- A--
SMnni d. ,-6/8                                                                                    F Ck- -   f  t< f-1hAeAa rCdn             9sjReiel
Sff/  Kgt    X                                  s-                            qOU't-xE-  1   z~~~p 
(\ 4 X ><~~~~c  ,A9orA .........................   t          
i 1 ;r    S  e<\91  />v 1A!3t~. A,
a   ,,,o  ,1.   s        Wi                       l           ,,, , TEN
Guyaui !J  jUr_o^. bie .........................../  l? .. EMIONMETA
- 1            t\ (Le",              A1qUiA /7                            7          MNAEETPOEC
{ ' %t    $(9   9tt-lt--             )RIO                ' 
5 S  <XS   <) 5 J  Z Ai@ /     |ACHIPiELAGC\DE CC}tC;N|                OTHER AtL  EAIHER'RZ^A
P E R ~U   (  I  sA YA AVD - NENnNLSUDRE
0   25   50   75  11       FERNASN_                    MORONA
S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~P 5-                     ASNETAI A                   G 0
rbr~~ 9Xb' a u ~~E O2507AN 3-st/  5A
3          Gu)I ot                            'A9                                                                         ECUADOR 17o   '.









IMAGING
Report No: 0f  6716 EC
Type: MOP



