Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24360
IMPLEMENTArION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39980; TF-25282; PPFB-P1810)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project
June 27, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 3, 2000)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAAM          -      Environmental Advisory Commission
CAVIP         -     Program for Improving Poor Neighborhoods and Low Income Housing
CONCOPE       -      Consortium of Ecuadorian Provincial Councils
CPM           -     Manabi Provincial Council
EIA           -     Environmental Impact Assessment
GoE           -      Government of Ecuador
MEM           -     Ministry of Energy and Mines
MICIP         -     Ministry of Industry, Conmnerce, Integration and Fisheries
MDUVI         -     Ministry of Urban Development
MoE           -     Ministry of Environment
NEAP          -     National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           -     Non-Governmental Organization
PPF           -     Project Preparation Facility
PHRD          -      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PCU           -      Project Coordination Unit
UGA           -      Environmental Management Unit
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Steven P. Maber



ECUADOR
Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower ICR                                                            31
Annex 9. Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Environment                 44
Map






Project ID: P007128                                      Project Name: Environmental Management
Technical Assistance Project
Team Leader: Steven P. Maber                             TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       ReportDate: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Environmental Management Technical Assistance  LIC/T1 Number: SCL-39980;
Project                                                      TF-25282;
PPFB-P1810
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: W - Enviromnent Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/09/1995                             Effective: 06/01/1996        09/20/1996
Appraisal:  11/23/1995                               MTR:                      02/08/1999
Approval:  04/04/1996                             Closing: 09/15/2000          12/15/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT OF ECUADOR/Ministry of Environment
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel Guerrero                           Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Teresa Serra                              Eugene McCarthy
Team Leader at ICR:  Steven Maber                             Usamah Dabbagh
ICR Primary Author:  Angela G. Armstrong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and design of the Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project should be
assessed in the context of (i) the economic and political conditions prevailing in Ecuador and (ii) the
country's stage in the development of its environmental framework. At the outset, Ecuador faced one of its
worst economic and political crises. In addition, the country did not have a comprehensive environmental
protection and natural resource management policy to guide its development program. Three essential
elements were missing: strong institutional framework, modem legal foundation and effective monitoring
and control. The existing institutional structure was inadequate to oversee and coordinate environmental
management and protection, and there were several institutions with separate environmental mandates
functioning in fragmented and often overlapping ways, with most lacking the required scientific and
technical capability.
The Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project aimed to address these institutional
shortcomings and to respond to Ecuador's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The NEAP,
prepared by the country's Environmental Advisory Commission (CAAM), identified Ecuador's major
environmental problems, the priority geographic areas for environmental investment (urban areas, the Gulf
of Guayaquil, and the Amazon), as well as the production activities that had the greatest impact on
environment.
The key project implementing agency was the CAAM, created in 1993, which was the first institution
established in Ecuador to orient and propose environmental policies and national strategies. However, the
same month in which project implementation began, October 1996, the Ministry of Environment (MoE)
was created as the national environmental authority in charge of national policies and strategies as well as
the administration, management, control and coordination of environmental matters throughout Ecuador.
The CAAM was appointed to the Ministry in 1996 and subsequently dissolved in 1998.
The specific objectives of the project were to:
(i)   strengthen the capacity of the CAAM, and later the Ministry of Environment (MoE), to undertake
environmental policy analysis and environmental program design and management;
(ii)   strengthen the environmental management capability of three key ministries (the Ministry of Urban
Development - MIDUVI, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration and Fisheries - MICIP,
and the Ministry of Energy and Mines - MEM);
(iii)  establish and strengthen urban environmental management capability in selected urban areas;
(iv)   build institutional capacity and carry out the participatory processes and technical analysis
required to resolve two of Ecuador's most serious environmental problems, particularly those
related to pollution of the Gulf of Guayaquil and the area in the Amazon most affected by oil
exploration and production.
Despite the complexity of the project given the number of institutions involved, the number of project
components, and their geographic dispersion, these objectives reflected the Government's primary
environmental priorities at the project's outset.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project's objectives were not formally revised during project implementation, the project was
restructured in July 1999 following the Mid-Term Review under an Amendment to the Loan Agreement in
an effort to consolidate a number of project interventions and provide the appropriate institutional
- 2 -



framework to implement the project. Objectives were not formally revised, as they were considered
sufficiently broad not to warrant a revision. The project restructuring stemmed from the Ministry of
Finance's concern to reduce the total amount of the loan due to fiscal constraints as well as the Bank's
concern with the timely implementation of the program and the sustainability of project activities beyond
the closing date. To address these concerns, the government updated the project's performance indicators
to help ensure that project activities would be targeted toward achieving the objectives as well as to ensure
their future sustainability (see Annex 1).
3.3 Original Components:
Table 1. Costs by Project Component
Costs (US$ million)
At
AtAppraisal Reprogramming    At Closing
Component                                             (1996)       (1999)       (12-31-2001)
A. Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening      6.50           5.95           4.42
B. Environmental Planning and Management in the
Ecuadorian Amazon                                      3.10            1.42           1.36
C. Municipal Environmental Management                      3.90           3.05           2.83
D. Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf of
Guayaquil                                              6.50           2.49            1.48
Operating Costs                                                           1.49           1.03
PPF                                                                       0.49           0.49
Total                                                20.00           15.02          11.60
3.4 Revised Components:
Following the Mid-Term Review, loan proceeds were reduced by US$2,986,000 and the project's
components were revised to provide increased institutional support to the newly established MoE as well as
other government entities, such as municipalities and provincial councils. This revision was reflected in the
Amendment to the Loan Agreement in July 1999 in which the MoE was named legal successor to the
CAAM and the following activities were cancelled:
Component 1: Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
-      MIDUVI's development of water quality policies and improvement of a water quality monitoring
system
-      Review of MIICIP's fisheries policies and preparation of fisheries regulations, including the update
of a fishery resources monitoring system
Component 2: Environmental Planning and Management in the Amazon Region
-      Training of ECORAE's staff in the preparation and implementation of sustainable development
subprojects
Component 3: Municipal and Provincial Environmental Management
-      Design of a new sanitary landfill for the Municipality of Quito
-      Identification of environmental investment projects for the Municipality of Guayaquil
Component 4: Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf
-      Completion of an information database on the pollution problems of the Gulf
-      Development arid implementation of an environmental monitoring and control system for the Gulf
area
-      Analysis and formulation of policies for the development of fisheries in the Gulf and the use and
- 3-



management of fisheries and mangroves
-      Preparation of an environmental management plan for the Gulf
-      Preparation of guidelines for the enforcement of environental policies for the Gulf
-      Public dissemination of information and training to pesticide users in environmental policies related
to their use
-      Identification of possible alternatives for pest control, including integrated pest management
-      Identification of investment projects aimed to mitigate environmental impacts of economic
incentives carried out in the Gulf
-      Training of concerned agencies' staff in environment management of the Gulf
In addition, activities under Component 3 aimed at supporting environmental management in the provinces
of Guayaquil and Manabi were re-directed to Component 4, under a subcomponent to strengthen Provincial
Councils.
Two project implementation phases. With this restructuring, the project can be evaluated as an
institutional strengthening program carried out in two phases. The first phase from project effectiveness to
restructuring (September 1996 - July 1999), was one that played an instrumental role in providing the
country with a basic institutional framework. During these few years, the government made the transition
from an Environmental Advisory Commission to a Ministry and although this transition led to delays in
project implementation, the project was able to provide the minimurm infrastructure and technical assistance
required for the Ministry to begin to lay a basis for its environmental priorities and programs. Under the
second phase. from project restructuring to closure (July 1999 - December 2001), the project assisted the
Ministry in establishing and solidifying its environmental strategies and programs, in particular its
decentralization strategy that has been successful in supporting municipalities and provinces in building
their own enviromnental management capacities. With the July 1999 project restructuring, components
were better focused on the country's priority of strengthening environmental management at both the
national and local levels. It is important to note that this exercise was further refined in March 2000, when
a Bank-organized workshop was carried out and assisted the PCU in developing an improved project
monitoring framework to better manage program activities and assess achievement of project results.
Subsequent to these component revisions, the Bank received a government request in late 2000 to reallocate
loan proceeds among project categories, cancel US$2,000,000 in loan proceeds and extend the closing date
by 15 months (until December 15, 2001). This request was based on a results-oriented action plan,
developed under the Bank's guidance, that defined on-going tasks that could be completed under a one-year
project extension. This plan did not denote a project restructuring, but focused on consolidating
components supporting the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Environment as well as municipal
environmental management (Components I and 3).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In the absence of a partially satisfactory rating, Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory. Although the
project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's CAS-supporting policies and investments that would
encourage implementation of public sector reforms and attention to the environment-as well as the
country's priorities for strengthening environmental management, the project was overly optimistic in its
risk assessment Ecuador's environmental management capacity was still very weak. Given the risks
inherent in creating a new institutional foundation, such as delays in counterpart funding, limited capacity
to implement the project's components, and institutional changes that could be introduced by a new
government, the project design could have responded better to these risks by including more realistic
objectives, particularly with respect to its cross-sectoral objectives.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomelachievement of objective:
As described below, the project achieved three of its four specific objectives, in which it played a key role
in assisting the Ministry of Environment to both prepare and begin implementation of its decentralization
strategy for environmental management
Strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Environment to undertake environmental policy analysis and
environmental program design and management. There has been significant progress in strengthening the
Ministry's capacity to carry out policy analysis, as well as program design and management during the
course of the project When the project began it confronted the challenge of being placed into a new legal
and administrative context with the transition from Environmental Commission to Ministry; this shift,
combined with the country's political difficulties, led to initial delays in the project's support of this
objective. However, the approval of the Environmental Law by Congress in 1999 confirmed the Ministry
as the national environmental authority, and with the project's support the Ministry has laid a solid
framework for environmental planning and management. In 1999, the Ministry established a Strategyfor
the Sustainable Development of Ecuador, which put forward a medium and long-term plan for sustainable
development. Using this strategy as a basis, the Ministry in the last two years has since developed several
strategies and policies in the following areas: water resources, disaster prevention, agriculture, industry,
transport, oil, mining and environmental service charges. The project has also helped the Ministry define
its current decentralization strategy for environmental management, forming the basis of one of the
Ministry's key management policies which is oriented toward establishing decentralization agreements with
local governments.
Strengthen the environmental management capability of three key sector ministries. The project was not
able to fully accomplish its objective of strengthening the environmental management capacity of MIDUVI,
MEM, and MICIP, nor to achieve a sustained environmental training program for the ministries' officials.
While the project did support MIDUVI in the development of norms for urban sanitation systems, MICIP
in developing an industrial environmental inventory, and MEM in incorporating socio-environmental
aspects in its management of the petroleum sector, the continuous changes in GoE administration, which
resulted in a high turnover of ministry officials at all levels, made the coordination and planning of
activities difficult.
Establish and strengthen urban environmental management capability in selected urban areas. The
project has played a key role in strengthening a number of local governments' management of
environmental issues as well as increasing community participation in environmental planning. The
decentralization of enviromnental management functions has been carried out in accordance with the
Ministry's strategy for the decentralization of management competencies, and the project has directly
supported this strategy in 54 local governments, promoting the development of environmental commissions
and environmental management administrative units. In addition, it has provided training to city officials
and the community to both increase their awareness of environmental issues and to strengthen their ability
to solve environmental problems. The Ministry of Environment has also created a Directorate for Local
Management, which has an office directly supporting environmental decentralization.
Build institutional capacity and carry out the participatory processes and technical analysis required to
resolve two of Ecuador's most serious environmental problems, particularly those related to pollution of
the Gulf of Guayaquil and the area in the Amazon most affected by oil exploration and production. In
the Amazon region, the project was successfil in increasing local community participation to address the
environmental problems of the Shushufindi region-a site of intensive petroleum production for over 20
- 5-



years-in which local community organizations helped prepare an environmental management plan that
provided an integrated response toward water pollution remediation, petroleum exploration, agricultural
production and solid waste disposal. Since most communities in the area relied on natural resources for
their livelihood and many had experienced extensive deforestation due to petroleum production activities,
the project also supported the training of local farmers in agro-forestry techniques and crop diversification
to improve natural resource management. With respect to the Gulf of Guayaquil, the project supported the
establishment of the Subsecretary of Guayaquil to manage environmental aspects along the coast, as well
as the development of its environmental management action plan. The technical assistance provided
enabled the Subsecretary to successfully support the sustainable management of mangroves, which were
concessioned to local communities trained in preparing participation plans and environmental management
strategies, as an alternative to clearing them for shrimp production.
Reasoning for Satisfactory project rating. The project achieved most of its major relevant objectives
(three out of four). Considering the challenges faced by a newly created Ministry in the project's initial
years and the strides it was able to achieve in a short period, the project is rated satisfactory. In a span of
three years, the project supported the young Ministry in achieving its primary objective, that of preparing a
legal and institutional framework for environmental planning, as well as improving policy making and
management at the national and municipal levels. The technical assistance provided to the municipalities
also supported participatory processes for addressing environmental problems in the Gulf of Guayaquil and
the Amazon.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Comuonent 1: Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening. This component was designed to
support the Ministry of Environment (replacing the CAAM upon its dissolution in 1998) in undertaking
environmental policy analysis and environmental program design and management; in reviewing and
updating pollution control legislation, including a national system of environmental impact assessment; in'
designing and implementing a national environmental information system; in developing a communication
campaign and training Ministry staff; and in establishing a project coordination unit. In addition, the
component aimed to support the Subsecretary of Environment and Sanitation within MIDUVI in the design
of water quality policies and the design of a national solid waste management policy; to strengthen MICIP
in the prevention of industrial pollution and the development of fisheries policies; and to assist MEM in the
development of environmental procedures and guidelines for the petroleum sector, as well as to strengthen
the ministry's environmental assessment capacity. After project restructuring in 1999, the MIDUVI and
MICIP components were reduced and focused on designing a national solid waste management policy and
the prevention of industrial pollution, respectively.
Phase One (Project effectiveness through Project restructuring): Up to the Mid-Term Review, activities
aimed at strengthening the Ministry of Environment had focused on increasing public awareness of
environmental issues through the "Green Line" (a telephone line established in Quito to increase awareness
on environmental legislation) and radio campaigns, as well as designing a preliminary structure for the
Ministry and its environmental information system. Although a number of training activities had been
carried out, they had been implemented sporadically without an overarching strategy aimed at supporting
the component's core objectives. The advancements made by the sector ministries during these first two
years were also modest: MIDUVI prepared a study on urban solid waste management; MICIP carried out
an industrial environmental inventory and a seminar on industrial pollution and cleaner production
mechanisms; and MEM developed legal and institutional studies for the design of regulatory policies and
oil and gas reforms.
-6 -



Phase Two (Project restructuring through Project completion): By 2000, the Ministry of Environment's
operating capacity had been improved with the development of legal and technical instruments under the
component, including the approval of the Environment Law, as well as a slight increase in the government's
environment budget and personnel. The component's primary results came in late 2000 and in 2001,
during the project's 15 month extension period. During this time, the Ministry of Environment established
the Directorate of International Affairs with the objective of administering and coordinating both
international cooperation and agreements. The project also supported the development of proposals for
policies and strategies on water resources, disaster prevention, agriculture, industry, petroleum and mining,
and charges for environmental services. Some of these proposals have been approved; however, most
remain as potential tools or instruments for future adoption by the MoE. In addition, a national
environmental information system and an environmental management system, Sistema Unico de Manejo
Ambiental, that includes an environmental impact assessment scheme, were designed, although
implementation of the information system has not been fully carried out and the proposed environmental
impact assessment framework is still under discussion. With respect to the sector ministries, the only
additional advancements are found in the MEM, where a proposed regulation for consultations among
indigenous communities, government officials, and petroleum companies has been developed.
Comuonent 2: Environmental Planning and Manaeement in the Ecuadorian Amazon. At the project's
outset in 1996, this component aimed to address the key environmental problems facing the Ecuadorian
Amazon: unsustainable resource use, the environmental impact of petroleum exploration and production,
the lack of ecologically and culturally sensitive regional development planning and the need for improved
community level organization.
Phase One: Implementation of the component activities, focused on Shushufindi, began in late 1997. This
component was successful in developing an environmental management plan for Shushufindi with the
participation of local community organizations (including indigenous communities). This plan included the
design and implementation of a wastewater treatment system, in which artificial marshes were created to
treat Shushufindi's sewage, as well as the construction and operation of a water quality laboratory. In
addition, an Environmental Management Commission for the canton was created, comprising a wide range
of actors in the region-the mayor of Shushufindi, private and public sectors, NGOs and civil society. In
1998, this component also financed the training of farmers in agro-forestry techniques, crop diversification,
and alternative technologies to improve natural resource management and to assist them in improving crop
production of coffee, cocoa, rice and corn.
Phase Two: At project restructuring in early 1999, the component was found to be providing an integrated
response toward water pollution remediation, petroleum exploration, agricultural production and solid
waste disposal-one where the local community helped to ensure the sustainability of environmental
achievements by overseeing the responsibilities of local government officials. This experience has been
well documented and it is anticipated that the participation process will be replicated in other cantons in the
region. Although this component was completed in September 2000, the Environmental Management
Commission continues to work closely with the community on pollution prevention activities.
Component 3: Municipal/Provincial Environmental Management. This component focused on
improving environmental management at three levels: (i) large urban centers; (ii) small and medium-sized
cities and the province of Manabi (which was re-directed to Component 4 after project restructuring in
1999); and (iii) low income neighborhoods of eight cities.
Phase One: Up to the Mid-Term Review, many of the planned activities under this component had been
delayed, including: (i) under subcomponent 1, technical assistance for a sanitary landfill in Quito, the
- 7-



development of a training program for urban environmental management in Quito, and the design of a
potable water quality monitoring methodology; (ii) under subcomponent 2, technical support for the
development of an environmental policy for the municipalities within the Manabi province; and (iii) under
subcomponent 3, a manual for environmental improvements in squatter settlements. Despite these
implementation delays that arose due to the lack of capacity and experience among the executing agencies
and the limited supply of qualified local consultants, the project during these initial few years did provide
support to the environmental management unit in Manabi through training and the preparation of
regulations, as well as to the Environmental Management Commission in the municipality of Cuenca. In
addition, the project supported the development of a proposal for the resolution of environmental and safety
problems in eleven squatter settlements in six cities.
Phase lwo: The component was successful in carrying out a technical assistance program directed toward
the provincial councils and municipalities in the large urban centers of Quito, Cuenca, Esmeraldas and the
Central Sierra. While the project was unable to carry out many of the planned activities in Quito due to
coordination difficulties among officials, a water quality monitoring program and an action plan for the
management of toxic waste were developed, with the action plan currently being used as a basis to develop
ordinances. In the municipality of Cuenca, support provided to the Environmental Management
Commission permitted the development of ordinances on territorial planning, directives for environmental
audits, as well as an environmental management plan for the canton. This Commission became a model for
other municipalities supported by the project. Among the smaller cities, one of the component's greatest
successes was in the municipality of Esmeraldas, where the Environmental Management Unit, through
strong political support, has addressed environmental problems and supported environmental education
with the participation of the Provincial Council, NGOs and civil society. Other municipalities have now
requested assistance from Esmeraldas in creating their own environmental units.
The component supported the development of a number of Environmental Management Units and Councils
in 23 small and medium-sized municipalities across the country, including three in the Central Sierra and
three in the Amazon, with the provision of training and equipment and assistance in the development of
ordinances and environmental plans. Six of these provincial councils, which have been integrated within
the decentralized system of environmental management under the Ministry's guidance, have prioritized
environmental action plans as well as created environmental management units. The component also
supported environmental improvements in low income neighborhoods, through the provision of community
training on solid waste management and water usage. It was successful in generating active community
involvement in the implementation of environmental management activities, in which the communities
produced guides and materials summarizing their experiences with a view to sharing them with other
communities in Ecuador.
Component 4: Environmental Information and Manaeement in the Gulf of GuavaouiL This
component intended to address the key environmental problems and environmental challenges facing the
Gulf of Guayaquil, including: fisheries, shrimp aquaculture and coastal resource management, water
quality and water resource management, inadequate enforcement of environmental policies and the lack of
inter-institutional coordination and management among national and local government agencies, as well as
industries whose activities impacted the Gulf.
Phase One: In the project's first years, a lack of communication as well as differences of opinion regarding
component objectives among key component stakeholders delayed implementation of the component's
planned activities. By early 1999, five activities had been initiated focusing on the development of an
information baseline, which provided an analysis of the Gulf ecosystem as well as a proposal for pesticide
control. Because planned activities under the remaining subcomponents were not initiated, a loss of
- 8 -



credibility arose among the respective counterpart organizations that weakened the prospects for the
environmental institutional strengthening envisioned under this component.
Phase Two: After the Mid-Term Review and reprogramming of 1999, the component's activities were
reduced and those remaining were refocused toward the decentralization of environmental functions among
the municipalities of the Gulf, with a view to strengthening environmental management within the
municipality of Guayaquil and the Manabi Provincial Council, which had been included under Component
3 before the reprogramming, as well as 12 additional municipalities of the Gulf's bioregion. Equally, the
creation of an environmental information system was prioritized since it would be an important tool in
establishing policies and projects as well as monitoring environmental conditions throughout the gulf
region, including the development of a complete natural resources inventory of the Gulf, and the
establishment of procedures for the concession of mangroves to local communities to support their
sustainable management. During the project's last year of implementation, brief but comprehensive
support was provided to the 12 additional municipalities, which received assistance through basic training
and the development of ordinances and base-line studies on current environmental challenges.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Available.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Available.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Support in the creation of Ministry of Environment. The project was an important element in helping
define the institutional structure of the newly created Ministry, often providing the majority of its budgetary
resources. At project closure, the Ministry relies on an Iiternational Projects Unit, comprised of PCU
staff, as well as an International Affairs Unit, designed with the project's support. The organizational
structure of the Ministry is presented in Annex 9. The project has not only supported the institution's
structure, but helped the Ministry in its development of environmental policies and management
instruments.
Decentralization of environmental management. The project played an important role in strengthening
local environmental offices, by introducing environmental management, sustainable resource management,
and community participation in local planning agendas and action plans. Through this process, the project
supported the development of a decentralization model that could be replicated in other municipalities.
This decentralization model has formed the basis of one of the Ministry's key management policies, which
brings about the following positive steps: (i) each regional district relies on its budget and operating plan;
(ii) the districts and their officials have greater capacity to carry out their own initiatives and actions at
both the regional and local levels; and (iii) greater citizen participation in regional, provincial, and local
problems.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic situation. The project was implemented during one of the worst economic crises the country has
experienced, with the country's public policy priorities directed toward controlling the fiscal deficit.
Although the project provided the first loan proceeds for environmental technical assistance in Ecuador,
government counterpart funding was often not forthcoming due to fiscal difficulties, creating delays in
project implementation and threatening disbursements due to ineligibility of expenses on several occasions
when loan proceeds were used in lieu of counterpart funding to finance project activities and taxes. On
-9-



these occasions the Ministry of Environment did notify the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of
Finance took action to return these funds to the project's loan account.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project initially implemented without a clear and focused strategy. Although at the project's outset, it
was expected that the project would be carried out following the National Environmental Action Plan of
1994, neither this plan nor the subsequent Ecuadorian Environmental Program of 1995 were used as
decision-making tools or guides when implementing the project's initial activities from 1997 through early
1999. This lack of consistent and responsive planning, stemmed mostly from the change in institutional set
up that arose with the transition to a newly formed Environmental Ministry, which still needed time to
define its own strategy. It resulted in a series of disconnected actions during the project's first few years.
Political instability. The project has suffered delays throughout implementation resulting from Ecuador's
unstable political climate. The multiple changes in government ministers, officials, project coordinators (5)
as well as component coordinators and technical staff has led to several changes in the government's
environmental priorities, affecting the continuity and execution of the project's components. At the
project's outset, it faced an administration under transition. The project experienced further delays in 1997
and 1998, during the transition from the CAAM to the Ministry of Environment, and the Project
Coordination Unit remained under the CAAM during the first years of the project, operating independently
and with little integration and coordination with the Ministry of Environment. With the delays faced in
1996 through 1998, the project was approximately 20 months behind schedule by early 1999. A political
coup in February 2000 resulted in a general change in the administration and in the Ministry of
Environment temporarily merging with the Ministry of Tourism, although it was reconstituted as a separate
entity by political decree two months later. In addition, although the structural organization of the Ministry
of Environment was first approved in April 1998, efforts to structure the Ministry suffered delays and the
Ministry's current structure was officially established through a ministerial agreement only in May 2001.
Table 2. Turnover in the Leadership of the Ministry of Environment and other Key Institutions
Function                                 Period                     Officeholder
President of the Republic               1992-96                  Sixto Duran Ball6n
1996-98                  Abdala Bucarem
1998-98                   Fabia.n Alarc6n
1998-2000                   Jamil Mahuad
2000-present                Gustavo Noboa
Minister of Environment                 1996-97                    Jaime Galarza
1997-98                  Flor. Ma. Valverde
1998-2000                Yolanda Kakabadse
2000-2001                  Rodolfo Rend6n
2001-present                Lourdes Luque
Director of the Environmental             -96                      Luis Carrera
Advisory Commission                 1996-98                 Jorge Lara Salom6n
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management and coordination weaknesses of the PCU During the first three years of project
implementation, the project coordination unit lacked effective intemal control procedures to monitor and
oversee project activities, as well as clear procurement and contracting processes. A Bank procurement
review was carried out in early 2000, arising from a prior review of consultant selection processes which
revealed that the implementing unit was not utilizing procurement documents and procedures acceptable to
- 1 0 -



the Bank. The review found that the implementation unit and component coordinators had limited
knowledge of the Bank's procurement procedures as well as limited procurement capacity. This was
remedied in mid 2000 through training provided to the PCU by a Bank procurement specialist.
Quality of studies and programs. A performance audit conducted in mid 2000 indicated that the quality of
a number of products financed by the project in its first few years had suffered due to the hiring of local
consultants with little environmental experience, vague Terms of Reference (often only loosely connected
with a specific project objective), and a lack of adequate monitoring of project activities. This was
remedied with the Bank Team working more closely with PCU staff on reviewing Terms of Reference and
providing better guidance to the PCU during the consultant'selection process. In addition, the Bank worked
closely with the PCU team to prepare monitoring schedules to assess progress in executing project
programs and activities.
Compliance with covenants. The PCU generally complied with covenants under the Loan Agreement, with
the exception of section 3.01 (c) which stated that counterpart funds should be provided in a timely fashion
in accordance with the annual plan. Noncompliance of this legal covenant was raised in the audit reports
for the years ending 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Disbursement schedule overly ambitious in the project's initial years given the project unit's capacity,
which resulted in two partial cancellations and one project extension. After the first three years of
project implementation, only US$5,154,628 of the project's total budget (and US$3,050,000 of the
US$15,000,000 loan) had been utilized and committed. This low disbursement rate was due in large part
to political instability, including the transition to a new environmental authority. However, a lack of
technical expertise among the project coordinators was also a factor; the project unit was not prepared
technically to implement a project that encompassed such a wide range of environmental aspects. The
disbursement rate, however, increased markedly after the project restructuring, with disbursements totalling
approximately US$3 million from mid 1999 through mid 2000.
Counterpart financing was often not provided in a timely manner during project implementation, resulting
in delays in project implementation and also in the Borrower utilizing loan proceeds to cover counterpart
costs on several occasions.
Other Donor Support. Ecuador garnered an impressive amount of multilateral and bilateral donor support
for its environmental program, totaling approximately US$122 million over the life of the project (including
the project's loan proceeds). The majority of this support was provided in the form of grants
(approximately US$100 million), which may have displaced the effective use of loan funds. This donor
funding amounted to approximately 80 projects, which have centered on environmental management of the
Galapagos islands, sustainable development of the northern frontier of the Amazon, an institutional
strengthening program for environmental administration, a pilot plan for the management of 10,000
hectares of secondary forest in San Lorenzo-Esmeraldas, a national biodiversity strategy and action plan,
among others.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project in just a short time period has helped lay a solid legal and structural foundation for a young
environmental authority. Support was provided in the development and coordination of policies, in
particular its policy on the decentralization of environmental management and the conservation of natural
- 1 1 -



resources. These achievements are unlikely to be reversed. The Ministry has clearly defined the stages for
the implementation of its decentralization policy, and recently signed in December 2001 a framework
agreement for the transference of environmental competencies to local governments. The Ministry has also
prepared a proposal for external funding for the design and operation of a system to help it in monitoring
and evaluating the execution of its decentralization program. It has leveraged significant donor support and
has gone on to implement projects on fronts such as sustainable development of the Amazonian northern
border, biodiversity protection in the Choco-Andean Corridor, environmental management of the
Galapagos Islands, among others.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ministry of Environment has recently prepared an action plan for environmental activities to be carried
out during 2002, backed by an additional allocation of US$ 1 million in government funds. This action
plan intends to support further consolidation and strengthening of the Ministry of Environment as a
national environmental authority by assigning an official to oversee and manage (i) the issuance of
environmental laws, (ii) the application of environmental and sustainable development policies by preparing
agendas to be discussed with institutional actors in each sector, and (iii) the dissemination and monitoring
of environmental sectoral strategies and policies. The Ministry also intends to improve its documentation
systems for both internal and external users, and will continue to work toward the passing of an EIA law.
The Ministry's plan proposes to make further progress in the decentralization of environmental
management through a national system to manage protected areas, as well as the formulation and
application of coordination policies with environmental management entities. To advance the
decentralization process, the Ministry plans to implement the national information system in the regional
districts and continue the development of training programs for those environmental personnel and officials
in the district offices. It aims to strengthen provincial and municipal capacities through the design and
application of instruments for territorial planning of natural resources and environmental services.
However, with presidential elections to be held in November 2002, it may be difficult for all of the
activities planned under this program to be completed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory.
Project preparation spanned five years, with the project initially identified in February 1990 in response to
a request from an Ecuadorian economic team for a technical assistance project to strengthen the
environmental institutional framework. The Bank responded quickly to the initial requests and several
missions visited Ecuador in 1990, 1991 and 1992 to identify and prepare the project. In 1993 the
government stalled preparation due to fiscal austerity measures, but preparation resumed in 1994. The
Bank team worked closely with key Ecuadorian officials, in particular the newly created CAAM and key
sectoral agencies, and appraisal took place in 1995. Despite these achievements, project design did not
adequately reflect the project's risks. Given the challenges inherent in establishing a new institutional
foundation, project design could have included more realistic objectives.
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory.
Bank supervision was inadequate during the first phase ofproject implementation on two fronts: client
responsiveness and internal reporting. During the project's first years, the Bank could have provided
greater guidance in assisting the project unit with the development of adequate and focused ToRs. Poorly
qualified consultants was often cited in the Borrower's status reports as a reason why many planned
activities were not carried out satisfactorily. In addition, between 1996 and 1999, procurement-accredited
- 12 -



Bank staff were not involved in most procurement reviews and no objections were often issued by the Bank
for consultant selection processes in which inappropriate procurement procedures and documents were
utilized.
Supervision improved in the second phase of implementation. In December 1999, a new Task Manager
was appointed to the project and in March 2000, the Bank conducted a workshop to evaluate the project's
achievements, as well as determine a realistic plan for the completion of project activities. It was
determined that the project's framework was unclear and implementation thus far comprised a number of
isolated efforts. The workshop began a process of strengthening the links of the project's framework to the
country's National Environment Strategy and decentralization agenda. An important benefit of the
workshop was the introduction of a results orientation to each project activity and component to improve
the monitoring and measuring of project effectiveness. At this time, the Bank also supported the project
unit in improving its project administration. A financial management analysis and procurement analysis
(that included training provided by a Bank procurement specialist) were carried out and the project unit's
staff were provided guidance in improving their administrative procedures.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory.
The Bank's performance in preparing and supervising the project is considered partially satisfactory.
Although the project's risks and complexity could have been weighed more heavily in the project's design
and insufficient technical assistance was provided to the Borrower during the project's initial years,
supervision improved markedly in the projects final years when the Bank provided much greater guidance
to the Borrower. In the absence of a partially satisfactory rating, Bank preparation is rated satisfactory and
Bank supervision and overall performance are rated unsatisfactory. The partially satisfactory ratings
reflect the Bank's performance more accurately in each case and these ratings are often used by OED,
however the Project Document System (PDS) does not provide this option. We recommend management
consider introducing this option into PDS for consistency with OED.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
The implementing agency (CAAM) was a committed partner in project preparation. Active in the
preparation process, it provided assistance to the Ecuadorian congress in drafting the new environmental
law and undertaking the preparation of the NEAP. These two activities were supported by a PPF facility
($450,000) and a PHRD grant ($551,323), both executed by the Borrower, that also assisted the
govermment in the following areas: (i) carrying out an evaluation of its institutional building and training
requirements for environmental protection, (ii) preparation of feasibility studies on pollution control, and
(iii) the development of programs to strengthen environmental monitoring and control systems.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory.
GoE performance was mixed, but on balance satisfactory. After the project's initial delays in
implementation, the GoE supported adjustments in the project's components to provide increased support
to the newly created Ministry of Environment, as well as municipal environmental management, in an effort
to ensure project sustainability. The GoE is also supporting the Ministry with additional counterpart funds
for 2002 to continue programs initiated under the project and support further consolidation and
strengthening of the Ministry. These funds are expected to partially offset delays in the provision of
counterpart funding faced in prior years, which had stemmed from fiscal difficulties and competing
economic priorities.
- 13 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.
Borrower's Implementing Agency not an Active Partner during Phase One. During the transition from
Environmental Commission to Ministry, while CAAM was the implementing agency within the Ministry,
the project coordination unit operated independently from the Ministry. During this first phase of project
implementation, project activities were carried out by the project unit without being sufficiently integrated
into the Ministry's daily activities. This separation limited the institutional strengthening that could be
provided to the Ministry during these initial years.
Project management and coordination often weak and ineffective during Phase One. During the project's
first years, the project lacked a detailed implementation plan and performance indicators were not well
established. In addition, the project coordination unit did not maintain an adequate filing system of
procurement, financial management and monitoring documentation, nor did the project unit provide the
Bank with progress reports that detailed the results of activity implementation.
However, project management significantly improved during Phase Two. In 1999, after CAAM was
dissolved and the MoE became the implementing agency, monitoring indicators were re-defined by both the
Borrower and Bank. In mid 2000, procurement and financial management assessments were carried out by
the Bank, and a rigorous monitoring and evaluation of project activities followed as well as an
improvement in both procurement and financial management. These improvements can also be attributed
to the appointment of a strong project coordinator with project management experience in early 2001.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
The Borrower's overall performance, as well as implementing agency performance, are considered partially
satisfactory due to the Borrower's weak administrative capacity during the project's first phase. However,
in the absence of a partially satisfactory rating, these categories are rated satisfactory, recognizing the
institutional context in which the project was originally placed, the advancements made in the project's
second phase, and that by the Borrower's own assessment these categories can be considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Complexity of the project has to be commensurate with the capacity of the Borrower. Designing complex
technical assistance projects requires a careful assessment of the Borrower's capacity to manage these
different challenges. The project was ambitious in its design and too broad in focus for such a young
ministry.
The importance of adequate supervision. Technical assistance projects require close supervision to be
successful. World Bank supervision of this project was inadequate during the project's first phase, and the
Bank did not provide the technical, as well as operational guidance that the inexperienced Project
Coordination Unit required. In the project's final years, Bank supervision improved markedly and with
assistance provided to the PCU in enhancing their performance indicators and preparing results-oriented
and priority-focused action plans, the PCU was able to make dramatic progress in achieving the majority
of project objectives.
Project sustainability and institutional strengthening require a close collaboration between the
implementing agency and the PCU. The project coordination unit often implemented the project's
activities independently from the Ministry of Environment during the project's first phase. Only in the
project's final years did this correction occur.
- 14 -



Bank extension of closing date proved essential in achievement ofproject objectives. Bank policy is to
extend projects up to one year beyond their closing date only in cases where project objectives continue to
be achievable, the performance of the Borrower is satisfactory, and the Borrower has prepared an action
plan acceptable to the Bank to guide project completion. Extensions beyond 12 months are granted on an
exceptional basis and are subject to an annual review of the compliance of the action plan. In the case of
this project, where many of the project's outputs were completed during the 15-month extension period, the
closing date extension proved critical to achieving the project's objectives.
- 15 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
mini 1tcfll Jet6
am i,Iente
Quito, 21 junio. 2002
Oricio No. 042 .1CrP IMA
Setior
Steve Maber
Rcprcsentantc Residentc I3IRP
Lima, Peru
De nuestm consideraci6n:
El borrador revisado del Infonre de Cierre (ICR) del Proyecto de Asistencia T6cnica para la
Gesti6n Ambiental en of Ecuador remitido por ustod cl 20 do junio. refleja ordenadamente y
con objetividad el desarrmllo del Proyccto. cn mecdiic de las condicionantes de una realidad
dinamica en el prilongado tiompo en quo tuvo lugar. Ila destacado los aspevtos sustantivos
de produclos y resultudos abtettidos de coda uno de los cuatro conuponentes, asi como las
actividades no cutiplidas.
E! hecho mnis notorio del desenvolvimniento del Proyecto es el punto de infloxi6n rvcisrrado
en el primer setnestre de 1999, como consocuenoia do la evaluaci6n do medio tiempo. 1:1
actierdo entrc las partes logr6 rcajustar Ia conducci6n t6cnica y admittistrauiva. Jo cual hizo
posible conseguir resultado; de gr4n beneficio para el Ministerio del Amribiente y gobiernos
seccioiiales, receptoros de la asistencia teonica y mrni productos generados por el Pmyecot.
Este acontecirtiento, pyr otra partc. marca clarantiente las dos fases del Proyeeto: i primera
con nutorias falencias. mientras quo la segunda registra el cabal cumplimiento tde los
cubjetivos especifics reformulados.
Lit documento comprende desde In eiapa preperatoria PCD hasta Is IBfecha de cierre; pen, a
nuestro entendcr, tambi6n hay una etapa post ciceff, en la que se ha preparado precisamente
este ICR. habiendo existido duranWl seis meses una peri6dica coinunicaci6n enEre el Batuo y
ia IXP PA llRA, y 6sta con el Ministcrio y otras entidadcs paiblicas como ia IContraloria
G(cneral del Estado. a eteelos de atcnder los requerimientos para las auditortlas doe estitS51 y
linawnciera.
A vontinuacion registramnos las siguientes observacioncs espcificas.
Co.uponente 3. Gesill6n ambiental provincial y municipaL
lIas actividades quo cornciemen al fortalecimiento dc las capacidades de los municipios (su
circunscripci6n es un cant6n y por ende ciudades medianas y pequeflas) esitn lien
descritas en este componente. En cambio, no sen mencionan las actividades para igual
objeto con los consejos provinciates (entidades deseentralizadas con ckrcunscripci6n
provincial, a sea do varins cantones). Estan selialadas en el Anexo 1 (p 15 borrador ICR)
en los numerates 8 y 9; ymais ampliamento en el Infonno Finml dc Ciorre Anexos 7b y S.
Los prodLictls rclcvantes fucrin 8 Agendas Provincialos, 6 Planes listratkgicos
-16 -



lkniStell} del
amnbierate
Ambienitales Provinciales. constituci6n o con solidaci6rk de 8 comisionrs ambicntalca
provinciales con participaci6n ciudadana. Adicionalmente se dliseii para las pmvincias un
sistema de inforniacifn ambieintal gcogfiea oon la correspondiente capacit3ci45n pamT su
inialmejo.
T'ablab 2.
El nombro correcto d41 prwsidento del pedodo 1998-98 es Pabian Alarc6n. Completar cl
nonibre del mninistro Rodolfo RendtSn (peorldo 2000-2001).
Swstenibilidad
Nos parece cotveniente que el B3anco manifieste su preocupacitln pr el riesgo potencial
quo supone la interrupcifn de los planes de wcci6n a raiz del cambio de administacl6n
gubermamental a partir del I de monr 2003. coni sujoci6n a la Constituci6n Politica. S in
embargo, el tArmino "unlikely" probablementn no es apropiado para expresar esc riesgo
poutcucial (penultima linen, nmieral 6.2).
Desenvolvimiento del Banco
Esitniamos quo hay excesiva rigturosidad en el balance del desempcOo dcl Banco como
insatisfratorio, pues siendo una organizscifn solvente no se hace justicia cuando solamente
tine de sus aclividadcz; no lha sido ejerideas a cahalidad. conio es cl casm quo nos concieme;
mls stin, al tomar en cuenta quo el Banco decidi6 rectificar oportunamente su rol con cl
Ministerio y Ia UCP. incluso reomptazando a Sus ftncionarios claves. El efecto evidente es
su directa influcucia a] l aber enkcaminado positivamente la ejecuci6n del Proyocto on su
segmuida fase, contribuyendo por ello al logro de la mayor parte de los objetivos, produclos
y rcsultados en t46rninos satisfactorios pars el Ecuador, rsate juicin consta en el ultimno
pairrasF de la seccil6n Locciones Aprendidas dcl borrador TCR.
Por lis razones que scfialamos solicitamos qute se revea la calificaci6n para el Banco.
Atentamente,
Coordinador QOencral
TUCl' PA'rRA
cc. Dr. Atfredo Barriga. Ministro del Ambiente (e)
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-17 -



10. Additional Information
N.A.
-18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Project Performance Indicators
The following indicators table was developed following the mid-term review, and expands upon the
abbreviated project performance indicators table for years one through four presented in Annex 7 of the
project's Technical Annex:
______ __  Expected Outcomes     Expected Impacts             Actual Results
1. Strengthen institutional Institutional and Operational Improved environmental  National environmental strategy
structure of MOE, as well Framework for Environmental planning and coordination at launched in February 2001.
as its operational capacity Management           the national level;       Project has supported
improvements in the national trengthening MoE's structure,
environmental system and  with creation of Climate Change
management               Unit, International Affairs Unit
and Local Governments'
Coordination Unit
Awareness campaigns have
TV, Radio and Press Spots,  Civil society, private sector  helped raise awareness of MOE
Programs and Publications  and all levels of government as well as it's programs and
know, accept and support  environmental issues.
MOE policies and actions   .
Consolidated environmental Improved mechanisms and  Ministry has environmental
information; environmental  options for planning,  databases on air quality,
indicators; systematization of coordination and decision  biodiversity, as well as system to
reports                   making. Improved orientation monitor environmental projects
in the use of natural resources and agreements; environmental
information available publicly on
website.
National Institutional and  Reduction, prevention and  Proposal for Operational and
Operational Framework for  mtigation of environmental  Legal Framework under
ELAs. Legal Framework for and social impacts from  discussion. Ministry has
ElAs. Procedures and     development projects.     agreements for implementation of
guidelines for ELAs                                ELAs with the Ministry of Energy
and Mines and with a Provincial
Council.
2. Strengthen policies and National water policies and  Improvement of water quality; Proposal for water quality
environmental           standards                future reduction of water  improvement submitted for
management within                                borne diseases and illnesses. approval.
uvi
3. Strengthen policies and Report on industrial pollution. Reduction and effective  Proposal for industrial policy
environmental           Prevention and control   prevention of pollution from  submitted for approval. Proposal
mnagement witiin        policies prepared and    industrial activities. Industrial for review of Pollution Control
MICIP                  disseminated. Law for     sector more aware of methods Law submitted, but not approved.
ndustrial pollution prevention and techniques for pollution  Industry inventory prepared; used
and control.              control and prevention.  as decision-making tool by
MICIP.
4. Strengthen           Regulations and guidelines  Further improvement of  Guidelines for petroleum and
environrmental         improved, reformed and    environmental conditions in  mining procedures under
management of MEM       published                petroleum industry operations consideration for approval.
- 19 -



5. Provide technical   Studies and design of the  provement of sanitary  Vacuum unit operating. Sewage
assistance to the      sewage system. Vacuum unit conditions in Shushufindi.  system studies finalized.
municipality of        operating.                                        Improvement of sanitary
Shushufindi and                                                          conditions in Shushufmdi.
consolidate the
nsolidate the                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Artificial wetland system in
environmental          Studies, design and      Improvement of sanitary  Shushufindi constructed; sanitary
mnagement process at  construction of the artificial  conditions in Shushufmdi.  nditions improved through
the local level        wetland system and sanitary  xperience concluded and  wastewater treatment.
landfill (both in Puerto  available to replicate in other
Aguarico and Shushufindi  regions.
Central)
Community education program
Education and training  Consolidation of         carried out. Environmental
rograms implemented     environmental management in Management Unit created.
(includes members of CGAs  the Shushufmdi municipality; Population has increased
and UGAs, key stakeholders  promotion of sustainable  awareness of environmental
of community)            practices for better natural  problems.
resources use.
Three environmental canton
Workshops to promote    Improvement of local     plans have been approved,
environmental management at overnments' capacities in  including participatory diagnosis
e local level in other  environmental management. of environmental problems and
municipalities of the Amazon Application of better practices assessment of Municipal
region. Officials and decision in the natural resource use.  management capacities.
makers of various
municipalities trained.
6. Provide technical   Provision of required    Improvement of life conditions 1,800 people from 10
assistance in          equipment; workshops and  in low income neighborhoods; neighborhoods received training
enviromnental          friing of community;     reduction of health hazards;  on food security, organic
gement to the    Uransfer of techniques and  increase of family incomes.  gardening, forestry and waste
CAVIP progm            procedures.                                       disposal.
7. Improve environmental Workshops and training of  Improvement of municipal  At least 33 municipalities
gement in small and municipal officials.  environmental management; integrated in the decentralized
medium-sized cities    Environmental appraisals.  improvement of         environmental management
pplication of policies and  environmental conditions in  system, operating under the
regulations. Manuals and  selected municipalities;  coordination of the Ministry.
procedures for EIA practice. reduction and prevention of
environmental impacts;
consolidation of national
system of coordination and
environmental decentralized
management.
Workshops and training of  Improvement of technical  Three municipalities received
municipal officials.     capacities in selected   taining and technical assistance
Environmental diagnostic on municipalities of the central  in defining environmental
industrial pollution.    sierra region for        responsibilities among municipal
Regulations (ordenanzas)  environmental management. staff. Waste disposal plan and
repared and issued and in  Reduction of industrial  river protection plan approved in
application. Private sector  pollution. Improvement of  one municipality.
commitments.             private industrial sector
environmental management.
-20-



8. Improve environmental Enviromnental policies and  Improvement of technical  Enviromnent Unit within CPM
management at provincial action plan prepared.  capacities of the provincial  created, with staff and budget.
level in Manabi        Manuals and guidelines for  council and other regional  Authorities and community
EIA application ready.   institutions for environmental worldng together toward the
Technical personnel trained. management. Improvement of protection of the Portoviejo River.
environmental conditions at
provincial level. Reduction
and prevention of impacts in
development projects.
CPM and 4 municipalities
iagnostic and data base on  Improvement of       oordinating efforts for
actual enviromnental situation environmental management,  ehabilitation of the Portoviejo
in Portoviejo River. Action  planning and use of resources  ver. At least 1200 ha. Of
plan for rehabilitation  linked to the Portoviejo River. surrounding land under
prepared. Education and  Improved attitude and    environmental management.
ublic awareness program  community practices in  CPM assigned budget for further
done and in application.  elation with the use and  improvements of the River.
conservation of the river.
CPM strengthened and has
capacity to manage rehabilitation
UMNIA CPM supported and  Effective and efficient project of Portoviejo River basin.
operating. Key staff     management at local level.
upgraded.
9. Improve environmental UGAs at provincial level  Improvement of        Six provincial councils integrated
management at provincial (councils) created and  environmental management  in the decentralized system of
level by giving technical  operating. Environmental  and practical conditions at  environmental management,
sistance to CONCOPE policies and action plans  provincial level.         der coordination of the
programs.              prepared.                                         Ministry. Each have developed
planning tools, received training,
rioritized plans, as well as
created environmental
management units; three have
assigned an environmental
__ __ __ __ __ __ __   _ __ __ __ __ _ _ _  __ budget.
10. Provide technical  Hazardous waste management improved hazardous waste  Pre-investment plan for
assistance to the      plan technical report.   management.              management and control of toxic
municipality of Quito.                                                   wastes prepared.
Laboratory in operation  Improved monitoring and  Laboratory equipment purchased.
control activities.
11. Provide technical  Environmental education and Community organized and  Education program developed
ssistance to the      community mobilization plan motivated around      with Municipality. 14 officials
municipality of        and manuals prepared.    eavironmental practical  from municipalities of Guayaquil
Guayaquil.             Community leaders trained.  problems and solutions.  trained in postgraduate courses on
ocal environmental management.
Municipality prepared contracts
to be signed with community
organizations to participate in
environmental management.
Improved capacity to monitor air
ollution with purchase of air
Revision, fine-tuning and  [mproved environmental  quality monitoring equipment.
- 21 -



application of proposed  management in municipality
municipal ordinance.     of Guayaquil. Improvement o
Definition of needed     environmental conditions in
instruments. Personnel   the city.
trained.
12. Provide technical  Environmental management Rationalization of the    Increased institutional capacity in
assistance to the       plan prepared.           development of the Canton  the application of EIA
municipality of Cuenca.                          Cuenca. Improvement of   procedures, through development
planning and quality of life of of pilot project for the auditing of
citizens.                harmfil environmental impacts.
Increased capacity of some
Technical, administrative,  More effective actions of local unicipal departments that
legal and financial studies for institutions in environmental handle environmental issues (e.g.,
the decentralization of  management. Better        SIG applications, approval of
environmental management  community participation in  environmental ordinances). Plans
for Cuenca. Action plan   solving environmental     repared for the management of
defined.                 problems and in the       the Canton river basin and land
implementation of defined  use.
plans.
13. Improve resource and Satellite information date base Reduction of mangrove tree  Norm approved for legal
environmental           on mangrove system. 120  felling. Recuperation of  concession of mangroves to local
gement in the coastal thematic maps. Legal  illegal occupied areas.  communities. 12 norms and 12
region. Strengthen local instrument for enforcement  Rationalization of mangrove  ordinances re. reduction of
governments technical   prepared. Community leaders areas use, exploitation and  environmental pollution in
capacities.             and organizations trained and conservation.         riority areas. Thematic maps
aware.                                              repared indicating mangrove
distribution.
ate base with environmental etter systematized    Database prepared, that led to
information about the coastal information about    development of marine
region. Aquatic biodiversity  environmental situation in the invertebrates cataloging.
center created and in     coastal region. Improvement
operation.                of resources use and planning
of development projects.
eports on rapid         Improvement of            Environmental management units
environmental assessments  environmental management at created and ordinances approved.
prepared. Environmental   local level. Improvement of
policies and plans ready and  environmental conditions in
disseminated. Environmental the costal region.
units in selected
municipalities created and in
operation.                                         12 municipalities have developed
modest environmental
Studies and experiences  Improvement of            management capacities. At least
replicated. Policies, plans and environmental management at 12 have developed action plans.
units prepared, disseminated local level. Improvement of
and in application.       environmental conditions in
Pe coastal region.
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal                Actual
Estimate
Project Cost By Component                      US$ million             US$ million
A. Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening                        6.50                4.42
B. Environmental Planning and Management in the Ecuadorian                   3.10                1.36
Amazon
C. Municipal Environmental Management                                        3.90                2.83
D. Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf of                   6.50                1.48
Guayaquil
Operating Costs                                                                                  1.03
PPF                                                                                              0.49
Total Project Costs                    20.00                11.60
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ thousands)
Procurement      Method
Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB            Other'        N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Goods                          --             ---           2,362           -            2,362
(2,362)                      (2,362)
2. Consultant Services            -              -             7,776          4,300         12,076
(7,776)                      (7,776)
3. Training                       -              -              961            100          1,061
(961)                        (961)
4. Public Awareness               -              -             2,000           -            2,000
Campaign                                                      (2,000)                      (2,000)
5. Subprojects                    -              -              892            400          1,292
(892)                        (892)
6. Operating Costs                -              -              559            200           759
(559)                        (559)
7. Refinancing                    -              -              450            -             450
PPF                                                            (450)                        (450)
Total                          -              -             15,000         5,000         20,000
(15,000)                     (15,000)
-23 -



Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (IJS$ thousands)
Procurement       Method'
Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB             Other'          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Goods                            -               748             686             502           1,936
(748)           (686)                         (1,434)
2. Consultant Services               -              -              5,953            973           6,926
(5,953)                        (5,953)
3 Training                          -              -               814              6             820
(814)                          (814)
4. Public Awareness Campaign         -              -               399              7             406
(399)                          (399)
5. Subprojects
6. Operating Costs                   -              -               .720            309            1,029
(720)                          (720)
7. Refinancing                       -              -               485              -             485
PPF                                                                 (485)                         (485)
Total                             -              748             9,057           1,797         11,602
(748)          (9,057)                        (9,805)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes goods to be procured through national shopping consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and operating costs.
Table 4: Project Financing by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category               Appraisal Estimate                Actual             Percentage of Appraisal
Bank          Govt.         Bank           Govt.        Bank        Govt.
1. Goods                       2.12           -             1.43          0.50         0.67
2. Consultant Services          6.97         4.30           5.95           0.97        0.85
3. Training                    0.86          0.10           0.81          0.01         0.94
. Public Awareness             1.80          -             0.40          0.01         0.22
Campaign
5. Subprojects                  0.80         0.40            -             -            -
6. Operating Costs             0.50          0.20           0.72           0.31         1.44
Unallocated                     1.50                         -             -            -
PPF                            0.45                         0.49                        1.09
Total     15.00         5.00           9.80           1.80
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persoris and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1990               1   Environmental Officer
July 1990                   1   Environmental Officer
March 1991                  7   Enviromnental Officer, Senior
Sociologist, Environmental
Consultants
April 1992                  7   Envirommental Officer, Financial
Specialist, Institutional
Consultant, Environrental
Consultants
October 1992                2   Senior Operations Officer,
Envirommental Officer
May 1994                    4   Environmental Specialist, 2
Forestry Specialists, Watershed
Specialist
August 1994                 4   2 Environmental Specialists,
Financial Analyst, Social
Specialist
February 1995               3   2 Environmental Specialists,
Financial Analyst
August 1995                 3   Sr. Water Resources Engineer,
Operations Officer,
Environmnental Consultant
November 1995               4   Sr. Water Resources Engineer,
Sr. Project Officer, Analyst,
Environmental Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1996                   6    Sr. Project Officer,
Operations Officer,
Procurement Specialist,
Social Specialist, Consultant
Supervision
September 1996              1   Sr. Project Officer,               S             S
January 1997                2    Sr. Project Officer, Consultant   S             S
June 1997                    1   Operations Officer                S             S
November 1997                3   Sr. Project Officer, Operations   S             S
Officer, Environmental
Consultant
February 1998               2    Sr. Project Officer, Operations   S             S
Officer
May 1998                     3   Sr. Project Officer, Operations   U             U
Officer, EC Resident Rep
October 1998                2   Sr. Project Officer, Operations    U             U
Officer
- 26-



Febnuary 1999               2    Sr. Project Officer, Operations   U            U
Officer
June 1999                   2    Sr. Project Officer, Operations   S             S
Officer
December 1999                4   Sr. Project Officer, Sr.          S             S
Economist, Operations Officer,
Waste Management Consultant
June 2000                   2    Sr. Project Officer, Operations   S             S
Officer
December 2000               3    Sr. Economist, Sr. Operations     S             S
Officer, Environmental
Consultant
February 2001               2    Sr. Economist, Sr. Operations     S             S
Officer
September 2001              5   Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S             S
Management Consultant,
Operations Analyst,
Environmental Specialist,
Environmental Consultant
ICR
December 2001               4    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.       S             S
Management Consultant,
Operations Analyst,
Environmental Consultant
March 2002                  3    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.       S             S
Management Consultant,
Operations Analyst          _
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks,             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation             267.0                       705.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   13.3                        47.8
Supervision                            139.5                       458.9
ICR                                     10.2                        39.1
Total                                  430.0                     1,251.0
Note: Project preparation was carried out during a span of six years (1990 - 1996). The project was originally
developed with the Ministry of Energy and Mines, Ministry of Agriculture and the Civil Defense as stakeholders,
and intended to address pollution control, biodiversity conservation and risk management. However, in 1992 the
govemment opted not to pursue an environmental program and the project was put on hold for a few years.
-27-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                   O H OSUOM O N O NA
[1 Sector Policies                  OH OSUOM ON O NA
O Physical                          O H OSUOM ON O NA
O Financial                         O H OSUOM ON O NA
X Institutional Development         0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                     O H  *SUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
rO Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Private sector development        OH OSUOM ON O NA
0 Public sector management          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specjfy)            O H OSUOM O N O NA
-28-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       *U    OHU
? Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS O U 0 HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.
Ekistika Sustainable Development Foundation and Dr. Raiil Moscso. 1999. Mid-Term Review
Report.
Hermann & Asociados Asesores. 2000. Informe Taller de Control de Avance.
Ministerio del Ambiente, Repuiblica del Ecuador. 2002. Informe de Cierre, Proyecto "Asistencia
T6cnica para la Gesti6n Ambiental en el Ecuador."
Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto - PATRA. Informes de Avance.
Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto - PATRA. 2001. Preparando el Terreno para el Cambio.
Vela, Clemencia. 2000. Evaluaci6n Tecnica del Proyecto Asistencia T6cnica para la Gesti6n
Ambiental.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower ICR
INFORME PAIS DEL PROYECTO "ASISTENCIA TECNICA PARA LA GESTIONAMBIENTAL EN EL
ECUADOR "
PATRA/BIRF 3998-EC
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
1.     Antecedentes: La Gesti6n Ambiental en el Ecuador antes del Proyecto
A partir de los afios 70, tanto el Estado como la sociedad ecuatoriana, iniciaron una serie de gestiones
tendientes a la conservaci6n de la gran variedad y riqueza de los ecosistemas y la biodiversidad del pais. Si
bien en 1936, el Estado asumi6 la conservaci6n de las Islas Galapagos, fue en la decada de los 70 que
empez6 un trabajo consistente de creaci6n de un sistema de parques nacionales. A su vez las
Organizaciones No Gubemnamentales (ONG's) ambientalistas, fomentaron el surgimiento de una conciencia
ambiental en la poblaci6n (especialmente en las grandes ciudades) que comenz6 a exigir a las autoridades
nacionales y locales la soluci6n de los problemas ambientales y el manejo apropiado de los recursos
naturales. Como respuesta, se introdujeron disposiciones sobre el tema en la Constituci6n Politica; el
Estado y unos pocos gobiernos seccionales establecieron unidades ambientales; se promulgaron leyes y
reglamentos relativos al tema aunque todavia de caracter sectorial y el pais se adhiri6 a convenios
intemacionales. Los medios de comunicaci6n asumieron una labor de denuncia y orientaci6n de la opinion
pudblica sobre los problemas ambientales y los partidos y lideres politicos empezaron a introducir en su
discurso y propuestas de gobiemo el tema ante el interes y preocupaci6n de la ciudadania.
En la d6cada de los 90, los problemas socio-ambientales se agudizaron en el pais tanto por los efectos de
las principales actividades productivas (petr6leo, camar6n, banano, flores, madera, industrias), como por la
acelerada urbanizaci6n del territorio y sus problemas asociados (manejo de desechos, ampliaci6n de la
frontera urbana, contaminaci6n de aire y agua) Se conjugaban, ademas, otros factores de importancia
como: (i) la escasa coordinaci6n entre las instituciones puiblicas con encargo sectorial ambiental; (ii) la
falta de unificaci6n de politicas ambientales; (iii) la escasa coordinaci6n en la formulaci6n y aplicaci6n de
las normas juridicas ambientales; (iv) la falta de control en el manejo de recursos, del uso del territorio y el
aumento de la contaminaci6n; (v) escasos recursos humanos y financieros en las instituciones a cargo del
tema; (vi) falta de capacitaci6n de los recursos humanos; (vii) los Gobiemos Seccionales (con pocas
excepciones) no introducian el tema en su gesti6n; y (vii) falta de participaci6n comunitaria en los procesos
de gesti6n ambiental.
La creaci6n en septiembre de 1993, de la Comisi6n Asesora Ambiental de la Presidencia de la Republica
(CAAM) con reporte directo al Presidente, abord6 los temas dentro de esta problematica ambiental y
situaci6n institucional y juridica. La CAAM fue el primer intento del Estado de crear una instituci6n que
oriente y proponga politicas y estrategias nacionales y promueva la participaci6n de los diferentes actores
publicos y privados en la gesti6n ambiental. La CAAM elabor6 mediante un proceso participativo, los
Principios Basicos para la Gesti6n Ambiental (1993), las Politicas Bdsicas Ambientales (1994) y el Plan
Ambiental Ecuatoriano (PAE)(1996), 6ste como instrumento operativo de los otros dos, buscaba implantar
un proceso y estrategia participativa de planificaci6n y acci6n hacia el desarrollo sustentable y la
efectividad de la gesti6n ambiental nacional y local. El PAE determin6 las acciones prioritarias que debian
realizarse: (i) racionalizaci6n del marco legal ambiental; (ii) fortalecimiento de las instituciones encargadas
- 31 -



de la gesti6n ambiental; y (iii) delegaci6n de responsabilidades ambientales a los Gobiernos Seccionales
(GS), comunidades y ONG's. El PAR tambien identific6 los problemas mas importantes, las areas
geogrificas prioritarias a ser atendidas y las actividades productivas de mayor impacto ambiental. El
PATRA fue disenado por la CAAM en el marco del PAE con el fin de crear un sistema apropiado de
gesti6n ambiental
El 4 de octubre de 1996 se cre6 el Ministerio del Ambiente (MA) reflejando la decisi6n del Gobiemo de
otorgar atenci6n al mas alto nivel politico a la gesti6n ambiental. El MA se constituy6 en la autoridad
nacional ambiental, rectora y coordinadora de las politicas, estrategias y normativas en todo el territorio
ecuatoriano, y de propiciar la participaci6n del sector piublico y privado en la gesti6n.
2.     Descripci6n del Proyecto PATRA
El 1 de agosto de 1996, el Gobiemo Ecuatoriano con un aporte de US$5 millones y el BIRF con un cr&dito
reembolsable de US$15 millones, subscribieron un Convenio de Prestamo para la ejecuci6n del "Proyecto
de Asistencia Tecnica para la Gesti6n Ambiental" (PATRA), por un periodo de 4 afnos, a ser ejecutado por
la CAAM ( y a su desaparici6n por el MA) a traves de una Unidad Coordinadora (UCP-PATRA)
El Proyecto se plante6 dos objetivos generales: (a) Apoyar el proceso para implementar una estrategia
de gesti6n ambiental nacional, especificamente a traves de: (i) fortalecer la capacidad de la CAAM
(posteriormente del MA) para realizar analisis de politica ambiental, y desarrollar y manejar programas
ambientales; (ii) fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n ambiental de tres ministerios claves: Ministerio de
Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda IDU VI), Ministerio de Industria, Comercio, Integraci6n y Pesca (MICIP)
y Ministerio de Energia y Minas (MEM) Todas estas actividades conformaban el Componente 1:
(b) Apoyar al Gobierno del Ecuador a construir una capacidad de gesti6n ambiental en las tres ireas
geograficas prioritarias identificadas en el PAE: Areas Urbanas, el Golfo de Guayaquil, y la
Amazonia. Con las siguientes lineas de acci6n: (i) establecer y fortalecer las capacidades de gesti6n
ambiental en areas urbanas seleccionadas y (ii) construir una capacidad institucional y llevar adelante
procesos participativos y analisis tecnicos necesarios para resolver dos de los mas serios problemas
ambientales del Ecuador, particularmente relacionados a la contaminaci6n del Golfo de Guayaquil y el area
de la Amazonia afectada por la exploraci6n y explotaci6n de petr6leo. El cumplimiento del objetivo se
planific6 ejecutarlo a traves de tres Componentes. Componente 2: Planificaci6n y Gesti6n Ambiental en la
Regi6n Amaz6nica Ecuatoriana. Componente 3: Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal o Local; y Componente
4: Informaci6n y Gesti6n Ambiental en el Golfo de Guayaquil o en el Litoral.
En marzo de 1999 se realiz6 un ajuste al proyecto luego de la revisi6n de medio periodo y en respuesta a
las nuevas condiciones institucionales, politicas, socio-econ6micas y ambientales que vivia el pais
(Ministerio del Ambiente, Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental, Sistema Descentralizado de Gesti6n Ambiental,
Estrategia Ambiental para el Desarrollo Sustentable del Ecuador) En este contexto se consider6 importante
focalizar y priorizar las actividades y las areas de atenci6n para lograr mayores impactos y beneficios. Se
dio especial atenci6n al MA para fortalecer su liderazgo y su calidad de autoridad ambiental y a los GS
para que asuman sus competencias ambientales descentralizadas. Se reestructuraron los componentes y se
disminuy6 en US$ 2,986 el monto del prestamo original, quedando en US$ 12,014 millones. Al
Componente 4 se integraron el Municipio de Guayaquil y el Consejo Provincial de Manabi (anteriormente
parte del Componente 3) y se inici6 el trabajo con 12 municipios de la bioregi6n del Golfo. El Componente
2, planificado originalmente para atender la Regi6n Amaz6nica, se concentr6 exclusivamente en el
Municipio de Shushufindi.
- 32-



A comienzos del 2000, con el fin de completar la ejecuci6n de las actividades prioritarias previstas en la
reprogramaci6n de 1999, el Gobiemo del Ecuador solicit6 al Banco Mundial la extensi6n de la fecha de
cierre del proyecto hasta diciembre del 2001. Se realiz6 una nueva reducci6n de actividades para obtener
resultados e impactos concretos en el fortalecimiento, consolidaci6n y sistematizaci6n de las capacidades
tecnicas del MA y de los GS en gesti6n ambiental. Se redujo en US$ 2 millones el monto del prestamo
original, quedando 6ste finalmente en US$ 10,014 millones. En este periodo adicional, los Componentes se
redujeron a tres dado que el Componente 2 habia concluido en septiembre del 2000. El Componente 1 se
centr6 en el fortalecimiento al MA y en el Componente 3 concluy6 el apoyo a los Municipios de Cuenca y
Quito.
3.     Situaci6n Ambiental en el Ecuador al Termino del Proyecto PATRA
El MA y el PATRA iniciaron su gesti6n y ejecuci6n en una de las peores crisis politicas y econ6micas del
Ecuador; sin embargo, a la finalizaci6n del proyecto hay avances importantes en el pais. En el ambito
institucional el MA estA consolidado orgAnicamente, con rentas propias y aportes fiscales, politicas
sectoriales definidas y es proponente y ejecutor de proyectos ambientales. En el campo juridico-politico el
PATRA aport6 a la elaboraci6n y promulgaci6n de la Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental (1999) que ratifica al MA
como la autoridad nacional rectora y coordinadora de la gesti6n y politicas ambientales; estableci6, por
primera vez en el pais, un marco general para ordenar la normativa ambiental y defini6 directrices e
instrumentos para hacer factible una ordenada gesti6n a trav6s de un sistema nacional descentralizado.
Tanto la Ley como la Estrategia Ambiental para el Desarrollo Sustentable del Ecuador (2000) (tambi6n
apoyada por el proyecto) incorporaron por primera vez y como una definici6n politica, el desarrollo
sustentable y la gesti6n ambiental en todos los anbitos del quehacer del pais.
En materia de EIA, el proyecto apoy6 la elaboraci6n de la propuesta de un Sistema linico de Manejo
Ambiental mediante un proceso consensuado de definici6n de reglas y procedimientos de EIA. Por primera
vez en el Ecuador se cre6 un instrumento nacional, umico y obligatorio (existia solo normnativa sectorial) y
que considera la descentralizaci6n de la administraci6n publica. Sin embargo, previo a la aplicaci6n del
mismo, el MA debera legalizarlo e iniciar negociaciones  para lograr las modificaciones y cambios
necesarios en los otros cuerpos legales y completar las diferentes politicas de manejo de los recursos
naturales. Otro de los resultados de la intervenci6n del PATRA, y relativos al tema, fue la creaci6n de
regimenes de EIA, para la aprobaci6n de determinadas obras, en el Consejo Provincial de Manabi y el
Municipio de Cuenca.
Si bien hay otras organizaciones nacionales e intemacionales que trabajan con los GS en el contexto de la
descentralizaci6n; sin embargo, la introducci6n de la tematica ambiental y de la participaci6n comunitaria
en los procesos de planificaci6n y gesti6n de estas instituciones, es un aporte importante del proyecto. El
PATRA apoy6 a 54 Gobiernos Seccionales, promocionando la creaci6n de comisiones ambientales y de
unidades administrativas de gesti6n y control ambiental. Capacit6 a los funcionarios y a la comunidad,
para incrementar el conocimiento y sensibilidad ante los problemas ambientales y foment6 la participaci6n
ciudadana en la soluci6n de 6stos.
El proyecto aport6 a los GS con herramientas para solucionar los problemas ambientales de su area de
influencia. A mas de la elaboraci6n de diagn6sticos ambientales, planes estrat6gicos cantonales, agendas
ambientales provinciales y ordenanzas de control de emisiones liquidas y gaseosas, protecci6n de riberas de
rfos, ordenamiento territorial, etc.; se desarrollaron capacidades para elaborar planes y proyectos, de corto
y mediano plazo, para el control de la contaminaci6n, para el manejo de desechos s6lidos, de los corredores
de los rios y para ordenar el territorio en actividades sustentables. Varios tienen, ademAs, presupuesto
especifico para programas ambientales y la operaci6n de las unidades de gesti6n. La ejecuci6n de los
- 33-



programas de control de la contaminaci6n ha tenido respuesta variable en el sector empresarial local que
han presentado planes de reducci6n de descargas contaminantes al aire y agua. Se aspira que los efectos de
disminuci6n de niveles de contaminaci6n se aprecien en mediano plazo. El 6nfasis en el manejo de desechos
s6lidos se dio al mejoramiento o instalaci6n de rellenos sanitarios controlados. Los efectos beneficiosos se
apreciaran a medida que terminen las adecuaciones.
El proyecto apoy6 con bases s6lidas para el fortalecimiento de la divulgaci6n de informaci6n ambiental y la
utilizaci6n de 6sta para mejorar la capacidad de planificaci6n, investigaci6n y monitoreo del MA con la
creaci6n de la pagina web y sobre todo del Sistema Nacional de Informnaci6n Ambiental (SNIA) El MA, sin
embargo, debera definir a la brevedad, estrategias para continuar y potenciar esta importante herramienta
de gesti6n, fortaleciendo la unidad encargada del Sistema, con el numero necesario de tecnicos y suficientes
recursos para su funcionamiento. Ademas, debera plantear convenios de colaboraci6n con otras
instituciones para garantizar la actualizaci6n permanente de la informaci6n.
El proyecto public6 varios documentos de divulgaci6n (Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental y Sistema Nacional de
Areas Protegidas); de capacitaci6n para el manejo de instrumentos de planificaci6n; elaboraci6n de EIA,
politicas y proyectos y otros temas ambientales (para los GS); informantica (funcionarios del MA);
educaci6n ambiental (Rio Portoviejo-Manabi, Educomunicaci6n Ambiental para Shushufindi); y
sistematizaci6n de experiencias de la asistencia tecnica a los GS con el fin de comprenderlas y extraer
aprendizajes y retroalimentaci6n desde la prictica.
El MA desde su creaci6n en 1996, ( y con el aporte del PATRA) ha fortalecido su calidad de ente rector y
coordinador con los otros organismos piiblicos y privados. Tiene una Estructura Organica definida y un
presupuesto integrado (el MA se form6 con varias entidades y dependencias del Estado como la CAAM e
INEFAN) Cuenta con instrumentos legales (Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental y otros Reglamentos) y politicas
ambientales (Estrategias de Desarrollo Sustentable) y mayor reconocimiento de la sociedad civil y medios
de comunicaci6n. Ademas, se destaca entre las otras instituciones del Estado por propiciar
permanentemente, en los diferentes procesos a su cargo, la participaci6n y el consenso ciudadano y de los
organismos puiblicos y privados.
El MA, con diversos apoyos, logr6 importantes avances tanto en la promulgaci6n de normas referentes a
manejo forestal (5), productos quimicos peligrosos (1), y Galapagos (2); como en la elaboraci6n de 4
Estrategias sobre: biodiversidad, manejo forestal, calidad ambiental y Galapagos; y un informe de la
situaci6n de la biodiversidad en el pais al aiio 2000. Tambi6n elabor6 dos importantes propuestas de ley
(biodiversidad, forestal) aunque todavia en proceso de discusi6n y aprobaci6n.
A continuaci6n se presentan una serie de indicadores que permiten establecer los logros e impactos del
proyecto y los cambios en la gesti6n ambiental del Ecuador en los ultimos cinco afnos. Es importante
senalar que 6stos no son los mismos que fueron planteados en el disenio del PATRA, dado que no resultaron
representativos de la realidad de ejecuci6n del proyecto.
- 34 -



CUADRO I
CGESTSNABIENTAL ENEL ECUADOR
Estado antes del Proyecto - 1996                             Al Finalizar el Proyecto - 2001
Generado per el Proyecto      I           Generado por Otros
Indicadores de Fortalecimiento de la Capacidadpara Desarrollar, Analizar e Implementar Polfticas
.__ _ _ _ _   Ambientales
* Existencia de la CAAM adscrita a la   * MA operando con politicas sectoriales  * Absorcion de la CAAM y otras
Presidencia de la Reptublica            definidas.                             instituciones por parte del MA
* Creacion del Ministerio Del Ambiente  *     12 Comisiones Ambientales en los  * MA integrado, estructurado, rector y
* Organizaciones no gubernamentales     Concejos/Consejos.                     coordinador nacional de la gesti6n ambienta
proponiendo y ejecutando proyectos       *    El MA proponey ejecuta proyectos
ambientales                             ambientales.
* Normativas ambientales sectoriales.   * Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental promulgada  * Constituci6n Politica incluye disposiciones
* Ausencia depoliticas ambientales      *    Estrategia Nacionalpara el Desarrollo relativas al tema ambiental.
nacionales, provincialesy locales.      Sustentable del Ecuador publicada      * 4 Estrategiaspublicadas: biodiversidad,
*  Propuesta de un Sistema (Inico de   manejoforestal, gestion ambientaly
Manejo Ambiental (EIA)                 Galapagos.
*     Sistema Nacional de Informacion  * Informe sobre el estado de la biodiversidad
ambiental                              al afio 2000.
*     Ley de gesti6n obliga a la
descentralizacion de la actividad ambientaly
la participaci6n ciudadana en las decisiones.
*     Centro Ecuatoriano de Produccion
mas Limpia (participan Cdmaras de la
Producci6n, MA y otros)
Indicadores de Fortalecimiento de la Capacidad de Manejo Amblental
* Pocas instituciones estatales, provinciales  *  Apoyo del Proyecto al Fortalecimiento  * 42 Convenios de delegacion defunciones
y locales con unidades ambientales     del MA.                                del MA a los GS..
*     54 Gobiernos Seccionales con     . Unidades ambientales, Comisiones
instancias administrativas de gesti6n y  Ambientales en otros GS (sin datos precisos)
control ambiental
* Escasas ordenanzas localesyprovinciales *  Muchas ordenanzas de gesti6n y   * Ordenanzas de gestion y control ambiental
de control de la contaminaci6n.        control ambiental expedidas. en        expedidas, en concordancia con la Ley de
concordancia con la Ley de Gesti6n     Gesti6n Ambientaly los procesos de
Ambiental y los procesos de            descentralizaci6n y participacion
descentralizaci6n y participaci6n      comunitaria..
comunitaria.
* Gesti6n ambiental estataly seccional con  *  El MA canaliza donaciones      * Mayor disponibilidad de redursos tecnicos
insuficientes recursos para la gesti6n  internacionales para programas ambientales: yfznancieros a nivel del Estado.
ambiental.                             en ejecuci6n USS 117 millones; en gestihn  * Personal MA: 520 personas
* Personal MA: 80 personas. Presupuesto  USS 72 millones                      Presupuesto MA para e 2002: US$ 8
US$ 2,5 Millones.                                                             Millones (autogesti6n y recursosfiscales)
* Personal CAAM: lOpersonas Presupuesto                                       * Se mantiene enfunciones la Subsecretaria
Estatal US$ 2,9 millones                                                      de Proteccion Ambiental del MEM.
* Personal Subsecretarfa de Protecci6n
Ambiente (MEM) l2funcionarios
Presupuesto US$ 4 millones(Aprox)
* Pocos instrumentos de Gestihn ambiental  *  Planes de Gestion ambiental Urbanos  * Planes de Gestion amnbiental Urbanos
Locales.                               Locales.
*     Agendas Provinciales             * Agendas Provinciales
*     Normativas                       * Normativas
*     Regimenes locales de ELI         * Regimenes locales de ELA
* Manejo ambiental limitado en campos  *     Licencia ambiental como requisito  * Manejo ambiental obligatorio en actividad
petroleros y concesiones mineras       para toda obra putblicay privada       petrolera, mineray electrica. Planes de
* Obra Pablica sin requerimientos      *     Agendas Provinciales; Diagndsticos  evaluaci6n, contingencia y manejo.
ambientales                            municipales y provinciales; Planes de
* Poca capacitacidn ambiental a        Gesti6n Ambiental Urbanos Locales; antilisis
funcionarios estatales y de los GS.    de propuestas de leyesy reglamentos con
instancias de participacidn ciudadana.
- 35 -



I                                      I
Indicadores de FortaJecimiento de la Capacidadpara Resolver los Problem as Locales y Regionakes de
Contaminacion
* Proceso de descentralizacitn y
desconcentraci6n de la gestion ambiental
* Estudios de Impacto Ambiental estatales  *  Regimenes locales de EIA       * Regimenes locales de ELI
sectoriales. 
* Poco personal en GS a cargo de       *    Mayor personal en los GS (mayor  * Mayor personal en los GS (mayor numero
Ambiente (sin datos precisos)          niumero de unidades ambientaks) (Sin datos  de unidades ambientales) (Sin datosprecisas)
* Escaso presupuesto en los GS especifaco  precisos)                         * A/gunos GS tienen presupuesto especifico
para tema ambiental (sin datosprecisos)  *  A1gunos GS denen presupuesso     para sus unidades administrativas
especifico para sus unidades administrativas  ambientales
ambientales
* Pocos instrumentos de Gesti6n ambiental  *  Participacion ciudadana        * Participaci6n ciudadana
*    Proyectos de manejo ambiental    * Proyectos de manejo ambiental
* Ausencia de Diagn6sticos ambientales  *   Los GS particpoantes en la ejecuci6n  * Otros GS cuentan con caracterizaci6n
delproyecto cuentan con caracterizaci6n  ambiental de sus dreas y recursos;
ambiental desus dreasy recursos;      diagn6sticos sobre problemas; ubiaci6n y
diagn6sticos sobre problemas; ubicaci6n y  detecci6n de los mismos.
detecci6n de los mismos.
. Poco inter&s del sector industrial en el  *  ParticipaciOn ciudadana formal en las * 50 empresas realizan tratamiento de
tema                                   Comisiones de Gesti6n Ambiental de varios  residuos especialmente qutmicos. reciclajey
* Ningun manejo de desechospeligrosos  GS                                    han incluido mgtodos de produccaln mds
hospitalarios                                                                limpia (apoyo de la COSUDE/Fundaci6n
Natura.
* 40% de los hospitales del pais realizan
manejo diferenciado de desechos
_________________________  (COSUDFIFundaci6n Natura)
Fuente: PATRA
4.       Los Componentes y sus Resultados.
Componente 1
4.1.     Formulaci6n de Politicas y Fortalecimiento Institucional
4.1.1.   Fortalecimiento del Ministerio del Ambiente.
El MA inici6 su gesti6n sin una estructura y planificaci6n definida y el proyecto, que empez6 su ejecuci6n
al mismo tiempo, colabor6 en su proceso de consolidaci6n interna (al MA se integraron varias
dependencias estatales sectoriales) proveyendole equipamiento y personal tecnico asesor para organizar su
estructura y crear unidades operativas para: manejo de proyectos, asuntos internacionales, cambio
cliniatico y gesti6n local. Apoy6 a la formulaci6n y ejecuci6n de normativas y politicas nacionales y
sectoriales, a: mejorar los procedimientos de monitoreo, sanci6n, uso y custodia del mnanglar, y en procesos
de planificaci6n en el contexto del desarrollo sustentable, la descentralizaci6n y desconcentraci6n.
El apoyo del proyecto a la estructuraci6n de la Direcci6n de Asuntos Internacionales del MA, permiti6 que
esta dependencia desarrolle herramientas de gesti6n con resultados significativos segun se aprecia en el
siguiente cuadro.
- 36-



CUADRO 2
CONTR1BUCIONDEAGENCUS BILATERALES YMULTILATERALES PARA PROYECTOSAMBIENTALES AL MA 0
CONA VAL DEL MINISTERIO
1996-2001
PROYECTOSENEJECUCIONOAPROBADOS
FUENTE                       NOREEMBOLSABLE              REEMBOLSABLE
Multilateral                 US$38.8 millones            US$ 22 millones'
Bilateral                    US$ 60 millones              _
TOTAL USS 117.1 mUlones
Proyectos en Gesti6n
Fuente                       No Reembolsable             Reembolsable
Multilateral                 US$ 43,3 millones            US$ 10 millones
Bilateral                    USS 18,8 millones
TOTAL: USS 72,1 millones     _                         .
Fuente: MA
* Incluye Proyecto Petramaz concluido en el 2000
t Incluye el PATRA
4.1.2. Desarrollo Legislativo
La promulgaci6n de la Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental en 1999, (proceso apoyado por el PATRA) confirm6 al
MA como la autoridad nacional ambiental y estableci6 un marco general para ordenar la normativa
ambiental dentro de los principios del desarrollo sustentable. La Ley estableci6: (i) una definici6n de
Amnbitos y principios de la gesti6n ambiental; (ii) Sistema Descentralizado de Gesti6n Ambiental; (iii)
instrumentos de gesti6n: inclusi6n en la planificaci6n nacional y seccional el uso sustentable de los
recursos; obligatoriedad de los EIA y licencias ambientales; mecanismos de participaci6n social;
capacitaci6n y difusi6n; e instrumentos de aplicaci6n de normas ambientales; (iv) financiamiento para
programas de control y preservaci6n ambiental; (v) informaci6n y vigilancia ambiental; y (vi) protecci6n
de los derechos ambientales individuales y colectivos
El proyecto apoy6 tambien a la expedici6n de normas e instructivos para la protecci6n del manglar; la
elaboraci6n de propuestas de reglamentos para instrumentar la aplicaci6n de la Ley, y de otros temas de
interes de la instituci6n (Galapagos, Calidad Ambiental, pago de servicios para uso del agua) que esperan
la aprobaci6n del Presidente de la Repuiblica. El MA, con apoyo del PATRA, elabor6 y public6 la
Estrategia Ambiental para el Desarrollo Sustentable del Ecuador(2000) que establece una politica de
Estado que trasciende la gesti6n de una sola adniinistraci6n y postula, desde la gesti6n ambiental, un
horizonte de mediano y largo plazo para el desarrollo sustentable del pais, concretando propuestas de
programas que guien la acci6n del MA.
4.1.3.  Sistema ('nicodeManejoAmbiental (SUMA):
Al finalizar el proyecto, el MA cuenta con una propuesta consensuada de un Sistema tnico de Manejo
Ambiental, que debera ser aprobado legalmente, como un instrumento efectivo de gesti6n ambiental que
establece reglas y procedimientos para los EIA. Desde los afnos 70 existen en el pais normativas sectoriales
relativas a los EIA pero su aplicaci6n y efectividad fue muy baja y no pas6 de ser un mero requisito de
aprobaci6n de proyectos. Con esta propuesta se crea un sistema nacional, inico, obligatorio, que determina
tanto las responsabilidades especificas del MA como coordinador, como los roles de las otras instituciones
involucradas y la participaci6n ciudadana. Al SUMA estan sujetas todas las actividades nacionales,
piublicas y privadas, en el marco de la desconcentraci6n y descentralizaci6n de la administraci6n puiblica
segun lo establece la Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental.   Se elabor6   un sistema computarizado para
- 37-



categorizaci6n, seguimiento y control de los EIA y un Plan de Difusi6n a fin de que el MA capacite y
promueva la participaci6n ciudadana en el proceso.
4.1.4. Capacitacion
El PATRA realiz6 una serie de talleres para el sector publico y privado, tanto a nivel nacional como
provincial y local, destacandose los promovidos para los GS. La capacitaci6n a los funcionarios piublicos,
especialmente del MA, en cambio, no logr6 los resultados esperados principalmente por falta de
planificaci6n y estrategia a largo plazo y por la escasa coordinaci6n con la instituci6n en el desarrollo del
componente. En la uiltima etapa del proyecto se elabor6 un Plan Nacional de Capacitaci6n Ambiental que
establece las prioridades de capacitaci6n de las instituciones que forman parte del Sistema Nacional
Descentralizado de Gesti6n Ambiental y el fortalecimiento de las capacidades del pais para la ejecuci6n de
las politicas ambientales. Esta importante propuesta debera, sin embargo, ser implementada por el MA.
A los funcionarios y dirigentes comunitarios de los GS se les imparti6 una serie de cursos y talleres  en
temas de: planificaci6n, gesti6n ambiental y de proyectos; participaci6n comunitaria, evaluaci6n de
impactos ambientales, y manejo de recursos hidricos y desechos s6lidos. Se realizaron, ademas, cursos
prActicos de manejo sustentable de recursos dirigidos a miembros de las comunidades, se destaca el caso de
lideres indigenas de Shushufindi. Adicionalmente, el proyecto financi6 becas de estudio, en base de
convenios con diversas universidades para diplomado, postgrado y cursos cortos, tanto para funcionarios
del MA como de los GS en temas de gesti6n local y manejo de SIG entre otros.
CUADRO 3
CAPACITACIONEN GESTIONAMBIENTAL LOCAL
TEMASDE CAPACITACION                              CANTIDAD DEEVENTOS
Diagndstico Ambiental Participativo                                    55
Foro Cantonaly Amazdnicos                                              13
Politicas Ambientales, Planes y Agendas Ambientales                    72
Manejo de Sistemas Operativosy SMG                                     52
Manejo de Desechos sdlidos, rellenos sanitarios, reciclaje             95
Manejo de Aguas, Cuencas Hidrogrtficas, Tratamiento de Aguas.          87
Educacidny Capacitacion Ambientaly (diversos temas)                    229
Plan ificaci6n Ambiental, Gesti6n de Proyectos                         25
EIA (LocalyNacional)                                                   15
Normativa Ambiental                                                    49
Manejo de Recursos(suelo, paramos, etc.). agropecuarios                49
Ordenamiento territorial                                                6
Contaminacidn (pesticidas, etc.)                                       11
Otros temas                                                            43
Fuente: PA TRA
4.1.5. Comunicacion y Concientizaci6n ambiental:
Este componente no logr6 todos los resultados esperados. Con apoyo del PATRA se prepar6 en 1999 una
Estrategia de Comunicaci6n para posicionar al MA como ente rector pero no pudo ser ejecutada en su
momento. En los uiltimos meses del proyecto se actualiz6 dicha Estrategia y se ejecutaron dos campafias de
posicionamiento del MA y de uso sustentable de los recursos naturales a traves de la radio (20 cunias) y la
televisi6n (3 spots) Se cumplieron, ademas, otras actividades de divulgaci6n e informaci6n ambiental a
traves de la radio (convenio con 10 radios), prensa escrita (publicaci6n de Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental y del
Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales) y televisi6n (promoci6n de la pagina Web) Se publicaron
documentos educativos, de capacitaci6n, afiches, folletos y la  sistematizaci6n de 8 experiencias que
aportan aprendizaje sobre la .implementaci6n de la gesti6n local y 4 proyectos productos de esta: pantanos
- 38 -



artificiales en Shushufindi, manejo de los rios Portoviejo y Tomebamba, y educaci6n ambiental en
Portoviejo.
El PATRA apoy6 el diseino e implementaci6n de la pagina web del MA, constituyendose en una
herramienta de informaci6n y difusi6n de las politicas, normativas, y proyectos ambientales, como tambien
de promoci6n de la participaci6n ciudadana mediante la divulgaci6n y recepci6n de comentarios y
observaciones sobre diversos temas. Esta pagina tiene un promedio de 10.000 consultas diarias y se puede
ingresar ademas, a traves de cinco portales comerciales.
CUADRO 4-
PRODUCTOS COMUNICACIONALES
TEMllfAS                                    CANTIDAD DE PUBLICA CIONES
Normativa Ambiental                                                                6
Politicas Ambientales                                                              5
Fortalecimiento Gesti6n Local                                                      12
Educacion y Capacitaci6n Ambiental                        __
Cufias y Programas de Radio                                                        42
Videosy Spots de Promoci6n de la Gesti6n Ambiental                                 17
Afiches, Tripticos, Folletos                                                       20
Otro Material Tecnico y de Difusi6n                                                6
Fuente: PATRA
4.1.6. Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental (SNIA)
Uno de los logros del proyecto fue el disefno del SNIA, que otorga al MA de una importante herramienta de
gesti6n, informaci6n y comunicaci6n. A algunos de los subsistemas se puede acceder a traves del Internet;
la informaci6n de indicadores de calidad de aire estA en conexi6n con algunos municipios; y otros
subsistemas son de uso interno exclusivo del MA. Otro de los elementos integrados del SNIA es la base de
datos espacial (SIG) constituida por un mapa base ambiental con 35 coberturas que permite incluir otras,
respetando los estAndares establecidos. Esto se logr6 con la cooperaci6n de organizaciones piublicas y
privadas que aportaron con su informaci6n. Los subsistemas y m6dulos del SNIA se desarrollaron con la
participaci6n permanente de los funcionarios usuarios del MA, pero sera necesario que la instituci6n
plantee convenios de colaboraci6n       con otras     instituciones para garantizar la actualizaci6n      de la
informaci6n y que fortalezca tecnica y financieramente la oficina a cargo, para potencializar esta
herramienta.
CUADRO 5
SISTEMA NACIONAL
.________________       DEINFORMACIONAMBIENTAL
SISTEMAS DE GESTION                                OBJETIVO                              USUARIOS
Subsistema de Apoyo a gestidn y control de la Catastro industrial; Produccidn mds Limpia;  Direccidn de Calidad Ambiental del MA
CalidadAmbiental                     Productos Quimicos Peligrosos; ELI; Desechos
Peligrosos.                          Direccion Calidad Ambientaly Municipios
CalidaddelAire
Subsistema de Proyectos              Evaluaci6n. monitoreo, consecuci6n defondos Direcciones de Planificaci6n, Asuntos
de proyectos ambientales.            Internaclonales, Areas Tkcnicas.
Subsistema de Areas Naturales        Gesti6n del Sistema Nacional de Areas  Direcci6n de Areas Protegida Distritos
Protegfdas                           Regionales, Comunidad a traves del Internet.
Subsistema Biblioteca Ambiental      Informaci6n bibliogreftca del MA e   Todo el MA y la comunidad a traves del
Instituciones Relacionadas.          Internet.
Subsistema Documental                Controlyflujo de documentos           Todo el MA
Subsistema Informacion ambiental del Litoral Incluye informaci6n sobre humedales,  Todo el MA
(SIAL)                               manglares, biodiversidad marina y costera,
cuencas hidrogref cas, calidad ambiental y
cambio climdtico.       _
Sistema de Informacidn Geogr4flco (SIG)  Mapa base 1:250.000 del 100% de territorio;  Todo elMA
- 39 -



mapa 1:50.000 del 70% del territorio. 35
coberhras.
Fuente: PA TRA
4.1.7 Fortalecimiento al MIDUVI, MEM, y MICIP.
Respecto al MIDUVI, MEM y MICIP, el proyecto no pudo cumplir con las actividades y capacitaci6n
programadas. Los continuos cambios de gobierno y por tanto de funcionarios de todos los niveles, impidi6
que estas instituciones mnantuvieran el mismo interes por el tema, dificultando las relaciones de
coordinaci6n, planificaci6n y ejecuci6n de actividades.
Con el MIDUVI se prepar6 solamente una normativa para disenar sistemas de aseo urbano; con el MICIP
un inventario industrial y un Foro de Industrias y Ambiente cuyo resultado mis importante fue la creaci6n
del Centro Ecuatoriano de Producci6n mias Limpia; y con el MEM se introdujeron politicas
socio-ambientales y de consulta y participaci6n ciudadana en el sector petrolero, a mAs de la elaboraci6n de
guias ambientales para el control de las operaciones hidrocarburiferas.
Componentes 2 - 3- 4
4.2. Gesti6n Ambiental Local
Otro de los objetivos del PATRA fue el fortalecimiento de las capacidades tecnicas y politicas de los GS
como instancias de gobierno provincial y cantonal debido al importante rol que deben desempefnar en la
gesti6n ambiental local. Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, esta actividad adquiri6 mayor relevancia pues
en la Constituci6n Politica de 1998 y en la Ley de Descentralizaci6n del Estado y Participaci6n Social
(1997) se incluy6 la obligaci6n del Estado de transferir a los GS fuhciones, atribuciones y
responsabilidades en el control, preservaci6n y defensa del ambiente.
El PATRA prest6 asistencia t6cnica a 2 municipios grandes ( impacto en el 55% de la poblaci6n urbana),
37 medianos y pequefios (de un total de 215, 200/o de la poblaci6n urbana) y 15 (de un total de 22)
Consejos Provinciales de la Sierra, Costa y Amazonia. Las actividades estaban dirigidas a desarrollar un
sistema descentralizado de gesti6n ambiental a ser replicado en otros GS, y se concentr6 en promover la
creaci6n y fortalecimiento de Unidades de Gesti6n Ambiental al interior de las instituciones y de
Comisiones de Gesti6n Ambiental con participaci6n ciudadana y de otras organizaciones. La asistencia
tecnica incluy6: capacitaci6n y entrega de equipamiento basico; elaboraci6n de instrumentos juridicos
(ordenanzas); diagn6sticos ambientales e institucionales, planes amnbientales; agendas provinciales y
propuestas de proyectos para solucionar problemas de manejo de desechos s6lidos y cuencas hidricas. Se
incentiv6 el trabajo coordinado con las otras dependencias internas de los GS y en conjunto con otras
instituciones para potenciar acciones y soluciones ambientales a problemas comunes. Las actividades se
realizaron conjuntamente con los funcionarios como elemento de aprendizaje, transferencia y desarrollo de
habilidades. La asistencia t6cnica local puso enfasis en la promoci6n de la participaci6n comunitaria y en
procesos de difusi6n y educaci6n.
Si bien la intervenci6n del proyecto en los GS tuvo diferencias de intensidad y tiempo, y el progreso y
consolidaci6n de la experiencia estuvo en funci6n del apoyo politico, las fortalezas y capacidades tecnicas
tanto de cada institucion como de sus funcionarios; el PATRA inici6 un proceso que ha introducido un
cambio cultural, de practicas y habilidades hacia una gesti6n ambiental descentmalizada a ser replicada en
otros GS. En el caso de los municipios de Quito y Guayaquil, se planificaron actividades puntuales de
-40-



fortalecimiento y si bien no se llegaron a cumplir todas por problemas de coordinaci6n y planificaci6n con
los funcionarios, hubo aportes importantes por parte del proyecto: equipos de laboratorio para monitoreo
de calidad de aire para los dos municipios; educaci6n ambiental ciudadana y propuestas de politicas y
ordenanzas (Guayaquil), y un plan de residuos t6xicos (Quito).
CUADRO 6
LOGROSDE LA GESTiONEN s4 GOBiERNOSSECCiONALES
DVDICADORES                                     CANTIDADES
Unidades de Gestion Ambiental (o gue cumplen lasfunciones)            50
Comisiones Ambientales de los Concejos Municipales y Consejos         12
Provinciales
Comisiones de Gestion Ambiental                                       22
Agendas Ambientales Provinciales                                       8
Planes de Manejo Ambiental Cantonal o Planes de Desarrollo con        12
Componente Ambiental
Planes de Manejo de Corredores de Rios                                 5
Planes de Ordenamiento Territorial                                     6
Planes de Manejo de Desechos Solidos                                  40
Ordenanzas promulgadas o en aprobacidn relativas a gesti6n ambiente   80 (aprox.)
(iiluencia del PATRA)
Fuente: PA TRA
El Componente 2: Planificaci6n y Gesti6n Ambiental en la Regi6n Amaz6nica, incluia originalmente
actividades (entre otras) de planificaci6n regional y evaluaci6n de los problemas ambientales y
socio-econ6micos de la regi6n nororiental y su problematica de contaminaci6n. Sin embargo, ninguna de
estas fueron ejecutadas tomando en cuenta la presencia en el area de otros organismos y proyectos que
tenian como zona de intervenci6n el eje petrolero y la tematica de hidrocarburos y sus impactos. Con estas
consideraciones el proyecto centr6 el trabajo en el fortalecimiento del Municipio de Shushufindi,
proporcionando apoyo para la formulaci6n del Plan Cantonal de Gesti6n Ambiental, creaci6n de la
Comisi6n de Gesti6n Ambiental y Unidad de Gesti6n Ambiental, con procesos de capacitaci6n a las
personas involucradas en cada caso; apoyo para disefno y construcci6n del alcantarillado de Shushufindi
(dentral y de pantanos artificiales para tratamiento de las aguas servidas urbanas; dotaci6n de un
laboratorio de analisis de la calidad de las aguas, y un consistente programa de educaci6n comunitaria
participativa. Los beneficios han sido evidentes a lo largo de la ejecuci6n de las actividades, por el inter6s
de actores sociales en todo el proceso de planificaci6n e intervenci6n en la CGAS y consiguientes
decisiones.
Componente 4
4.3. Informaci6n y Gesti6n Ambiental en el Golfo de Guayaquil.
Este componente buscaba afrontar los principales problemas ambientales del Golfo de Guayaquil
relacionados a la contaminaci6n hidrica por las actividades productivas. Durante los primeros afnos del
proyecto, tuvo pocos resultados y muy puntuales ( propuesta de normativa sobre pesticidas, inventario de
proyectos ambientales, algunos estudios sobre la biodiversidad del Golfo, etc.) tanto por dificultades
operativas, como de coordinaci6n con las diferentes instituciones puiblicas y privadas contrapartes y por
falta de una planificaci6n apropiada para el desarrollo de las actividades del componente.  En la
reprogramaci6n de 1999, se opt6 por priorizar el fortalecimiento de la gesti6n ambiental descentralizada a
trav6s de los GS de la zona, anteriormente descrita, y al fortalecimiento de la Subsecretaria del MA en
Guayaquil, en actividades relacionadas al uso y manejo del manglar (normativa, mapas georeferenciados,
capacitaci6n), y creaci6n de un subsistema de informaci6n ambiental del Litoral.
-41 -



5.     Factores que Influyeron en la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto y Lecciones Aprendidas
* Priorizar el desarrollo sustentablle con 6nfasis en la gesti6n ambiental es un proceso a largo plazo
que requiere de decisi6n politica y creaci6n de conciencia que genere cambios inistitucionales y
culturales. Alcanzar los niveles deseables requiere de acciones de capacitaci6n en los ambitos politico,
econ6mico y social. Un proyecto como el PATRA contribuye a sentar las bases del cambio pero por si
solo no puede modificar todas las estructuras y solucionar todos los problemas al mismo tiempo y en
un corto periodo.
* Los cambios de Gobiemo (4); Ministros (6); Coordinadores de Proyecto (5), de Componentes y
tecnicos; Gerentes de Proyecto del Banco Mundial (3) y de funcionarios de los organismos estatales de
contraparte, con la consecuente revisi6n de politicas y prioridades, afectaron la continuidad, el flujo de
informaci6n y el desempefno de los Componentes. Si bien las variaciones por factores politicos estAn
fuera del control de un proyecto, estos deben ser evaluados oportunamente para disminuir los impactos
y adoptar nuevas estrategias de ejecuci6n. Se debe, ademas, minimizar el reemplazo de personal
directamente relacionado al proyecto para no afectar la continuidad.
*  El proyecto fue diseniado para ser implementado bajo un tipo de institucionalidad: la CAAM  y fue
ejecutado por el MA recien creado, sin estructura, planificaci6n, estrategia general y prioridades claras.
Consecuentemente, y sobretodo en los primeros aiios, la UCP actu6 independientemente. Hubo poca
integraci6n y coordinaci6n con los funcionarios del MA y la UCP fue identificada por las contrapartes
como la agencia implementadora.
*  El proyecto fue disenado en funci6n de las lineas de acci6n generales definidas en el PAE mAs que
a una definici6n de los problemas concretos que debian resolverse. Estuvo dirigido a crear las
condiciones institucionales que el pais requeria para poner en marcha el PAE, priorizado la
elaboraci6n de propuestas de politicas y normativas y no a la ejecuci6n de proyectos que remedien
problemas determinados. Por tanto se tendi6 a evaluar esta dimensi6n de fortalecimiento institucional
mas que la soluci6n de los problemas.
* Falt6 apoyo politico y t6cnico de algunas autoridades y contrapartes debido a la poca comprensi6n
de los problemas ambientales y los alcances del desarrollo sustentable, y por la permanente defensa de
sus anmbitos de competencia. La escasez de profesionales en las contrapartes con interes y conocedores
del tema, dificult6 la planificaci6n y coordinaci6n de las actividades. La gesti6n ambiental se basa en la
construcci6n colectiva y en un compromiso a largo plazo, es un esfuerzo sistematico de coordinaci6n,
participaci6n y concertaci6n entre los actores involucrados que no se logr6 en todos los casos. Fue
necesario un mayor acercamiento para perseguir un objetivo comun.
*  El proyecto fue muy ambicioso en su disenlo, poco enfocado, disperso y no siempre de acuerdo con
las capacidades de las contrapartes y la futura sustentabilidad. Al finalizar el PATRA, no esta
garantizada la continuidad de algunos procesos tanto en el MA como en los GS. Un proyecto que crea
nuevas actividades y procedimientos operacionales debe considerar en el diseflo la sustentabilidad
financiera y operativa para que las actividades iniciadas continuien a su finalizaci6n.
* Falt6 una planificaci6n detallada del proyecto en general y de los componentes, especialnente en el
disefio original; los indicadores de desempenlo no fueron bien establecidos, como tampoco hubo un
monitoreo y evaluaci6n rigurosa de las actividades por parte de la UCP-PATRA, el MA y el Banco
Mundial, especialmente en los primeros afios de ejecuci6n.
*  En los primeros anios del proyecto, el seguimiento, control y acompaniamiento del Banco Mundial
no fue adecuado lo que afect6 al desempefio del plan de acci6n. En los afios siguientes para evitar
retraso de las actividades fue necesario precisar las normas aplicables a la contrataci6n de consultores
y adquisici6n de bienes. Una vez acordadas estas e implementado un sistema de comunicaci6n directa e
inmediata entre el UCP-PATRA y el Banco, las relaciones fueron mAs fluidas y constructivas.
-42 -



6.     Conclusiones
El proyecto fue un elemento importante de apoyo al fortalecimiento de la institucionalidad y capacidad de
gesti6n ambiental del recien creado MA. El pais cuenta con una legislaci6n marco, politicas e instrumentos
de gesti6n, permitiendole consolidar su calidad de ente rector nacional. El PATRA aport6 con una cantidad
significativa de equipamiento, recursos financieros y asesoria tecnica indispensables para la estructuraci6n,
funcionamiento y consolidaci6n de esta nueva Cartera de Estado. Fue importante el aporte a la creaci6n de
nuevas unidades en su estructura para enfrentar asuntos ambientales nacionales e intemacionales, actuales
y futuros y no considerados anteriormente en el pais.
Una de las principales actividades del PATRA fue el fortalecimiento de los GS en el contexto del mandato
Constitucional que obliga al Estado a la descentralizaci6n de las competencias, y a su instrumentaci6n en
el Sistema Descentralizado de Gesti6n Ambiental (establecido en la Ley de Gesti6n Ambiental) El
proyecto inici6 y desarroll6 una fase inicial del proceso de descentralizaci6n introduciendo la gesti6n
ambiental, manejo sustentable de recursos y participaci6n comunitaria en la planificaci6n de estas
entidades, dandole al MA herramientas valiosas para continuar las actividades. A corto y mediano plazo,
una de las principales acciones de esta instituci6n seri la de afianzar el fortalecimiento de los GS
(expectativa expresada por estas entidades) y el proceso ordenado de descentralizaci6n y participaci6n
ciudadana. El proyecto busc6 con esta intervenci6n crear un modelo replicable en otros GS y se
sistematizaron y difundieron algunas de las experiencias como un aprendizaje sobre la implementacion de
la gesti6n local.
El MA debera consolidar la implementaci6n de dos importantes instrumentos de gesti6n aportados por el
proyecto: el SNIA que le permitira mejorar la producci6n y el intercambio de la informaci6n, como la
investigaci6n, planificaci6n, monitoreo y toma de decisiones, y el SUMA como instrumento de politica y
gesti6n ambiental sustentable que reglamenta y define los procedimientos de los EIA.
-43 -



Additional Annex 9. Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Environment
Director of the National
Galaagos Paik
Judicial Advisory 
Subsecretary of
Organizational Development
Su          Of           use,        yof Coastal   i   Subseltaryof     i
| Natal Capital |Environmental Affairs              Environmental Quality
Biodiversity    National Forest                   Pollution   _
and Protocted       Director                     Control and       Environmental
Areas                                         Prevention        Managernt
Direomr                                          Director          Director
Esmeialdas               Caihi-Imbabua                  Sucnubios-Orelana
MaN                      PicIiincIa                    Napo-Pata
Guayas-Los Rios-EI Oro   Cowpaxi-Tunmahua ini    Bolivar LpjaZamoma Chfie
Aay-Caar-Morona Satiago
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






81;             80              79v  t~4         78-             777
ESMERALDASJ.C                                           L   M  I
P A C I F I C              \ESMERAA         /    CAoCHI
O C E A N           -w=Zo                                                       So,
LooAgri. L
gHINCH>Cor.mS,.:~_                                                P S - <o FrpoeCrn
'         /       _J-4_   >  SnnbDoming0 l.lyW7  *   Arr          T  ZShus,hufind  lS
i,; = 9.                                6d Nj  A  P  0 ,
M. GCu I f o l   . S   A Z U NY; , ~c >  %  E Conon DOo
/ -  ,r  -  >,J  XIGU>6SeX/  XENIROMETA 2*
2l    GUlAql       U /   /    /   ;al A78 (Y                                      MNGEETRJC
NA            -/        t
s.-  MORONA-~ ~ ~~~NTRATONLBONARE
C    A  R         So A2 N 2X/ USM T I A NA C G R
o.  G                   J A ZE7U ADO RERNAPR
K 7 L5Vg PACiFiC:OMCEAN T_ ERS
G     I yaui                                    0,                               ENIRONME ILASNTALCU
H0  25  0    75 IOC                                                       PROJECT 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GALPG5-.f ISASLANDSI ,
8l~~~~~~~   80                                       90~~~~~0             IPO T
_____________________________________________________i_. ', _ :SA      -
z   ocrelvacroL suL Loesndal-es  D7 LP{;lD[. D1 ?V an =orrenl o  a  ISA SAIIZA M R}A<5   t   QPORTS 
~ Ejl o         D              . K!tOETEEf   I        -  s  - -- ---A-7









IMAGIiNG
I   Report No.:         24360
Type:      ICR



