Page  1
July 26 , 1999
Her Excellency 
Ana Lucia Armijos Hidalgo 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington  
Quito ECUADOR
Re:
Loan No. 3998-EC (Environmental Management Technical 
Assistance 
Project) - Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Madam Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-captioned Project between the 
Republic of Ecuador (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), dated August 1, 1996, as amended (the Loan Agreement). 
The staff of the Bank and of the Borrowers’ Ministry of Environment recently 
held discussions concerning (1) the dissolution of the Comisión Asesora Ambietal 
(CAAM) pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 394 published in the Registro Oficial of 
December 14, 1998, and the creation of the Unidad de Coordinación de Proyecto de 
Asistencia Técnica para Gestión Ambiental within the Ministry of Environment pursuant 
to Environmental Ministerial Decree No. 17 published in the Registro Oficial of 
January 14, 1999, and (2) the necessity to modify some of the components of the 
Project as a result of the revised operations plan submitted by the Ministry of 
Environment for the period April 1, 1999 to September 15, 2000.  I am pleased to 
inform you that, as a result of these recent discussions and of your request of March 
29, 1999, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
(1)
In Section 1.02, subparagraph (c) “CAAM” is deleted in its entirety; and 
subparagraphs (d) through (t) are re-numbered subparagraphs (c) through (s).
(2)
As a result of the change in sub-paragraph (1) above, throughout the Loan 
Agreement, and wherever it appears, the word “CAAM” is deleted and replaced with the 
word “MOE”.
(3)
A new subparagraph (t) is added in Section 1.02 as follows:
“(t)
“MOE” means Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Environment;”.
(4)
In Section 1.02, subparagraph (cc) is deleted in its entirety and replaced with 
the following: 
“(cc)
“Project Unit” means the Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto de 
Asistencia 
Técnica para la Gestión Ambiental, within the MOE, established 
pursuant to the Acuerdo del 
Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, published in the 
Registro Oficial Number 108 (as defined 
below) on January 14, 1999, which 
is the unit referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;”.
(5)
Section 2.08 is amended by deleting the words “President of CAAM” and replacing 
them with “Minister of Environment”.
(6)
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced with 
the revised Schedule 2 set forth in the Annex to this Amendment-Letter. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter, the provisions of this amendment letter 
will be deemed effective as of the date of this amendment letter.
Page  2
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jonathan Parker
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
  for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office 
AGREED REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Ana Lucia Armijos Hidalgo
Date: August 30, 1999.
Annex 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen: (a) the Borrower’s capacity to 
undertake environmental policy analysis and implementation; (b) the environmental 
management capabilities of MICIP, MIDUVI, MEM, and selected municipalities; and (c) 
the Borrower’s capacity to resolve pollution problems in areas of oil exploration and 
production in the Borrower’s Amazon region and in the Gulf, and to support the 
participatory processes and technical analysis required for the solution of such 
pollution problems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
1.
(a)
Strengthening of MOE’s capabilities to undertake environmental policy 
analysis and design the new institutional framework for environmental management 
through the provision of technical assistance, and development and implementation of a 
public awareness campaign to mobilize public support for, and participation in, such 
framework;
(b)
development and implementation of an environmental information system 
encompassing, inter alia, the identification of relevant information sources inside 
and outside the Borrower’s territory, the design and operation of network retrieval 
centers, and the identification of information gaps and the costs of future 
information developments;
(c)
development of a national system of environmental impact assessment; and
(d)
training of MOE staff as required for the implementation of Parts A1. (b) 
and (c) of the Project.
2.    MIDUVI
(a)
Development of a policy for the management of solid waste in the 
Borrower’s territory; and
(b)
training of the staff in MIDUVI’s environmental unit in waste monitoring 
and management.
3.    MICIP
Page  3
(a)
Strengthening of MICIP’s capabilities to carry out environmental impact 
assessments and to develop environmental policies related to industrial pollution 
control and fishery resource management;
(b)
design of policies for the prevention and control of industrial 
pollution; and
(c)
training of the staff of MICIP’s environmental unit in the implementation 
of the policies, regulations and system referred to in Parts A 3. (a) and (b) of the 
Project.
4.
MEM
(a)
Strengthening of MEM’s capabilities to carry out environmental impact 
assessments and to develop environmental policies related to the energy sector through 
the provision of technical assistance;
(b)
review of environmental impact studies related to hydrocarbon activities 
carried out by public and private investors in the Borrower’s territory and 
development of procedures for the monitoring of the environmental impact of such 
activities;
(c)
training of MEM’s and PETROECUADOR’S staff in the content and procedures 
of environmental impact assessments; and
(d)
dissemination of guidelines and regulations for the petroleum sector 
related to environmental impact assessments, environmental monitoring procedures and 
other related environmental concerns.
Part B:
Environmental Planning and Management in the Borrower's Amazon region 
1.
(a)
Design of a plan for land use and infrastructure development for the 
Shushufindi area;
(b)
identification and carrying out of Infrastructure Subprojects;
(c)
studies on sustainable agriculture in the Shushufindi area; and
(d)
monitoring of the environmental impact of hydrocarbon activities in the 
Shushufindi area.
2.
(a)
Evaluation of the environmental problems and the socio-economic and 
management requirements of selected communities in the Borrower's Amazon region; and
(b)
carrying out of Community Subprojects.
3.
(a)
Carrying out of Sustainable Development Subprojects; and
(b)
training of staff of agencies or NGOs implementing Sustainable 
Development Subprojects, in the preparation and implementation of such Subprojects.
Part C:
Municipal and Provincial Environmental Management
1.
Training of Low Income Communities in environmental management.
2.
Development of the capabilities for environmental management of Small and Medium 
Sized Municipalities and the Provincial Council of Manabi, including:
(a)
the establishment of four urban environmental centers to provide 
technical assistance in the areas of solid waste management, urban planning, land use, 
and environmental risks; 
(b)
preparation of guidelines and manuals on sanitary landfills;
(c)
development of a data base to monitor environmental issues related to, 
inter alia, water use, landfills, urban planning and solid waste management;
Page  4
(d)
training of staff of Small and Medium Size Municipalities in land use 
management of areas subject to natural disasters, and environmental impact 
assessments, and dissemination of information to the public at large on environmental 
concerns of such municipalities; and
(e)
preparation of guidelines on urban land use planning.
3.
Municipality of Quito 
(a)
Development of a plan for the management of hazardous wastes by the 
Municipality of Quito;
(b)
training of municipal staff in environmental policy formulation and 
management; and
(c)
development of a program for the monitoring of drinking water quality in 
the municipality of Quito.
4.
Municipality of Guayaquil
(a)
Preparation of a plan for hazardous waste management for the Municipality 
of Guayaquil;
(b)
design of policies for the environmental protection of the Guayas river 
watershed; and
(c)
dissemination of information to the public at large and training of 
municipal staff in the plan and policies referred to in Parts C 4. (a) and (b) of the 
Project.
5.
Municipality of Cuenca
(a)
Preparation of a plan for environmental management for the Municipality 
of Cuenca;
(b)
training of municipal staff on the environmental management plan referred 
to in  Part C 5. (a) of the Project and other subjects related to the protection of 
the environmental in the Municipality of Cuenca;
(c)
carrying out of a feasibility study on environmental management for the 
protection of the Tomebamba river bank; and
(d)
carrying out of a feasibility study for the recycling of waste oil.
Part D:
Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf   
1.
Information Base Line
Analysis of the various biological, hydrological and biochemical interactions 
which impact on the Gulf’s ecology.
2.
Pesticide Control and Management
Review of the existing uses of pesticides in banana and rice crops cultivation.
3.
Mangrove Use and Management
(a)
Design of a system for the control of, and enforcement of regulations 
related to, the cutting of mangroves;
(b)
strengthening of the Borrower's agencies which have responsibility for 
the control of, and enforcement of regulations related to, mangrove use; and
(c)
dissemination of information to the public at large and training of 
communities in the Gulf in subjects related to the environmental protection of the 
Gulf.
Page  5
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.     
