Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 25282
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Environmental Technical Assistance and Mitigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated November 21, 1995
TRUST FUND NUMBER 25282
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN 
(Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and the International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested 
the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction 
Page  3
and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant have 
been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at 
the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds 
of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
"CAAM" means the Recipient's 
Comisión
Asesora
Ambiental
(Environmental 
Page  4
Advisory Commission); and
(c)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of fifty-eight 
million nine hundred thousand yen (¥58,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Technical Assistance, open and 
maintain in yen a special deposit account either:  (i) in the Central Bank of Ecuador on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator; or (ii) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The President of CAAM, or any other person designated by him in writing 
to the Administrator, is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provision of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance, through CAAM 
and in coordination with the General Planning Secretariat and with all the agencies concerned 
and/or related with the implementation of the Technical Assistance, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and of 
Section 3.03, the Recipient shall through CAAM prepare the annual budgets for the Technical 
Assistance, including the counterpart requirements therefor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Page  5
goods and consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Technical Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
(and the records and accounts for the Special Account) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent private auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator each month certified statements of the 
Special Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
 Effectiveness; Termination
Page  6
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance and Public Credit of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Finanzas y Crédito Público
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN-ED
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Edgar Terán
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Gobind Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants'
31,570,000
100%
           services
(2) Goods
2,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3) Training
12,300,000
100%
(4) Travel Expenses
5,800,000
100%
(5) Administrative
     Expenses
7,230,000
100%
Page  8
     TOTAL
58,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed ¥5,885,000 may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1 on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1994.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures:
(a)
for expenditures under Categories (2) through (5) in the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 herein; and
(b)
for expenditures under contracts with consulting firms and individual consultants 
costing less than $25,000 or $5,000, respectively, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The technical assistance consists of consultant services and associated activities designed 
to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the proposed Environmental Technical Assistance 
and Mitigation Project.  More specifically, the technical assistance consists of the following 
components:
A.
Provision of consultant services (and support to cover expenses for related seminars and 
travel) to strengthen key public sector institutions of the Recipient which are responsible for 
environmental protection and impact mitigation.
B.
Provision of consultant services (and support to cover expenses for related seminars, 
baseline studies and travel) to:  (1) design hydrocarbon pilot cleanup operations in the Amazon 
basin of Ecuador (including preparation of cost estimates, timetables and financing arrangements 
therefor); (2) carry out an assessment, through a consultative process, of public policies affecting 
residents of the Amazon basin of Ecuador; and (3) design pilot eco-development projects for the 
sociocultural development of said residents.
C.
Provision of consultant services (and support to cover expenses for related seminars, 
Page  9
baseline studies and travel) to design a strategy to improve environmental management in urban 
areas, which strategy shall include:  (1) strengthening the environmental management capabilities 
of municipalities in Ecuador (including the municipalities of Guayaquil and Quito); (2) 
preparation of environmental action plans for cities and towns within the areas of the Amazon 
basin in Ecuador affected by petroleum activities; (3) completion of thematic studies on priority 
issues in environmental management in urban areas; and (4) provision of training in support of 
such strategy.
D.
Provision of consultant services (and support to cover expenses for related seminars, 
baseline studies and travel) to design and operate a comprehensive pollution control master plan 
and contaminant monitoring program for the lower Guayas river watershed and the estuary of the 
Gulf of Guayaquil.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
:  General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
:  National or International Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Administrator.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be 
used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $5,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Page  10
Administrator; or (d) amendments of contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $5,000 equivalent or above.
Section III
.  Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process, but may be required to be so registered, at the time of 
contracting, if the Recipient and the Administrator so agree.
2.
Foreign consultants must not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except in 
connection with a joint venture arrangement where:  (a) a sufficient number of capable domestic 
firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; 
(b) the contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by 
any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and (c) the foreign consultant is not required to 
associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services in 
Ecuador under contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, to be registered in 
Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, providing services under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran 
Consultants' Association that are different from those required for Ecuadoran consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations 
as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in an Ecuadoran public sector entity, 
nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the 
conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV
.  Internal Approvals
To the extent any approval of contracts (with respect to the procurement of goods to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant) may be required under the laws of the Recipient, such 
approval need be given only by CAAM.  In addition, with regard to the employment of 
consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, any approval of contracts or of 
consultant selection processes, required under the laws of the Recipient, need be given only by 
CAAM.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures 
covered by such eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator:  (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Page  13
Conditions.
