Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3998-EC
                            Loan Agreement
       (Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project)
                               between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                 and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated August 1, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3998-EC
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
Page  2
     (a)  "AME" means "Asociacin de Municipalidades Ecuatorianas", the
association of municipalities established pursuant to article 559 of
the Ley de Regimen Municipal, the Borrower's municipalities law
published in the Registro Oficial (as defined below) Number 331 on
October 15, 1971;
     (b)  "Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to
in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "CAAM" means Comisin Asesora Ambiental de la Presidencia de
la Repblica, the commission established within the Borrower's
presidency pursuant to presidential decree number 1107 of September
22, 1993, or such other agency or entity that the Borrower may
establish, and which shall be found acceptable by the Bank for
purposes of carrying out the Project;
     (d)  "CEDEGE" means Comisin de Estudios Para el Desarrollo de
la Cuenca del Ro Guayas, the Borrower's regional commission for the
development of the Guayas river basin;
     (e)  "Central Bank" means Banco Central del Ecuador, the
Borrower's central bank;
     (f)  "Community Subproject" means a subproject for the provision
of environmental or social services to communities in the Borrower's
Amazon region which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operating Manual
(as defined below);
     (g)  "ECORAE" means Instituto para el Ecodesarrollo Regional
Amaznico, the Borrower's agency for the development of the Amazon
region;
     (h)  "Environmental Legislation" means the Borrower's law for
the prevention and control of environmental pollution published in
the Registro Oficial (as defined below) Number 97 on May 31, 1976;
Law No. 126 published in the Registro Oficial Number 695 on May 31,
1981 (the Borrower's mining law); Law No. 44 published in the
Registro Oficial Number 326 on November 29, 1993 (the Borrower's
hydrocarbon's law); the Borrower's agricultural development law
published in the Registro Oficial Number 461 on June 14, 1994,
the Borrower's municipalities law published in the Registro Oficial
Number 331 on October 15, 1991; Executive Decree Number 1802
published in the Registro Oficial Number 456 on June 7, 1994 and
such other legislation which enables the Borrower to carry out the
Project;
     (i)  "Guayas Municipalities" means the municipalities which
share the Guayas river watershed;
     (j)  "Gulf" means the Gulf of Guayaquil;
     (k)  "Implementing Agency" means any of the agencies or entities
listed in Section 3.01 (a), subparagraphs (i) through (ix), of this
Agreement; and "Implementing Agencies" means collectively such
agencies and institutions;
     (l)  "Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements or
arrangements to be entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Implementation Agreement;
     (m)  "INP" means Instituto Nacional de Pesca, the Borrower's
fisheries institute operating pursuant to Supreme Decree Number 2026
published in the Registro Oficial (as defined below) Number 486 on
December 19, 1977;
     (n)  "Infrastructure Subproject" means a water supply or
sewerage Subproject which is eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the
Operating Manual (as defined below);
Page  3
     (o)  INOCAR" means Instituto Oceanogr fico de la Armada, the
Borrower's oceanographic institute established pursuant to Decree
Number 642 published in the Registro Oficial (as defined below)
Number 108 on July 25, 1972;
     (p)  "Low Income Community" means a community which is eligible
for training under Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Operating Manual (as defined below);
     (q)  "MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura, the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture;
     (r)  "MEM" means Ministerio de Energa y Minas, the Borrower's
Ministry of Energy and Mines;
     (s)  "MIDUVI" means Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda,
the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Development and Housing;
     (t)  "MICIP" means Ministerio de Industria, Comercio, Integracin
y Pesca, the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration
and Fisheries;
     (u)  "Municipality of Cuenca" means the municipality of Cuenca
established pursuant to the Ley de Rgimen Municipal, the Borrower's
municipalities law published in the Registro Oficial (as defined
below) Number 331 on October 15, 1971;
     (v)  "Municipality of Guayaquil" means the municipality of
Guayaquil established pursuant to the Ley de Rgimen Municipal, the
Borrower's municipalities law published in the Registro Oficial (as
defined below) Number 331 on October 15, 1971;
     (w)  "Municipality of Quito" means the municipality of Quito
established pursuant to the Ley de Rgimen para el Distrito
Metropolitano de Quito, the Borrower's special law published in the
Registro Oficial (as defined below) Number 345 on December 27, 1993;
     (x)  "Municipality of Shushufindi" means the municipality of
Shushufindi operating under the Ley de Rgimen Municipal, the
Borrower's municipalities law published in the Registro Oficial
(as defined below) Number 331 on October 15, 1971;
     (y)  "NGOs" means any non-governmental organization operating in
the Borrower's territory;
     (z)  "Operating Manual" means the manual to be adopted by CAAM
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement setting forth the
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including the
eligibility of the Community Subprojects, the Infrastructure
Subprojects and the Sustainable Development Subprojects (as defined
below);
     (aa) "PETROECUADOR" means Empresa Estatal Petrleos del Ecuador,
the Borrower's hydrocarbons company;
     (bb) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated April 3, 1992 and April 23, 1992 between the Borrower
and the Bank, as amended by exchange of letters dated May 9, 1994 and
June 30, 1994, July 25, 1994 and August 25, 1994, June 19, 1995 and
June 30, 1995, and January 5, 1996 and January 25, 1996, respectively;
     (cc) "Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement;
     (dd) "Provincial Council of Manabi" means the council referred to
in article 81 of the Ley de Regimen Administrativo, the Borrower's law
for the administrative regime published in the Registro Oficial (as
defined below) Number 118 on November 18, 1969;
     (ee) "Registro Oficial" means the Borrower's official gazette;
Page  4
     (ff) "Small and Medium Size Municipality" means any municipality
which is eligible for participation in the implementation of Part C.2
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operating
Manual;
     (gg) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (hh) "Subproject Financing" means a grant or loan made by CAAM
out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing of the costs (other
than the cost of civil works) of a Community Subproject, an
Infrastructure Subproject or a Sustainable Development Subproject (as
defined below) in accordance with the provisions of the Operating
Manual (as defined below); and
     (ii) "Sustainable Development Subproject" means a reforestation,
aquaculture, coffee cultivation or other environmental subproject
which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of the Operating Manual.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank or
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment if the account is opened in a commercial
bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Pre-
paration Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 15, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The President of CAAM is designated as representa-
Page  5
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through CAAM,
with the assistance of the agencies and entities listed below in
respect of each part of the Project:
          (i)  MIDUVI - Parts A.2, C.2 (b) (c) and (e), and C.1
         (ii)  MICIP - Part A.3
        (iii)  MEM - Part A.4
         (iv)  PETROECUADOR and Municipality of Shushufindi - Part B
          (v)  AME and the Provincial Council of Manabi - Part C.2
               (other than C.2 (b) (c) and (e))
         (vi)  Municipality of Quito - Part C.3
        (vii)  Municipality of Guayaquil - Part C.4, and also with
               the assistance of the Guayas Municipalities in respect
               of Part C.4 (b)
       (viii)  Municipality of Cuenca - Part C.5; and
         (ix)  INP, INOCAR, MAG and CEDEGE - Part D
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative, environmental and ecological practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding para-
graph and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Annual
Operating Plans and the Operating Manual.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets,
and make available promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required
for the Project as provided in the Annual Operating Plan for the
respective year.
     (d)  The Borrower shall by no later than thirty (30) days after
the Effective Date: (i) open and thereafter maintain, until completion
of the Project, an account in a bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of managing the counterpart
funds required by CAAM for implementation of the Project; and (ii)
make an initial deposit of $100,000 equivalent in the account referred
to in subparagraph (i) herein.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through CAAM, enter into an
agreement or arrangement with each of the Implementing Agencies, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementa-
tion Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest of the
Borrower and the Bank and to achieve the purposes of the Loan, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements or any provision
thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
Page  6
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that CAAM will
maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project unit with a sub-
unit located in Guayaquil, all staffed by professionals with quali-
fications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank, assisted by qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall,
through CAAM:
     (a)  By no later than July 31 and January 31 of each year,
commencing January 31, 1997, until the completion of the Project,
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a report containing,
inter alia, information on the Project activities carried out during
the preceding semester in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request; and
     (b)  by no later than April 30 of each year, commencing April
30, 1997, until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for
its approval, an annual operating plan for the implementation of the
Project during the upcoming twelve months, such plan to comprise: (i)
the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the
respective year; (ii) the objectives, and expected results or outputs
of such activities; (iii) the corresponding cost estimates and budgets,
including the counterpart funds; (iv) the performance indicators and
timetables for implementation; and (v) the relevant institutional
arrangements and responsibilities.
     Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall, through CAAM, by no later than July 31 of each year, commenc-
ing July 31, 1997, until the completion of the Project, review with
the Bank the overall progress achieved in the implementation of the
Project.
     (b)  If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in
the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower
shall, through CAAM, promptly take, and shall ensure that the
Implementing Agencies promptly take, all such action, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the
Project or the general achievement of its objectives.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure, through CAAM, that
Community Subprojects, Infrastructure Subprojects and Sustainable
Development Subprojects are appraised, selected, carried out, financed,
monitored and supervised in accordance with the provisions of the
Operating Manual.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
Page  7
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent private auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than four months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CAAM
or for the suspension of its operations.
     (b)  The Environmental Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the Bank's
opinion, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified: that any of the
events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                               ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Operating Manual has been adopted by CAAM; and
     (b)  at least one Implementation Agreement each has been entered
into for the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project.
     Section 6.02. The date October 30, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VIII
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the  Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas y Crdito Pblico
          Avenida 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
          Quito, Ecuador
          Cable address:           Telex:
               MINFINANZAS         22358 MINFIN-ED
               Quito, Ecuador
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI), or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
               By /s/ Edgar Teron Teron
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
Page  9
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated                % of
                         (Expressed in            Expenditures
    Category                Dollars)             to be Financed
(1)  Goods                                       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
     (a)  for Part A of the   232,000)           100% of local
          Project                    )           expenditures
     (b)  for Part B of the   790,000)           (ex-factory
          Project                    )           cost) and 85%
     (c)  for Part C of the   437,000)           of local ex-
          Project                    )           penditures for
     (d)  for Part D of the   660,000)           other items pro-
          Project                    )           cured locally
(2)  Consultants' Services
     (a)  for Part A of the  2,618,000)          100%
          Project                     )
     (b)  for Part B of the    984,000)
          Project                     )
     (c)  for Part C of the  1,759,000)
          Project                     )
     (d)  for Part D of the  1,608,000)
          Project                     )
(3)  Operating Costs           500,000           85%
(4)  Subproject Financing      800,000           100% of the amount
                                                 of the Subproject
                                                 Financing
(5) Workshops
     (a)  for Part A of the    235,000)          100%
          Project                     )
     (b)  for Part B of the    102,000)
          Project                     )
     (c)  for Part C of the    312,000)
          Project                     )
     (d)  for Part D of the    213,000)
          Project                     )
(6)  Public Awareness        1,800,000           100%
     Campaign
(7)  Refunding of              450,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated             1,500,000
                            __________
          TOTAL             15,000,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
Page  10
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Operating Costs" means the cost of office space,
utilities, supplies and other expenses related to the operation of
the Project Unit and the environmental centers referred to in Part
C.2 (a) of the Project;
     (d)  the term "Workshops" means the cost of travel and per diem
of attendees to any workshop carried out as part of: (i) the training
and dissemination activities, as the case may be, included in Parts
A.1 (d), A.2 (c), A.3 (d), A.4 (c) and (d), B.3 (b), C.1, C.2 (d),
C.3 (c), C.4 (c), C.5 (b), D.3 (b), D.4 (c) and D.5 (b) of the
Project; and (ii) such other parts of the Project as the Bank shall
agree, and other costs related to the conduction of any such
workshop; and
     (e)  "Public Awareness Campaign" means the cost of production of
videos and audiovisual materials, television and broadcast services,
printing of materials and other services required for the design
and dissemination of the public awareness campaign referred to in
Part A.1 (a) of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures incurred by or on behalf of an Implementing
Agency unless the respective Implementation Agreement has been
entered into.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods,
and services for the public awareness campaign under Part A.1 (a) of
the Project, under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent,
services of consulting firms and individual consultants under contracts
costing less than $25,000 and $10,000 equivalent, respectively,
workshops, Subproject Financing and operating costs, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to strengthen: (a) the
Borrower's capacity to undertake environmental policy analysis and
implementation; (b) the environmental management capabilities of
MICIP, MIDUVI, MEM and selected municipalities; and (c) the
Borrower's capacity to resolve pollution problems in areas of oil
exploration and production in the Borrower's Amazon region and in
the Gulf, and to support the participatory processes and technical
analysis required for the solution of such pollution problems.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
1.   (a)  Strengthening of CAAM's capabilities to undertake environ-
mental policy analysis and design the new institutional framework for
environmental management through the provision of technical
assistance, and development and implementation of a public awareness
campaign to mobilize public support for, and participation in, such
framework;
Page  11
     (b)  development and implementation of an environmental informa-
tion system encompassing, inter alia, the identification of relevant
information sources inside and outside the Borrower's territory, the
design and operation of network retrieval centers, and the identifi-
cation of information gaps and the costs of future information
developments;
     (c)  development of a national system of environmental impact
assessment; and
     (d)  training of CAAM's staff as required for the implementation
of Parts A.1 (b) and (c) of the Project.
2.   MIDUVI
     (a)  Development of water quality policies and improvement of the
system for water quality monitoring being applied by MIDUVI;
     (b)  development of a policy for the management of solid waste in
the Borrower's territory; and
     (c)  training of the staff in MIDUVI's environmental unit in waste
monitoring and management.
3.   MICIP
     (a)  Strengthening of MICIP's capabilities to carry out environ-
mental impact assessments and to develop environmental policies related
to industrial pollution control and fishery resource management;
     (b)  design of policies for the prevention and control of
industrial pollution;
     (c)  review of the Borrower's fisheries policies and preparation
of fisheries regulations, including the updating of the system for the
monitoring of fishery resources; and
     (d)  training of the staff of MICIP's environmental unit in the
implementation of the policies, regulations and system referred to in
Parts A 3. (b) and (c) of the Project.
4.   MEM
     (a)  Strengthening of MEM's capabilities to carry out environmental
impact assessments and to develop environmental policies related to the
energy sector through the provision of technical assistance;
     (b)  review of environmental impact studies related to hydrocarbon
activities carried out by public and private investors in the Borrower's
territory and development of procedures for the monitoring of the
environmental impact of such activities;
     (c)  training of MEM's and PETROECUADOR's staff in the content and
procedures of environmental impact assessments; and
     (d)  dissemination of guidelines and regulations for the petroleum
sector related to environmental impact assessments, environmental
monitoring procedures and other related environmental concerns.
Part B:   Environmental Planning and Management in the Borrower's Amazon
          Region
1.   (a)  Design of a plan for land use and infrastructure development
for the Shushufindi area;
     (b)  identification and carrying out of Infrastructure Subprojects;
     (c)  studies on sustainable agriculture in the Shushufindi area;
and
     (d)  monitoring of the environmental impact of hydrocarbon
Page  12
activities in the Shushufindi area.
2.   (a)  Evaluation of the environmental problems and the socio-
economic and management requirements of selected communities in the
Borrower's Amazon region; and
     (b)  carrying out of Community Subprojects.
3.   (a)  Carrying out of Sustainable Development Subprojects; and
     (b)  training of ECORAE's staff, and staff of agencies or NGOs
implementing Sustainable Development Subprojects, in the  preparation
and implementation of such Subprojects.
Part C:   Municipal and Provincial Environmental Management
1.   Training of Low Income Communities in environmental management.
2.   Development of the capabilities for environmental management of
Small and Medium Sized Municipalities and the Provincial Council of
Manabi, including:
     (a)  the establishment of four environmental centers to provide
technical assistance in the areas of solid waste management, urban
planning, land use, and environmental risks;
     (b)  preparation of guidelines and manuals on sanitary landfills;
     (c)  development of a data base to monitor environmental issues
related to, inter alia, water use, landfills, urban planning and solid
waste management;
     (d)  training of staff of Small and Medium Size Municipalities in
land use management of areas subject to natural disasters, and environ-
mental impact assessments, and dissemination of information to the
public at large on environmental concerns of such municipalities; and
     (e)  preparation of guidelines on urban land use planning.
3.   Municipality of Quito
     (a)  Design of a new sanitary landfill for the Municipality of
Quito including an environmental and social assessment therefor;
     (b)  development of a plan for the management of waste by the
Municipality of Quito;
     (c)  training of municipal staff in environmental policy for-
mulation and management; and
     (d)  development of a program for the monitoring of water quality
in the Municipality of Quito.
4.   Municipality of Guayaquil
     (a)  Preparation of a plan for environmental management for the
Municipality of Guayaquil;
     (b)  design of policies for the environmental protection of the
Guayas river watershed;
     (c)  dissemination of information to the public at large and
training of municipal staff in the plan and policies referred to in
Parts C.4 (a) and (b) of the Project; and
     (d)  identification of environmental investment projects for the
Municipality of Guayaquil.
5.   Municipality of Cuenca
     (a)  Preparation of a plan for environmental management for the
Municipality of Cuenca;
Page  13
     (b)  training of municipal staff on the environmental management
plan referred to in Part C.5 (a) of the Project and other subjects
related to the protection of the environment in the Municipality of
Cuenca;
     (c)  carrying out of a study on the financial requirements for
the protection of the Cuenca river banks; and
     (d)  carrying out of a feasibility study for the recycling of
waste oil.
Part D:   Environmental Information and Management in the Gulf
1.   Information Base Line
     (a)  Completion of a data base with information on the pollution
problems of the Gulf;
     (b)  analysis of the various biological, oceanographic, hydro-
logical and biochemical interactions which impact on the Gulf's
ecology; and
     (c)  development and implementation of an environmental monitoring
and control system for the Gulf's area.
2.   Environmental Management Policies
     (a)  Analysis and formulation of policies for the development of
fisheries in the Gulf and the use and management of fisheries and
mangroves therein;
     (b)  preparation of a plan for environmental management for the
Gulf; and
     (c)  preparation of guidelines for the enforcement and control of
environmental policies for the Gulf.
3.   Pesticide Control and Management
     (a)  Review of the existing uses of pesticides in banana and other
crops cultivation;
     (b)  dissemination of information to the public at large and
training to users of pesticides in the environmental policies related
to their use; and
     (c)  identification of possible alternatives for pest control,
including integrated pest management.
4.   Mangrove Use and Management
     (a)  Design of a system for the control of, and enforcement of
regulations related to, the cutting of mangroves;
     (b)  strengthening of the Borrower's agencies which have
responsibility for the control of, and enforcement of regulations
related to, mangrove use; and
     (c)  dissemination of information to the public at large and
training of communities in the Gulf in subjects related to the
environmental protection of the Gulf.
5.   Investment Projects
     (a)  Identification of investment projects aimed to mitigate the
environmental impact of economic activities carried out in the Gulf;
and
     (b)  training of concerned agencies' staff in environmental
management of the Gulf.
Page  14
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                              SCHEDULE 3
              Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its
Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue,
at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms
have the following meanings.
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
Page  15
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
               Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii) minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the
               Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below
               (or above) the [London] interbank offered rates, or
               other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
               respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated to fund single currency
               loans or portions thereof made by it that include
               such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applic-
able to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto,
in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Datefollowing the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.
Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after September 15,
2009 the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of
all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
Page  16
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods, and services for the public awareness campaign under Part
A.1 (a) of the Project, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   Specific Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, goods
and services for the public awareness campaign under Part A.1 (a) of
the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods, and services for the public awareness campaign under Part
A.1 (a) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,300,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods,  and services for the public awareness campaign under Part
A.1 (a) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,900,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and services shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and services estimated to
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  17
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms esti-
mated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$10,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the con-
tract value to $25,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.   Special Provisions
A.   In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods and services referred
to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.   Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alter-
native proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be
read aloud when opened.
2.   Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local represen-
tative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.   Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to CAAM without
recertification by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or
entity.
4.   Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by CAAM shall be admissible without recertification
or other participation by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran
person or entity.
5.   Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods shall not be
required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier in whole or in
part. This shall not prevent CAAM from obtaining other performance
warranties from such suppliers.
B.   In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines,
the following provisions shall govern all employment of consultants
referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.   Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
2.   Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where:
          (i)  a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or
               individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
               consultant reasonable freedom of choice;
         (ii)  the contribution of either party to the joint venture
Page  18
               arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed
               manner or extent of participation; and
        (iii)  the foreign consultant is not required to associate
               itself with any specific named domestic firms or
               individual consultants.
3.   Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital
different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.   Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be
required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants' Association that
are different from those required for Ecuadoran consultants.
5.   No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or
her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or
any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadoran public
sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry
into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her
consulting services.
Section IV.    Internal Approvals
1.   With respect to the procurement of goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding
documents and contracts required under the laws of the Borrower
shall be given only by CAAM.
2.   With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the
laws of the Borrower, shall be given only by CAAM.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  The term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$1,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
be equal to or exceed $2,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
Page  19
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
               Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
               and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
               under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
Page  20
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 6
            Terms and Conditions of Implementation Agreements
1.   The Implementation Agreements shall provide that the Borrower,
through CAAM, shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require the Implementing Agencies to assist in the carrying
out of their respective parts of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, admini-
strative, environmental and ecological practices and to maintain
adequate records;
     (b)  require that:
          (i)  goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
               of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
               provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  such goods and services shall be used exclusively in
               the carrying out of their respective parts of the
               Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites, works and plants
included in the Project, the operation thereof and any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that the insurance which shall cover the hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation or any indemnity thereunder be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Implementing Agencies to replace or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and, if applicable, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Implementing
Agencies and to the benefits derived from the Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right of any Implementing Agency to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Implementing
Agency to perform any of its respective obligations under its re-
spective Implementation Agreement.
2.   The Implementation Agreements shall provide that if the Borrower
shall have determined at any time that any payments made under such
Implementation Agreements were made by the Implementing Agencies for
an expenditure not eligible for financing under Schedule 1 to this
Agreement or made in any manner contrary to the provisions of this
Agreement, the Implementing Agencies shall, promptly upon notice from
the Borrower, refund to the Borrower an amount equal to the amount so
Page  21
used or the portion thereof specified by the Borrower.
3.   The Implementation Agreements shall provide that the Implementing
Agencies shall:
     (a)  appoint or designate an officer with qualifications,
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
for purposes of coordinating the implementation of their respective
parts of the Project;
     (b)  prepare and furnish to the Project Unit the information
required for the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement; and
     (c)  in accordance with their respective Annual Operating Plans,
coordinate with the Project Unit the procurement of goods and the
selection of consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
4.   The Implementation Agreements shall require the Implementing
Agencies to take all such action as shall be required to enable the
Borrower to comply with the provisions of the Loan Agreement related
to their respective Parts of the Project.
