Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6544-ONI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
April 15, 1987
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
Division III
This document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Omani Rial (R.O.)
US$ 1 = 0.384 R.O.
1 R.O. - US$ 2.604
(Exchange Rate from January, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
BHC                       Basic Health Care
BHCDS                     Basic Health Care Delivery System
BRHO                      Batinah Regional Health Office
DC                        Development Council
DOF                       Directorate of Finance, Ministry of Health
DSPF                      Directorate of Statistics, Planning & Follow-up
FPMS                      Financial Planning and Management Section
GNP                       Gross National Product
HIS                       Health Information Section
-SMP                      Health Services and Manpower Planning
IHS                       Institute of Health Sciences
MCH                       Maternal and Child Health Care
MOF                       Ministry of Finance
MOH                       Ministry of Health
MOSAL                     Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
ODA                       United Kingdom Overseas Development Agency
RHO                       Regional Health Officer
UNDP                      United Nations Development Plan
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                     United States Agency for International Development
WHO                       World Health Organizarion
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Sultanate of Oman uses the Metric system of weights and measures.



FOR OFFXIAL USE ONLY
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
BASIC DATA SHEET   ... .   * . . .   * * . . * * .   a * * * *               i * * * *
DEFINITION OF POPUIATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION TEMS   . . . . . . . . . ii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   iv
I* BACKGROUyND  ............................................................. I
II.  SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . .                  1
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status  . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  The Health Care Policy and System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.  Population and Nutrition: Policy and Services  . . . . . . . .   4
D.  Health Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank  . . . . . . . .   5
E.  Role of Other Donors . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . . . . . .   6
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
A.  Project Objectives and Design  .. . ..  . ... .. . . . . .. ..      7
B.  Summary of Project Composition . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   8
C.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
IV.  PROJECT COSTS ANDFINANCING   ....................    15
A.  Cost of the Project  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   15
B.  Project Financing  ...l.a. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   18
C. Project Recurrent Costs  ...  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   18
D.  Procurement  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   19
E. Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
F.  Special Account  ......... ... ... ... .. ..  .   22
G.  Accounts and Audits  ..     . .      . . . .. . ...... .. ..    22
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . .       ..........    22
A.  Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
B.  Organization and Management  .. . . . . . .    . . .  . . ....   23
C.  Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October
1986 to the Sultanate of Oman composed of Messrs./Mdmes. Santiago
Friedmann (mission leader), Harry Go, Taraneh Tavana and Margaret
Valdivia, PHND3; Edward 0. Pratt and Robert Wickham (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Paite Nos
Al *kJC BeneftsT * M *   It  . . .                                                       . . .  26
V . P ROiJts   . . . .  .   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . .  26
VII. AGREEMENTS AND        NDCECATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
M&D
IBRD No. 19897
AnnexeC:
Annex 1:  Demographic and Health Information, and Ministry of Health
Infrastructure and Expenditures
Annex 2:  Implementation & Procurement Schedules, Staffing Program,
Fellowbhips, Technical Assistance Programs, and Local Training
Programs
Annex 3: Project Cost Tables
Annex 4:  The Basic Health Care Delivery System (BECDS)
Annex 5:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts:
Chart 1: Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Healtb
Chart 2: MOB Health Facilities by Type
Chart 3:  Ministry of Health, Directorate of Statistics,
Planning & Follow-up



SULTANATA OF OKAX
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
A.  General Country Data                                            Ye       Sourcg
Population Estimate (millions)                            1.1       1984       (2)
Population Projections (millions)
Population for Year 2000                                1.8                  (1)
Stationary Population                                  4.5                   (1)
Assumed Year for Reaching Net Reproduction          2035-40
Rate of one (NM-I1)
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                    6,490       1984       (2)
Urban Population (X of total)                              27         *        (1)
Primary Enrollment L te (Z)                                89       19851      (1)
Area (Square Kilometers)                             300,000                   (1)
Population Density (per ha under cultivation)              36       1985       (4)
B.  Ponulation
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                               45       1984       (2)
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                               14       1984       (2)
Annual Rate of Population Growth (Z)                      4.5      1973-84    (2)
Total Fertility Rate                                      6.8       1984       (2)
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                         110       1984       (2)
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                           53       1984       (2)
Population Age Structure (X):
0 - 14 years                                       44.9                   (1)
15 - 64 Years                                      52.5          *        (1)
65+ years                                           2.6          *        (1)
C. Health Sector Resources
Population per Physician                                1,580       1984       (3)
Population per Nursing Person                             700       1984       (3)
Population per Hospital Bed                               524       1984       (3)
Total Expenditure on Health as Z of GNP                   3.4       1983       (4)
10  Budget as I of Total Governmental Budget             3.9       1985       (4)
D. Hospital Utilization
Total Admissions per 1,000 Population                   137.6       1984       (3)
Total Patient Days per 1,000 Population                 663.5       1984       (3)
Occupancy Rate (X)                                       98.9       1984       (3)
Average Length of Stay (days)                             4.8       1984       (3)
* Most recent estimate - between 1982 and 1985
1 Gross enrollment includes over-age and repeating students.
SOURCES: (1) Economic and Social Indicators Data Sheet, World Beak, June
1986; (2) World Development Report 1986; (3) Annual Statistical
Report, Sultanate of Oman, MON, 1984; (4) Mission estimates.



- ii -
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Definition of Population, Health and Nutrition Terms
Child Mortality Rate:               Annual deaths of children 1-4 years of
age per 1,000 children in the same age
group.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate:      The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using a modern
method of contraception at any time.
Crude Birth Rate:                   Number of births per 1,000 population in
a given year.
Crude Death Rate:                   Number of deaths per year per 1,000
people.
Degree of Malnutrition:             The Gomez classification scale
distinguishes three degrees in
malnutritionu:
First (mild): 75-902 of median weight for
age;
Second (moderate): 61-75X of median
veight;
Third (severe): 601 or less of median
weight and all children suffering from
edema.
Dependency Ratio:                   Population 14 years or under and 65 years
of age or over as percentage of active
population (aged 15 to 64 years).
Indicates proportion of population that
needs economic support.
Infant Mortality Rate:              Annual deaths of infants under 1 year of
age per 1,000 live births during the same
year.
Life Erpectancy at Birth:           The number of years a new-born child
would live if subject to age-specific
mortality rates prevailing at time of
birth.



- iii -
SULTANATE OF OMAN
IRALTE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Definition of Population, Realth and Nutrition Terms (Cont'd)
Low Birth Weight (LBW):             Infants weight at birtb less than 2,500
gr. LBW may be associated with either
pre-term (less than 37 weeks gestation or
full-term but small for dates (38 weeks
or more) of gestation.
Maternal Mortality Rate:            Number of maternal deaths per 100,000
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth or post-partum.
Morbidity:                          The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Prevalence Rate:                    The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk; usually expressed per
1,000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase:           The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to a surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage oZ the total population.
Replacement Level Fertility:        Level of fertility at which a cohort of
women on the average are having only
enough daughters to replace themselves in
the population.
Total Fertility Rate:               The average number of children that would
be born to a woman if she experiences a
given set of age-specific fertility rates
throughout her lifetime. Serves as an
estimate of average number of children
per family.



- iw -
SULTANATE LiP OMox
HEALTH PROJECT
STAll APPRAISM* REPORT
Loan and Pro lect Sugmri
Borrower:      Sultanate of Oman
Executing
AUency,:       Ministry of Health
Am2unt##       US$13.3 Million Equivaleut
Terms:         Repayment in 15 yeais, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's staudard variable interest rate.
Project
Obiectives:    The proposed project would: (a) reduce mortality and
morbidity, particularly of 300,000 inhabitants of the
predominantly rural Batinah region; (b) strengthen
Govertment's institutional capacity to plan and manage the
health sector; and (c) prepa:e the way for the country-wide
implementation of a more efficient service delivery model.
Proiect
Description:   Part A:  Realth Services Develooment.  The proposed project
would assist the MOE to implement a basic health care
delivery system (BUCDS) which integrates curative and
preventive care and health promotion. It wvould help MOE to:
(a) establish BHCDS in Batinah as the first phase of its
nationwide implementation through: establishing a new
Regional Health Office; completing the network of BRC
facilities; and supporting outreach activities; (b)
strengthen regional training by supporting the establishment
of pre-service and in-service training programs in Batinash
and other regions; and (c) strengthen health promotion by
supporting nationwide health educstion activities tbrough the
Health Education Section of MOR. Plt B:  Strznatheaiu
MO4 s He,alth Sector Plannina and Manaaement Cauabilitv. The
proposed project would assist the MOR in improving sector
efficiency, effectiveness, and financing, by strengthening
the NOR a analytical, planning and management capability.
The project would support an institution-building process
focused on improving management information systems in health
and finance; improving financial planning and management; and
developing health services and manpower planuing. The
project would help MOB to establish: (a) a new Realth
Information Section and a new Health Services and Manpover
Planning Section within the Directorate of Statistics,
Planning and Fol ow-up; and (b) a new Financial Planning and
Management Section within the Directorate of Finance.



- v 
The project will be carried out over five years and would
p,ovide funds for civil works, equipment, furniture,
vehicles, materials, drugs and supplies; technical
assistance, fellowship and training, and incremental
operating costs.
Benefits
6 Risks:       The project would yield three benefits: (a) reduce mortality
and morbidity, particularly among poor people in rural areaq,
and infants, chiidren and women of childbearing age as a
result of expanded health services coverage and intensified
healtb promotion activities; (b) ease the demands of the
health sector for public resources as a result of greate.
efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery, improved
investment planning and use of resources for operation, and
the introduction of cost containment and cost recovery
measures; and (c) reduce dependence on expatriate labor
through the establishment of training programs. In addition,
the project would develop MOH's institutional capacity to
expand the cost-effective BHCDS throughout Oman. The
Government has made a fiim commitment to provide adequate
budgetary resources and all project components are included
in the MOH budget under the Tbird Five Year Plan (1986-90).
The principal risk relates to the fact that the
reorganization and expansion of health services would, at
least in the initial phase, make for considerable demands on
the management skills and adaptability of NOR staff, and call
for a sustained commitment on their part. However,
participation in the project preparation and app-aisal has
given MOE staff an understanding of the project's potential
for achieving the country's health objectives in the most
cost-effective way. Moreover, the high piiority of the
projects health objectives and the understanding of the
project's potential fo3 improving efficiency and
effectiveness in the sector together with the impact of the
project's institution-building and training components should
deepen this understandi.ng and increase MOH capability to
implement it. The project provides for the establishment of
a strong regional management for the new basic health care
delivery system and for its monitoring.



- vi -
Es&ia4atd Costs:
imni Rials %iill)       l)S$ (Mill)  _             Foreig    X Total
Iacal  Foreim   Total   Local  ForeMi    Total    ciwe   Bse Costs
Al ELI SEfVlCJ DWLA3I
1. Eetablisbivg M6 in
Batinah          4.2       2.9     7.1   10.8    7.5    18.3          41         68
2. EStablishilg Regicnal
.Trainizi         0.3      0.2      0.5    0.8      0.6     1.4        44          5
3. S     tir Health
Provtia          0.2      04      _0.6    0.5      1.0     1.5        i66         6
Subtotal HEALT SEIRVCES
4.7      3.5      8.2   12.1     9.1    21.2         43        79
B.  _I   KS
PLNR AMAND        =
CAPAMM                  1.0      1.0      2.0    2.6     2.5    5.1          49         19
C. IlE(bU K4!llZI          0.0     0.2      0.2             0.5    Q           81          2
Total Base Costs           5.7      4.7     10.4   14.8    12.1    26.9         45        100
Physical Contingencies  0.1    0.2      0.3    0.4     0.7     1.1         72          4
Price Cotimencies     0.8      0.2      1.0    2.1     0.5     2.6        19          10
TOM ALDJE1 COaTS           6.6      5.1    11.7   17.3    13.3    30.6          44        114
_m==                    -
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign          Total
----------- US$ Million--
Gove-nment                  17.3                -             17.3
Baik                        -                13.3            13.3
TOTAL                       17.3             13.3            30.6
=t5z_t     *m: sinm          m-t: m
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
…       -- ---        us$  Million…
Annual            1.6      2.0      2.4      2.2      2.2      1.8      1.1
Cumulative        1.6      3,6      6.0      8.2    10.4    12.2    13.3
Estimated Rate of Return:                    Not Applicable



SULTANATE OF  OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
Staff ARnraisal Report
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Oman is largely desert and partly mountainous.  About half of the
population lives on the fertile coastal plain, and in or near Muscat, the
capital of the country. Only about 30% of the population is literate, but
primary school enrollment rates have been growing very rapidly and had
reached 95% for males and 72% for females by 1984.
1.02      Oman is undergoing rapid socio-economic change.  In 1970, there
were only 10 km of paved roads, 3 schoo2Is and 12 hospital beds to serve some
650,000 people in an area of 300,000 km . Today, Oman has a full-fledged
civil service, a modern banking system, and about 3,000 km of paved roads.
At the end of 1984, there were 604 schools and 2,960 hospital beds.
1.03      Oman's development as a modern state, based almost entirely on oil
revenues, began from a very low base only sixteen years ago. Despite
progress in the capital city of Muscat, living conditions and the health,
nutrition and educational status of the population in rural areas, are still
poor, close to those in low-income countries (see Annex 1, Table 1).
Current government policy is to diversify the oil-dependent economy, promote
a wider distribution of social services and encourage human resource
development, with specific goals of gradually replacing the expatriate
workers by trained Omanis. An important constraint in achieving this goal
is Oman's shortage of skilled labor. With the sharp drop in oil prices in
1986, the Government reduced its investment targets for the Third Five-year
Development Plan (1986-90). During appraisal, the Bank and the Government
agreed to reduce project costs in an effort to remain within the revised
investment targets.
II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A.  Population. Health and Nutrition Status
Health Status
2.01      The health status of the population has improved significantly in
the past fifteen years, but still remains very poor. In 1984 such
indicators as life expectancy at birth (53 years), crude death (14 per
thousand), and infant mortality (110 per thousand live births) were well
below those for middle-income countries, and close to those for Sub- Saharan
African countries (see Annex 1, Table 1). Oman's main health problems are
preventable communicable diseases and complications of pregnancy and
childbirth.   The limited information available suggests that the most
common ailments among children are respiratory disease, protein-calorie
malnutrition, enteritis, diarrhea, and measles, and, among people of all



- 2 -
ages, respiratory disease, malaria, enteritis, diarrhea, tuberculosis, and
trachoma (see Annex 1, Tables 2, 3 and 4).
Population Status
2.02      No census has ever been taken in Oman.  In 1984, the Bank
estimated the population at 1.1 million. In addition, there are about 0.4
million foreign workers and their families in Oman. The population growth
rate (4.5% between 1973 and 1984) and the annual rate of natural increase
(3.2%) are high, and the total fertility rate of about 6.81 is among the
highest in the world.  The rapid growth of population is due to high
fertility, the large-scale immigration of expatriate labor, which comprised
60% of the labor force in 1985, and falling mortality. At the present rate
of natural increase, the population will double in 22 years and, if
immigration stays at the level of the last decade, the population will
double in 16 years. Children under 15 years of age comprise 451 of the
total population so that Oman has a high dependency ratio (90% in 1984).
Nutrition Status
2.03      The nutritional status of infants and children is poor.  A 1980
UNICEF report estimated that 213 out of every 1000 children would die in
their first four years of life from diarrhea, gastroenteritis, low birth
weight or congenital abnormalities. In Oman, infant malnutrition is not so
much due to poverty as to poor environmental sanitation, unsatisfactory
weaning and family feeding practices, the decline in breastfeeding, early
maternity, and short intervals between pregnancies.
B. The Health Care Policy and System
Health Policy
2.04      The Government health policy until late 1970s largely promoted
curative and urban-based services. A reorientation toward preventive care
began with the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1981-86) which aimed at
development of primary health care and included: (i) expanding health care
services to rural and sparsely populated areas in order to provide services
closer to the population; (ii) establishing district health centers to
reduce pressure on hospitals; (iii) strengthening primary health care
programs; and (iv) establishing a strategic reserve of essential medicines.
The Government is presently implementing its Third Five-Year Plan (1986-91)
which focuses on improvement of equity, efficiency and effectiveness of
health services. To further operationalize these goals, the Government is
planning on implementation of a new integrated basic health care delivery
system. Integration of curative and preventive care services and facilities
at the primary level would improve quality of care, extend coverage to the
underserved population in a cost-effective way and would result in better
utilization of human resources and services at the secondary level.



-3-
Health Care System
2.05      In Oman, the MOH provides health care for 65% of the population,
while the Armed Forces, the Royal Omani Police and the Petroleum Development
Company of Oman cover a further 15%. The remaining 20%, living mainly in
remote rural areas, has very limited access to health care facilities and
programs. In 1985 the bed/population ratio was 2.0 per 1,000 people which
compares well with the ratio for upper middle income countries. The MOH
operates 15 hospitals with 2,142 beds, 25 other types of curative center
with 435 beds, 74 dispensaries for outpatient care, and 54 preventive care
centers. The other providers operate four hospitals with 182 beds, and 36
dispensaries with 191 beds. The private sector consists of about 300
medical offices and 90 pharmacies (see Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7).
2.06      The MOH provides health services through two sharply separated
delivery systems, one for curative and the other for preventive services,
each administered by a separate Directorate (see Chart 2).
2.07      The Directorate of Curative Services provides health care at the
primary, secondary and tertiary levels through a hierarchy of peripheral,
district and central health centers and hospitals. These facilities are
adequately equipped and staffed with competent expatriate physicians and
nurses who, however, tend to be concentrated in the capital area and the
regional hospitals. Partly for this reason, there is no standardized
referral system; patients tend to bypass the lower levels to seek treatment
in the hospitals, whose outpatient departments are overloaded. The result
of the concentration of staff and hospitals in urban areas is that many
people in outlying areas have inadequate access to health services.
2.08      The Directorate of Preventive Services administers a network of
units (see Chart 2) which conduct a preventive program comprising
environmental sanitation, health promotion, control of communicable diseases
and MCH in terms of pre- and postnatal care. Despite rapid progress, the
program is still weak in terms of quality of service and coverage.
Health Manpower
2.09      The ratios for physicians (one to 1,580) and nurses (one to 710)
to population in Oman compare favorably with those in other upper middle
income countries (see Annex 1, Table 1). However, Omanis constitute only
8.4% of the 592 doctors and 11.8% of the 1,753 nurses employed by the MOH
(see Annex 1, Table 5). All Omani doctors have been trained abroad. Except
for senior positions in the MOH, Omanis serve mainly as sanitary assistants
and medical orderlies. In the past few Omanis received secondary education
that would qualify them for professional training. This situation is
rapidly improving, so that the MOH is planning to reduce its dependence on
expatriates through training programs that would also serve to upgrade the
skills of the existing lower level Omani staff. The newly opened university
in Oman will graduate 25 general physicians a year, beginning in 1991. As
this number will be insufficient, the MOH will have to continue providing
fellowships for training abroad.



-4-
Health Sector Finances
2.10        Total public and private expenditure on health absorbs 3.4% of
GNP, and averages about US$200 per head, vhich is above the average for
upper middle-income countries but only half of the figure for high income
oil-exporting countries. Public outlays form 80Z and private outlays 20% of
total expenditure on health.  Investment in the construction of health
facilities, high in the early 1970s, declined from 58% of the MOB budget in
1974 to 31% in 1985 (see Annex 1, Table 8).
C. PoDulation and Nutrition : Policy and Services
Population Policy
2.11      Population matters are very sensitive in Oman largely because of
its strategic location, its perceived low population density, and the large
number of expatriates in the labor force. For these reasons, the Sultanate
has not announced any population policy. Nevertheless, projections based on
the current demographic patterns estimate that Oman will reach a net
reproduction rate of one between years 2035 and 2040 and the size of the
stationary population will be 4.5 million. A comparison made in the
Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Memorandum (Report No. 5313-OM,
October 30, 1984) of two population projections, one which assumes a
spontaneous fertility reduction, and another which assumes a rapid fertility
reduction (RFR) that might be achieved witb an active population policy,
shows that a rapid decline of fertility levels would significantly reduce
Oman's future requirements for financial resources, expatriate labor and
scarce natural resources (e.g. water, and arable land) needed to satisfy the
population's demand for private consumption and public services (see Annex
1, Table 9).
Family Planning Services
2.12      Until recently, only private physicians provided family planning
services, and contraceptives could be bought only at private pharmacies.
Since 1984, in response to the studies showing the deleterious effect of
insufficient child spacing and high parity on maternal and child health, MOH
staff has been advising on birth spacing, and gynecologists have been
delivering contraceptives, inserting IUDs, and performing sterilizations.
However, these services are provided only on demand.
Nutrition Policy and Services
2.13      The Government has no explicit nutrition policy.  In 1986 the MOB
iA collaboration with WHO and UNICEF and the Ministry of Social Affairs and
Labor (MOSAL) started a national campaign on child health aimed at covering
90% of children by the year 1991. In terms of nutrition programs, the focus
of the campaign is on improving services provided at the health centers by
raising awareness among mothers on the benefits of breastfeeding, weaning



- 5 -
practices, and correct food purchasing, preparation and fasily feeding
practices.
D. Health Sector Iosues #ad the Role of the lank
Service Provisionri Cotr ^Bt-
2.14      Since 1970, ample financial resources have enabled Oman to build
and staff an extensive network of health facilities which serves most of the
people and has significantly improved their health status. These
achievements, however, leave plenty of scope for improvements in efficiency,
effectiveness and coverage. Firt, there is still much preventable illness
and death, particularly in rural areas and among infants and women of
reproductive age. Second, people go to hospitals for services (e.g.
outpatient care, normal deliveries) that could be more cost-effectively and
efficiently provided by lover level facilities near their hones. Third,
most doctors and nurses are expatriates who do not speak Arabic and whose
approach is hospital oriented.
2.15      Steps therefore need to be taken to (a) shift the emphasis of the
health service delivery system from hospital-based curative care by
strengthening preventive and health promotion activities; (b) integrate the
now separate curative and preventive delivery systems, and extend coverage
to the underserved population by the expansion of the service network and
the introduction of effective supervision, outreach and referral systems;
and (c) train Omani staff in skills appropriate to the integrated and
extended delivery system.
2.16      The MON  has accordingly drawn up a plan for the integration of
basic curative and preventive services in a regionalized, Basic Health
Service Delivery System (IBCDS) (see Annex 4). All facilities in a region
would be administered by a Regional Health Office and would provide basic
medical treatment, preventive health care, maternal and child health care
including nutrition education and :bild spacing, and health promotion
services. Each region would bave its ovn training program. The MOB plans
to set up the first regional BECDS in the Batinah region where it would
serve some 300,000 inhabitants.
Hanag-erial Constraints
2.17      The MON has been successful in establishing an institutional
capacity for performing the routine "maintenance" functions required by its
rapidly expanding delivery system. Hovever, as the whole healtb system
becomes more complex and growing expenditures put increasing pressure on
financial resources, it becomes imperative to strengtben MOB's ability to
plan and manage the sector.
2.18      MOB's ability to effectively plan and munage the sector is
hampered by three major and interrelated constraints. First, both financial
and health statistics are not thoroughly analysed and are in any case
inadequate for sectoral planning.  8ecou, the budgeting and accounting



- 6 -
system is not program-oriented and does not provide a basis for ascertaining
the actual cost of services, or for estimating the cost of alternative
investment programs. Third, the MOB lacks planning staff capable of
estimating the financial, human, and material resources needed to implement
new programs. In particular, there are no adequate arrangements for the
preparation of annual budgets and estimates of medium term financial needs,
or for the projection of staff requirements and the preparation of
professional and in-service training programs.
2.19      The decline of oil prices has underlined the urgency needed to
overcome these constraints so that MOB can examine alternatives for
improving operational efficiency, and for financing health expenditures
including cost-recovery (see para. 3.27 below). The MOB plans to deal with
these constraints by strengthening the Directorate of Statistics, Planning
and Follow-up (DSPF) and the Directorate of Finance (DOF).
The Bank's Role
2.20        Through its operations in Oman, the Bank has helped the
Government principally in two crucial areas: (a) overcoming national
manpower constraints; and (b) development of appropriate policies and
investment strategies in priority sectors. Given the weakness in the health
sector and Government's interest in introducing to MOB proper planning,
project preparation and management methods, a health project was included in
the lending program. The Bank's assistance to the health sector in Oman
started with a Health, Population and Nutrition Sector Review mission in
December 1983.   A sector memorandum was produced in October 1984 (Report
No. 5313-OM) which identified main sector constraints and recommended a
strategy for their resolution. Project components were selected to support
Government's plans in priority areas. The project proposal was prepared by
MOH with the help of three short-term consultants. Bank missions assisted
the preparation of this proposal and the Bank helped MOB to obtain financing
for the consultants from UNDP and UK/ODA.
E. Role of Other Donors
2.21      Several multilateral and bilateral agencies support 'Oman's
development efforts in the health sector. Programs are modest and
interagency coordination is limited. Multilateral assistance is provided by
WHO, UNDP and UNICEF and focuses mainly on disease control ptograms and
strengthening MCH activities.  Support for the GOBI progrpms (Growth
monitoring, Oral rehydration therapy, Breastfeeding, and Immunizations)
includes limited production of IEC materials and will include technical
assistance in nutrition and diarrheal disease control. Oman also receives
assistance from various bilateral donors such as the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Administration (ODA), the British Council and USAID. The ODA
assisted Oman by offering technical support to the Institute of Health
Sciences, and scholarships for nurses, and hospital administrators. The
British Council provides a few scholarships and technical assistance
opportunities on request. USAID assists in nursing and communicable disease
control programs through its Peace Corps Volunteers program. USAID also



contributes to the Omani-American Joint Commission which supports a
significant training program. As a member of the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC), Oman participates in and receives assistance from its various
technical divisions involved with policy, institutional, service and
manpower developments in the health sector. Activities of private voluntary
agencies are very limited.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Desian
3.01      The proposed project would: (a) reduce mortality and morbidity,
particularly of 300,000 inhabitants of the predominantly rural Batinah
region; (b) strengthen Governmenut's institutional capacity to plan and
manage the health sector; and (c) prepare the way for the country-wide
implementation of a more efficient service delivery model.
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project would: (a) help the MOE
carry out the first phase (in the Batinah region) of the introduction of a
new basic health care delivery system (BRCDS) which integrates preventive
and curative care; (b) intensify manpower training and health promotion
activities; and (c) support an institution-building process focused on
improving collection and analysis of health and financial information,
health services and manpower development planning, and financial planning
and management.
3.03      By the time the project is completed, it is expected that the
following health service targets would be met in the Batinah region: (a) the
vaccination of 90% of the target population; (b) prenatal and delivery care
for 901 of pregnant women; (c) postnatal care for 752 of pregnant women; (d)
child spacing services for all who request them; and (e) outreach services
for at least half of the population without easy access to health centers.
Providing these services would result in a substantial reduction of
mortality and morbidity among the 300,000 inhabitants of the Batinah region,
in particular for some 100,000 people, predominantly rural and in the lower
socioeconomic groups. The expanded MCH program would, in particular,
benefit some 170,000 women (15-49 years) and children (0-5 years).
3.04      The MOH has reviewed with the Bank during appraisal work plans and
timetables for: (a) the establishment of the Regional Health Office in the
Batinah region; (b) the establishment/upgrading of the Health Services and
Manpower Planning Section, the Health Information Section, the Financial
Planning and Management Section, and the Health Education Section at MOH
headquarters; (c) the preparation and production of operational and referral
manuals, and the installation of an effective outreach program for the BWCDS
in Batinah; (d) the regional training of health staff; (e) the installation
of health and financial information systems, (f) the preparation of studies
and proposals for cost-containment and sector financing alternatives,



- 8 -
including cost recovery; and (f) the preparation of 0OH annual plans and
budgets and of the next Five Year Plan (1991-1995) for the health sector.
B. Siumarv of Proiect ComDosition
3.05      The project would consist of the following components (of which
the costs given below are base costs only):
PART A:  Health Serviwes Development  (Base Cost: US$21.3 million)
A.1 Establishing Basic Health Care Delivery System (BHCDS) in Batinah
(Base Cost: US$18.3 million). The first phase of the nation-wide
implementation of the integrated BHCDS would be supported through: (a)
technical assistance, fellowships, salaries and other operating expenditures
for the new Regional Health Office in Batinah; (b) constructing a regional
health office building, 7 new basic health care units and upgrading 3
existiug basic health care facilities; (c) equipment, furniture, materials,
and vehicles for the new and upgraded basic health care centers; and
salaries for some 200 incremental staff, drugs and other incremental
operating costs; and (d) support for outreach innovative activities.
A.2 Strenathening Regional Trainina (Base Cost: US$1.4 million).
Support to the establishment of pre-service and in-service training programs
in Batinah and other regions through tutors, training materials and
perdiems.
A.3 Stren8thening Health Promotion (Base Cost: US$1.6 million).
Support to nation-wide patient education and other health education
activities through the Health Education Section of MOH by providing:
(a) technical abeistance; (b) training of some 1,500 health staff and 400
community leaders/wurkers; (c) production of health education materials and
mass media programs (in cooperation with the Ministry of Information);
(d) surveys and evaluation activities; and (e) equipment, vehi0les and
incremental operating costs.
PART B:  Strengthening MOH's Planning and Management Cavabilitv (Base Cost:
US$5.1 million). Sup?ort to the Directorate of Statistics, Planning and
Follow-up and the Directorate of Finance of the MOH through: (a) technical
assistance; (b) fellowships and study tours; (c) workshops for headquarters
and field staff; (d) office refurbishment and equipment and ve.,icles; and
their operating costs, (e) support for special studies particularly in the
area of health financing; and (f) salaries of incremental staff.
PART C: Proiect Management (Base Cost: US$0.6 million). Support to
strengthen project management capability by providing: (a) a deputy project
coordinator, an administrator/accountant, a secretary, and a part-time
procurement specialist; and (b) office and computer equipment, vehicle and
travel cost for recruitment of expatriate staff for the project.



- 9 -
C. Proiect Description
PART A: Health Services Development
A.1 Establishment of the Basic Health Care Delivery System (BHCDS) in
Batinah
3.06      The project would support the establishment of the new BHCDS 1 in
the Batinah region as a first step towards its extension to the whole
country. The Batinah Regional Health Office (BRHO) would be established in
the city of Sohar and the network of health facilities would be reorganized
and expanded to provide an integrated package of curative, preventive and
promotive services. The BRHO will be headed by the Regional Health Officer
(RHO). Under the general guidance of the RHO, an Administrative Officer and
his staff will deal with administrative matters. On technical matters the
RHO will be assisted by the Medical Officer in Charge of the Sohar Hospital,
a Technical Officer, three specialized staff (on Manpower Development,
Health Education and Health Information System), two short-term consultants
and other staff. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the MOH
would have appointed the regional health officer, and would have selected
the manpower development, health education and health information system
officers with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank [para.
7.01 (a)]. Terms of reference for these positions were reviewed and agreed
during appraisal.
3.07      The public health unit in Sohar would be integrated into the
existing hospital, which would continue to provide upper level referral for
the whole region and would provide integrated BHC to the population in
Sohar. The region would be divided into four subregional health offices,
each under a subregional health officer. In each subregion, the network of
(existing and additiona!) facilities, including staff and services, would be
organized in a modular design with three main types of health centers: "A",
"B", and "C". All centers would provide basic medical treatment, preventive
and promotive services. The degree of sophistication improves at each level
from "C" through "A" health centers:
(a) Health Center "C" would serve up to 5,000 people, have no beds and
a size of about 280 m2. Services would comprise medical treatment, expanded
program of immunization (EPI), oral rehydration therapy (ORT), maternal and
child health (MCX) including child spacing on request, school health, health
and nutrition education, environmental health and sanitation, and
supervision and support of community health workers and outreach services to
isolated areas.
1 The new BHCDS was designed by the MOH to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of its services by organizing them into regional systems
delivering integrated curative and preventive services. The system is
described in detail in Annex 4.



- 10 -
(b) Health Center "B" would serve up to 15,000 people, have no beds
and a size of about 400 m2. In addition to the services provided in center
"C", services provided would be dental treatment, x-rays, laboratory and
pharmacy services, and screening services (chest, eye, etc.).
(c) Health Center "A" would serve up to 50,000 people and would be the
referral apex for the subregional BHC module, and would have between 12 and
36 beds and a size of about 1,700 m2. In addition to the services provided
in center "B", in-patient care, maternity deliveries and care, radiological
examinations, and ambulatory specialist services on a sessional basis (such
as ophthalmology, chest, gynecology, etc.) would be provided.
3.08      One health center "A" would be at the apex of the sub-regional BBC
module. The provision of laboratory and radiological services, maternal
care, and selected specialist and pharmacy services in the center "A" would
ensure adequate support for cases referred from "B" and "C" centers.  The
regional and specialized hospitals would also provide support in the
referral system at higher levels. Improving the quality of care in the "B"
centers by provision of x-ray, laboratory services and pharmacy would also
reinforce the referral process by meeting the referral need of some patients
in the "C" center, hence, maintaining a two-way referral process.
3.09      As an integral part of the Health Information System (HIS)
discussed in para. 3.24 each health center would have a clerical staff or a
nurse assigned to compilation of service statistics. The registers of staff
would be inspected on regular basis by personnel from regional and central
offices. Service data collected would ensure proper supervision process and
would help implementation of the referral system.
3.10      Staffing norms, schedules of accommodations and equipment lists
have been developed by MOB for each type of health center. These are based
on perceived tasks for services to be delivered, patient demand and
utilization, and a response to cultural factors that require sex separation
of patients, providers and accommodations for some services. They were
reviewed during appraisal and found to be consietent with the corresponding
service packages.
3.11      The national noIms for the BHCDS have been adjusted to take into
consideration the specific characteristics of the Batinah region where a
large proportion of the population live along the excellent coastal road,
but there are also some significant population clusters quite isolated up in
the interior with a number of inhabitants close to the upper limits selected
for the type "B" and "C" centers. In isolated areas with a number of
inhabitants around the upper limit for a type "B" center, the health
facility will have beds to provide delivery and basic in-patient services;
in those with a number of inhabitants around the upper limit for a type "C"
center the health facility will be provided with a small laboratory and a
dental chair. Three existing facilities would be upgraded (one to type "B"
and two to type "C") and seven new centers (three type "A", and 4 type "C"
with laboratory and dental chair) would be built to complete the physical
network needed to provide services to the 300,000 inhabitants of the Batinah



- 11 -
region. By the end of the third year of the project, the regional network
would be in full operation and would consist of the Sohar hospital, four
type "A", five type "B" and six type "C" centers.
3.12      The project would provide for staff salaries and operating
expenses of the BRHO; the salaries of the Subregional Health Officers; 72
man-months of fellowships for BRHO staff; and for construction, equipment
and furniture for the BRHO building, and 7 new centers, and for upgrading 3
existing centers. The project would also provide for some 200 additional
staff (6 doctors, 18 medical assistants, 95 nurses, paramedicals, and health
technicians, 28 orderlies, and some 55 other support personnel) required to
meet the staffing norms agreed upon during appraisal (see Annex 2, Table 3-
A), about 23 vehicles for supervision, referral and outreach activities, and
some funds for innovative outreach activities designed to provide better
services for people in remote areas.
3.13      Considering that, heretofore, curative and preventive facilities
have been separately managed by the Directorates of Curative and Preventive
Services, it would be necessary to modify the MOE's management structure at
headquarters to provide for a unified chain of command from MOB headquarters
to the BREO. The MOB is considering proposals for unifying at headquarters
the management of basic health services through the establishment of a
Directorate General of Health Services or a Directorate of Basic Health
Services. During negotiations, assurances were received that the MOH shall
have in place by March 31, 1990, the institutional structure which combines
curative and preventive care to manage the basic health care delivery system
(para. 7.02 (a)]. Until such time when a unified management of health
services nationwide is established in MOB, a unified chain of command from
headquarters to the Regional Health Office in Batinah will be provided
through the Directorate of Curative Services and the appointment in MOB
headquarters of a person to perform the tasks envisioned for a proposed
Assistant Director of Regional Health Services, whose terms of reference
have been agreed with the Bank. The Batinah Regional Health Officer will
have direct access to the directors at MOB headquarters and the Project
Coordinator. Technical guidance for the development of integrated services
in Batinah will be provided by the existing Technical Committee for
Upgrading the Basic Health Services.
A.2 Establishment of tegional Training
3.14      The objectives of this component are: (a) to provide staff with
the additional skills required by the integration of BHC services; and (b)
to reduce MOE's dependence on expatriate staff by training substantially
larger numbers of Omanis for intermediate health services positions.
Training activities would be conducted on a nation-wide basis, beginning
with the Batinah region.
3.15      To achieve these objectives, the project would support the
preparation and execution of in-service and pre-service training programs
(see Annex 2, Table 6). In-service training would include the principles
and practice of medicine and nursing, preventive health, MCH including child



- 12 -
spacing, health and nutrition education, management, medical and health
technology, and instruction tailored to particular grades of staff (see
Annex 2, Table 6-A). Under the project about 240 staff in the BRHO would
receive in-service training. In addition, induction seminars would be
organized for some 125 staff.
3.16      The pre-service training program would include regional courses
for registered and assistant nurses and other para-medical staff,
emphasizing practical instruction. These regional courses would supplement
the more hospital-oriented courses of the Institute of Health Sciences and
would help to open the health professions to local people, especially women.
In this area the project fully complements the Third Education Project which
aims at expanding secondary school education to an additional 850 females
which would be prepared to take on technical training including technical
training in health professions. The curriculum and training materials for
the registered and assistant nurse courses would be prepared during the
first project year, and a first cohort of 35 students would begin training
in Batinah in 1989. Experience gained with these courses in Batinah would
provide the basis for organizing siwilar training in other regions. The
project would support the pre-service training of some lu) assistant nurses
and 20 registered nurses. Assurances were received during negotiations that
the programs and curricula for the assistant and registered nurse courses,
would be completed and available for Bank review by December 31, 1988 and
pre-service training would start by September 1989 [para. 7.02 (b)].
3.17      Responsibility for the training program would rest with the
manpower development officer in the BRHO with the support of the manpower
planner of the Health Services and Manpower Planning Section of the NOH.
Classroom space is available in Sohar hospital and is provided for in the
plans for the new main health centers of the subregions. Funds would be
available for educational materials and equipment, and tutors' and students'
per diems.
A.3 The Strengthening of Health Promotion.
3.18      The objective of this nation-wide component is to increase the
people's awareness of health matters and their ability to protect and
improve their health and to utilize the health services adequately. To
achieve this objective the project would:
(a) develop and make available information, education, and motivation
programs and printed materials for use in health facilities, schools and
communities;
(b) promote the education of patients by supporting pre-service and
in-service health education and communications skills training for some
1,500 health personnel and 400 community leaders/workers;
(c)  support the Ministry of Information (OI) in the preparation of TV
and radio programs on health.



- 13 -
3.19      The above activities would be mainly targeted towards women of
child bearing age and would be designed to promote preventive care with
special focus on breastfeeding, weaning practices, child spacing,
immunization, and oral rehydration. To ensure the efficiency of these
activities, a health attitudes, behaviors and beliefs survey would be
carried out in Batinah at the beginning of the project, and the health
promotion activities would be evaluated through audience research studies.
Puring negotiations, assurances were received that a healtb attitudes,
behaviors and beliefs survey would be carried out at the beginning of
project implementation. Terms of reference for the study would be submitted
to the Bank for review no later than April 30, 1988; the findings and
Government's proposed follow-up actions would be discussed with the Bank by
October 31, 1988 [para. 7.02 (c)].
3.20      Responsibility for health promotion would rest with the Health
Education Section of the Directorate of Preventive Medicine in the MON. The
Ministry of Information has agreed to provide broadcasting time and to
produce programs on health. Most of this work would be contracted out to
specialist firms.
3.21      The project would provide the Health Education Section with: 12
man-months of technical assistance to help carry out the survey and the
evaluation; two expatriate experts and two Omani trainees to produce
materials and train health staff; 48 man-months of fellowships for the
trainees; per diems and other expenses for training workshops for health
personnel and community leaders/workers; audio visual equipment; two
vehicles and material production costs. It would also enable the MOI to
obtain specialized assistance in the preparation of scripts for some 40 TV
health education programs per year.
Part B:  Strengthenina MOH's Planning and Management Canabilitv
3.22      The project would assist the MOB to improve sector efficiency,
effectiveness and financing by strengthening MOB's analytical, planning and
management capability. The project would focus on an institution-building
process by improving management information system in health and finance;
improving financial planning and management; and developing health services
and manpower planning.
3.23      To improve the management information system (MIS) in health and
finance, and financial planning and management, the project would: (a)
upgrade the existing Statistical Unit of the Directorate of Statistics,
Planning and Follow-up (DSPF) to Health Information Section (HIS) within
DSPF (see Chart 3); and (b) establish a new Financial Planning and
Management Section (FPMS) within the Directorate of Finance. The new MIS
would improve planning and management of service provision, its supervision
and enforcement of proper referral system which would lead to efficiency and
cost-effectiveness in the health system. It would also support the
identification and implementation of opportunities for cost-containment
measures and assist in the design and implementation of an effective cost
recovery system.



- 14 -
3.24      The new HIS w4uld set up by June 30, 1989, and maintain
thereafter, a national system for gathering vital data on mortality,
morbidity, birth and health services in conjunction with the statistics unit
of the Development Council; undertake analyses of data for planning,
management, supervision and evaluation purposes; and design and carry out
short-term surveys and studies. To improve data collection in the regions,
the DSPF would assist the Regional Offices and other pertinent NOR units in
the collection and processing of data and in design and execution of surveys
and studies. The project would provide: 84 man-months of long-term and 20
man-months of short-term technical assistance; 96 man-months of fellowships;
per diems and other costs of about 18 workshops; computer and office space
equipment; four vehicles, salaries of incremental staff and operating
expenses (see Annex 2, Table 3).
3.25      The new FPMS would set-up by June 30, 1989, and maintain
thereafter a computerized cost-accounting system which would draw on data
available within the MOH and would provide a detailed breakdown of
expenditure by: type of services, main diagnostic groups, geographical
areas, population groups, input category and service provider; and a system
for processing and analyzing financial and accounting information to.be
presented as regular reports circulated to MOR's senior officers, planners
and line managers.  These reports would be used for policy making and
investment decisions; in preparing and monitoring MOR'S budgets and in
identifying and evaluating cost containment measures.  The project would
provide: 60 man-months of long-term and 17 man-months of short-term
technical assistance; 22 man-months of fellowships; per diems and other
costs of about 10 workshops; computer and office space and equipment; one
vehicle; salaries of incremental staff and operating expenses (see Annex 2,
Table 3).
3.26        To ensure that the health information system and the financial
information system are compatible with one another and form au effective
management information system (MIS), an MIS working group would be
established with the participation of the staff of HIS, FPMS and the Health
Services and Manpower Planning Section. The working group would be chaired
by the Director of the DSPF.
3.27      In order to create the capability within MOH to plan and manage-
the development of health services and its manpower implications, the
project would support establishment of a new Health Services and Manpower
Planning and Follow-up Section within the DSPF. The Section would be
responsible for preparation of annual and five-year plans for the sector as
a whole; the estimation of manpower needs and the formulation of human
resources development programs including in-service training and creation of
career ladders. Two main specific tasks of this Section would be: (a)
developing the plans for the nationwide implementation of the BHCD system.
During negotiations, assurances were received that a plan for the nationwide
implementation of the BHCDS during the next five-year plan, including a
manpower development program and phased staffing plan would be completed and
be ready for Bank review by March 31, 1990 [para. 7.02 (d)]; (b)
coordinating with the FPMS for preparation of a study on health financing



- 15 -
including a proposal for alternative cost-recovery measures. The terms of
reference for the study on sector financing would be ready by June, 1988,
because adequate time is needed for: (i) the new Health Services and
Manpower Planning Section to be staffed and become operational; and (ii) the
section to work closely with other Government agencies such as the Ministry
of Finance, and Development Council for preparing a framework for the study
which addresses Government needs and priorities. During negotiations,
assurances were received that terms of reference for a study on sector
financing, including alternative cost recovery measures would be submitted
to the Bank for review by June 30, 1988; the study would be completed by
June 30, 1989; and the Government would by October 31, 1989, review with the
Bank the findings and recommendations of such study and the measures
proposed by the Government to be taken by January 1990, on the basis of such
recommendations. [para. 7.02 (e)]. The project would provide: 156 man-
months of long-term and 6 man-months of short-term technical assistance; 75
man-months of fellowships; per diem and costs of about 9 workshops; computer
and office equipment; vehicles; salaries of incremental staff and operating
costs.
3.28      The structure, work plans, staffing, technical assistance and
other needs of the proposed sections in the DSPF and DOF were reviewed and
agreed upon during appraisal (see Annex 2, Tables 3, 5, and 6). Because at
the onset no suitable qualified Omanis would be available to fill most of
the new positions in these sections, the MOB would: (a) fill the positions
initially with expatriates under long-term contract; (b) train Omanis
overseas and on-the job to take over the positions when contracts for
expatriate staff expire; and (c) hire short-term consultants to assist in
detail planning, design, implementation and evaluation of the proposed
programs. Terms of reference for these positions were reviewed and agreed
during appraisal.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AID FINANCING
A. Cost of the Proiect
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.6 million
equivalent including contingencies. The foreign exchange component would be
US$13.3 million equivalent or 44Z of total project cost. The Government
exempts all project related expenditures from taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange and local costs of the project by project component and category of
expenditure are given in Tablet 4.01 and 4.02 below. Detailed cost tables
are pretented in Annex 3, Tables 1 through 4.



- 16 -
Table 401Q: PROJECT COSTS BY CIPOUENT
,a    Dials Nluwm           1W$ (mil1m)    X          Foreign   I Total
local  Foreig   Total   local  Foeip   Total    Dclwe   Base Costs
A. KM= SVIC SIE
1. atabiDsh    MMS in
BItinab           4.2      2.9      7.1   10.8     7.5    18.3         41         68
2. EItAblsizg Regil
Trainiz           0.3      0.2      0.5    0.8     0.6      1.4        44          5
3.  ktw Belth
Prt'til           0.2      0.4      M 6                                66          6
SiAotal  1A3E SEVICIS
MARM           4.7      3.5      8.2   12.1     9.1    21.2         43         79
B.             wrawm  Mrs
MIAN    AN)    1ir
CAPAIT1Y                1.0      1.0      2.0    2.6      2.5     5.1         49         19
C. PRJ     MnA             0.0      02       0.2   0.1      Qt       0.6        81          2
Total Base Costs           5.7      4.7     10.4   14.8    12.1    26.9         45        100
Physical mtigemies  0.1        0.2      0.3    0.4      0.7     1.1         72          4
Price Cotaimgces     0.8       0.2      1.0    2.1      0.5     2.6         19         10
TOTL           oIlS        6.6      5.1     U.7   17.3    13.3    30.6           44        114
_         _               - _      _-    



- 17 -
Table 4.02:  PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
m  Rils b Nillu A)        us$ wiiw
Local Foreig   Total  local Foreig   Total
1. 1 1Ffl~  C06TS
A. Civil Works &
Aectural Fees   0.9        1.3     2.2   2.3    3.5    5.8
B. Eqiit, FuniP e,
Vehicles & Materials  0.1  0.8     0.9   0.2    2.2    2.4
C. Techiical Assitate
& Fellowhips       0.3     1.4     1.7   1.0    3.6    4.5
D. local Trainirg
& S s              0.4     0.3     0.7   IA0    0.7    1.7
Total InVestnt Costs     1.7     3.8     5      4.5   10.0   14.4
a. ROOs
A. Salaries of
Incremntal Staff    3.7    0.0     3.7   9.6    0.0    9.6
B. Vehicles & Eauipnet
Maintaace          0.1     0.2     0.3   0.2    0.3    0.5
C. Other Operatizg
Costs              0.2     0.7     0.9   0.6    1.8    2.4
Total Recurret Cost      4.0     0.9     4.9  10.4    21    1
TIOM  1a COSTS           5.7     4.7    10.4  14.9   12.1   26.9
Physical Cmtirgeicies  0.1   0.2     0.3   0.4    0.7    1.1
Price Ccoati'acies    0.8    0.2     1.0   2.1    0.5    2.6
TOAL PMXMTT OIST        6.6      5.1    11.7  17.3   13.3   30.6
.                                         --             m
4.02      Project base costs reflect estimated prices at the scheduled time
of negotiations: (March, 1987).  Estimated construction costs are based on
unit prices derived from current contracts and cost analysis for similar
types of construction, with adjustments of 5 to 10 for regional cost
differences. The costs for architectural services reflect the current fees
cbarged by foreign architectural firms. Cost estimates for equipment are
based on an agreed list of items and on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted
to include local transportation costs and, where appropriate, installation
costs. Furniture cost estimates reflect the percentage of construction
costs represented by similar projects in Oman. Costs of materials
production for health promotion are based on Oman market prices. Project
costs also include 32 vehicles (at a unit c.i.f. price of about US$17,662);
348 months of fellowships for overseas training; and 100 man-months of



- 18 -
short-term and 37.5 man-years of long-term technical assistance.
Incremental salaries, local training costs and operation and maintenance
expenses are based on current government rates.
4.03      The project cost includes contingency allowances of US$3.7 million
or 14% of base cost. Physical contingencies (US$1.1 million or 4% of base
cost) have been set at 1OZ of estimated cost of construction, equipment,
furniture, vehicles, and materials and 52 of estimated cost of technical
assistance. Price contingencies (US$2.6 or 101 of base cost) have been
based on projected increases of local and foreign prices as shown in Table
4.03 below.
Table 4.03: PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION (%)
Fiscal year               1987       1988      1989       1990      1991-96
Foreign Costs             3.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       3.5
Local Costs               5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0
4.04      The estimated foreign exchange component of the project is Us$13.3
equivalent, or about 44% of the total project cost. This estimate is based
on the following assumptions: (a) most construction materials would be
imported; (b) local architects would be employed; and (c) all equipment,
furniture, vehicles, drugs and supplies would be imported. On the above
assumptions, and taking into account local transportation aud installation
costs, and the provision of accommodation for expatriates, the foreign
exchange components of the different categories of expenditure are estimated
to be as follows: civil works and architectural fees 601; equipment,
furniture, vehicles, and materials 90Z; technical assistance 80X;
fellowships 901; drugs and supplies 901; local training and seminars 401;
and vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance 601.
B. Proiect Financint
4.05      The proposed loan of US$13.3 million equivalent would finance 441
of the total cost of the project and 1001 of the estimated foreign exchange
portion of the total project cost. The Government would finance 56% of
total project cost.
C. Proiect Recurrent Costs
4.06      At full operation in 1993, the project would add US$4.3 million
equivalent a year to the annual recurrent budget of the Ministry of Health,
of which 86% would be for the BHCDS in Batinah. This increase in the
recurrent budget represents 0.06% of GNP and 3.11 of the total MOH recurrent
budget in 1986. To meet project-related incremental recurrent costs in full
operation, the MOB recurrent budget would have to grow at an average annual
rate of 0.41 a year. The Bank expects that GNP will grow at a rate of about
3.01 over the next decade. Given that the Government intends to maintain



- 19 -
MOH's share of the national budget, it should be easy to accommodate the
project-related incremental expenditures.
4.07      Government plans to extend the BHCDS to the rest of the country
during the next five year plan period (1991-95). The estimated investment
coat of this extension amounts to US$25 million, or 122 of the investment
expenditures of the Ministry of Health in the period 1981-85. National
implementation of the BHCDS would increase the recurrent costs of BEC
facilities by about US$13.3 million or 9.7% of MOH total recurrent
expenditures and 0.3% of total government expenditures in 1985. The MOB,
the Ministry of Finance and the Development Council foresee no problem in
finding these resources, since no large new investments will be needed in
the health sector after the current five year plan. The government
recognizes that the BHCDS is central to improve the efficiency of the health
services and to extend coverage to underserved areas.
D. Procurement
4.08      Procurement arrangements for the project under the Bank loan are
summarized in Table 4.05 below:
Table 4.04: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
CATEGORIES                       ICB         LCB       OTHER      TOTALS
1. Civil Works (6 Arch. Fees)    ---          6.7        ---          6.7
(4.0)                   (4.0)
2. Equipment, Furniture,          3.9         1.0         ---         4.9
Vehicles, Materials         (3.6)       (0.9)                   (4.5)
and Drugs and Supplies
3. Technical Assistance,
Fellowships.                ---                    4.9           4.9
(4.0)        (4.0)
4. Local Training & Seminars    ---          ---         1.9          1.9
(0.8)        (0.8)
5. Recurrent Costs (Memo item)  ---          ---        ---          12.2
(0.0)
TOTAL                      3.9         7.7       6.8          30.6
(3.6)      (4.9)    ( 4.8)        (13.3)
Figures in parentheses represent Bask contribution.



- 20 -
4.09       As the health centers are small (about US$0.6 million average)
and mostly in remote areas, it is unlikely that their construction will
attract foreign bidders. Therefore, contracts (total US$6.7 million
including contingencies) financed under the loan would be awarded according
to local competitive bidding, which allows for participation of foreign
firms, and is a ceptable to the Bank.
4.10      The total cost of equipment, furniture, vehicles, and materials,
drugs and supplies is estimated at US$4.9 million equivalent (including
contingencies), of which US$3.9 million is expected to be procured through
ICB in accordance with the May 1985 Bank guidelines. Items would be grouped
to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk procurement.
Packages in excess of US$50,000 would be procured through ICB. Small items,
or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent, or
specialized items for which ICB is not practical, would be purchased after
LCB according to procedures which would be acceptable to the Bank. These
items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$0.8 million, or 16% of the
total estimated cost of goods, including contingencies. Readily available,
off-the-shelf goods or standard specification commodities of not more than
US$10,000 in value could be procured through prudent shopping, based on
prices quoted by at least three foreign or local suppliers. These items
would not exceed a total of US$200,000, or 4Z of the total estimated cost of
joods.
4.11      The selection and appointment of local and foreign consultants
would be in accordance with the August 1981 "Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Werld Bank as Executing
Ageucy".
4.12      For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB,
qualifying domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports
or 15Z of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
4.13      The Bank would review before contract award, all draft bid
documents and contracts for goods to be procured through ICB (701 of total
goods cost); and all draft contracts and qualifications of consultants. The
Bank would also assist MOH to review the draft bid documents and contracts
for construction of the seven new health centers (92% of total civil works
costs). Other contracts would be subject to Bank review after award.



- 21 -
4.14      The proceeds of the Bank losn would be disbursed as in Table 4.06
belovw
Takle 4.: PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Amount
(US$Million       Percentage of Expenditure
Category                          Equivalent)       to be Financed
1. Civil Works & Arch. Fees        4.0       601
2. Equipment, Furniture,           3.8        1002 of foreign expenditures,
Vehicles, Materials, and                   1001 of local expenditures
Drugs and Supplies                         (ex factory cost) or 851 of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
3. Technical Assistance,           3.8        1OOX
Fellowships
4. Local Training & Semiuars       0.7        401
5. Unallocated                     1.0
TOTAL                          13.3
,.o=
4.15      The loan would be fully disbursed in about seven years in
accordance with the Schedule of Disbursements given in Annex 3, Table 5.
The proposed profile of seven years is based on: (a) the SUM13 regional
profile for all projects of eight and a half years; (b) Oman's good
implementation record; and (c) the relatively advanced stage of project
preparation. The loan closing date vould be May 31, 1994.
4.16      Withdraval applications for contracts above US$100,000 equivalent
would be fully docusented. D.sbursements against contracts below US$100,000
wou'd be based on statements of expenditure. Documentation for these
expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank, but would be kept in the WOB
and subject to review during project supervision missions and by the
auditors.
4.17      In order to expedite the project, retroactive financing of up to
US$0.6 million for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1986, on Bank
financed items procured undei Bank guidelines would be accepted.



- 22 -
F. Special Account
4.18      In order to facilitate timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the
loan, an advance disbursement from the loan would be deposited in a Special
Account, opened by the Borrower and maintained in the Central Bank of Oman
or a commercial bank in US dollars, from which the project entity can
reimburse itself for payments made to contractors, suppliers, and others to
cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures.   After loan effectiveness,
the Bank would upon receipt and approval of the Borrower's withdrawal
application make an initial deposit to the Special Account in an amount upto
US$600,000 which is estimated to be an average of four months of foreign
exchange expenditure. The amount of the deposit could be changed later by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank in order to meet project needs.
The Bank would replenish the Special Account as requested upon receipt and
approval of the Borrower's withdrawal application evidencing that
expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the loan. The
Government would request the replenishment of the Special Account from time
to time through submitting Applications for Withdrawal [Form 1903, and Forms
lA (revised), IC (revised)). A replenishment request would normally be sent
to the Bank when 33% of the funds have been disbursed. During negotiations,
assurances were received that the Government would open a Special Account in
US dollars in the Central Bank of Oman or in a commercial bank in Omen
acceptable to the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
[para. 7.02 (f)]1.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.19      The MOB would keep separate accounts for project expenditures in
accordance with internationally acceptable accounting procedures. The
accounts, including the Special Account (para. 4.18 above) would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit
report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the
Goveinment's fiscal year. The audit reports would include auditor's
opinions of the methods used in compiling statements of expenditure,
maintaining the accounts, their accuracy, the relevance of the supporting
documents, their eligibility for financing in term of the project's legal
agreement and the standards of record-keeping.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01      Project preparation is well advanced.  The project proposal was
prepared by the MOH with the assistance of consultants financed by UNDP and
ODA. The execution of the project would be supervised by the MOB staff that
prepared it. The Director of Statistics, Planning and Follow-up, who headed
the preparatory team, has been appointed Project Coordinator, and the
:ecruitment of the additional key staff and consultants needed for
implementing the first year project activities is under way. Terms of



- 23 -
reference for these positions were agreed upon during appraisal.  An offer
has been made to a suitable candidate for the position of Deputy Project
Coordinator.
5.02      Project activities designed to increase MOH's institutional
capabilities, and the related institutional adjustments, cost estimates,
implementation schedules, and staffing, training, technical assistance and
equipment needs were agreed upon during appraisal. Agreement was also
reached during appraisal on: (a) the principles on which the basic health
care delivery service (BHCDS) would be organized in the Batinah region; (b)
the package of services, staffing norms, the schedule of accommodations, and
equipment lists for each facility in the region; (c) the civil works needed
to complete the health infrastructure in the region; and (d) the location of
new facilities.
5.03      The acquisition of sites poses no problem, since all land is
government owned. Final designs and construction drawings for new health
facilities would be completed according to a schedule that provides for
timely Bank reviews and completion of bidding documents to permit bidding
for construction to begin as soon as the loan becomes effective. Surveys of
selected sites for civil works have been prepared. A condition of loan
effectiveness would be that the MOH submit to the Bank proof of acquisition
of sites, final constri?ction drawings, and bidding documents for all civil
works [para 7.01 (b)].
B. Organization and Management
5.04      The Ministry of Health would be the executing agency for the
project. The Undersecretary of the MOH would have overall responsibility
for project execution. The project has been designed so that it can be
executed by the existing departments of the MOB, without creating a special
project implementation unit, although a Project Coordinator, responsible to
the Undersecretary, would be maintained throughout project implementation.
The Coordinator would ensure that project-related activities are well
coordinated, and would assist and advise those responsible for particular
project components.
5.05      Because the Project Coordinator is expected to be a senior officer
of the MOR who is not expected to relinquish his position, a full-time
Deputy Project Coordinator, an administrator/accountant, and a bilingual
secretary would be appointed to assist the Coordinator. The Deputy would be
responsible for day-to-day project coordination, and would coordinate the
preparation of periodic work plans, budgets, and reports, and the
implementation of project-related training and technical assistance.
5.06       Although procurement, accounting, and disbursement would be
handled by the MOB departments under which they normally fall, the Project
Coordinator would oversee these activities. A staff member of the Health
Facilities Planning Unit of the DSPF would be assigned part-time (30X) to
supervise the civil works. The project would provide a part-time (30X)



- 24 -
procurement specialist who vould work with the Directorate of General
Services in the purchase of equipment.
5.07      The Undersecretary would establish an Advisory Committee to
monitor the progress of the project and to help to coordinate its
compouents. All administrators of project components would be members of
the Committee. The Coordinator would act as Secretary. A condition of loan
effectiveness would be that the MOE would have appointed the Advisory
Committee, the Project Coordinator and the Deputy Project Coordinator [para
7.01 (c)l.
ProjecL Budgets
5.08      Budgets foi investment and recurrent costs would be requested and
authorized through normal procedures under the Five Year Plan and the annual
budget procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance. When authorized,
the funds and other resources required for implementation would be allocated
by the Minister of Health under normal budgetary procedures to the various
Directorates and the BRHO, and eacb Director and the RHO would exercise
spending autbority in conformity with normal MOF procedures. The Director
of Finance would provide the Project Coordinator with information on actual
spending and commitments against budgets. Funds for the estimated project
cost and positions for all incremental staff to be hired during 1987 would
be provided in the 1987 MOR budget.  During negotast ons, assurances were
received that funds for the estimated project cost and positions for all
incremerital staff to be hired in each project year would be provided in the
corresponding MOB budgets [para 7.02 (g)].
Staff in. Technical Assistance and FellowshiDs
5.09      The Project Coordinator would coordinate the engagement of staff
and consultants and the implementation of the fellowship progiam. Directors
and Section Heads would be responsible for selecting staff and consultants.
During negotiations assurances were received that the Government would
appoint and employ the project staff and consultants with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the agreed
staffing and technical assistance plans, and the biring of consultants would
be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated August
1981 [para. 7.02 (h)].
5.10      The Health Services and Manpower Development Planning Section
would consolidate and monitor the staff development programs agreed upon
during appraisal to prepare Omani trainees to take over most of the new
tegular positious created by the project. In coordination with the
administrators of the project components, the Section would prepare a
detailed fellowship program for each academic year. During negotiations
assurances were received that detailed plans for staff development,
including a detailed program of fellowships for the next academic year,
would be submitted for Bank review by January 31 of each year [para. 7.02
(i)l.



- 25 -
would be submitted for Bank review by January 31 of each year [para. 7.02
C. Monitoring. Rei,orting and Evaluation
5.11       The Project Coordinator would be responsible for monito ing the
progress of the project. Monitoring would be based on detailed annual work
plans shoving the activities to be carried out by the units supported by the
project. The work plans would also include programs for: (a) the
procurement of civil works, materials, equipment, vehicles and services; (b)
staffing; (c) fellowships; (d) local training; and (e) technical assistance.
During negotiations, assurances were received that the Government would
prepare and review with the Bank, by August 31 of each year, detailed annual
work plans, and the corresponding budgetary applications for the following
calendar year [para. 7.02 (j)].
5.12      Progress reports would be prepared twice a year by the Director of
each component and consolidated by the Coordinator. The progress reports
woald relate actual progress to the project implementation schedule (Annex
2, Table 1) and the annual work plans, and would include information on the
reoolution of issues raised in previous reports or new issues raised by
senior MOH officers, the Advisory Committee, or the Bank. In addition, the
reports would draw attention to issues which require resolution and would
include tables showing: (a) the status of key project indicators; and (b)
expenditures and commitments for each project component and category of
expenditure (see Annex 3, Table 2). The reports would be reviewed by the
Advisory Committee and sent to the Bank by the Project Coordinator with an
appendix including: (a) the Advisory Committee's recommendations; (b)
follow-up actions to be taken by the MOB and the agencies to resolve pending
issues; and (c) actions/clearances requested from the Bank. During
negotiations, assurances were received from the Government that it would
submit to the Bank progress reports (as desc ibed in para. 5.12) not later
than 60 days after the end of the period covered by each report [para. 7.02
(k)].
5.13      Given the limited knowledge of present health status and health
service coverage, the monitoring and evaluation of the health services
development components would at fiist be based mainly on compaiisons of
actual with projected values of input and process indicators. The project
would provide resources to carry out a baseline study on health status and
use of health service providers and follow-up studies in Batinah which would
permit the monitoring of progress towards meeting service targets listed in
para. 3.03. Detailed design and implementation of the baseline study would
be the responsibility of staff to be appointed to the BRNO, with assistance
from staff at the Directorate of Statistics, Planning and Follow-up. During
negotiations, assurances were received that a baseline study in Batinah
would be carried out at the beginning of p oject implementation. Terms of
reference for the study would be submitted to the Bank for review by April
30, 1988; the findings and Government's proposed follow-up actions would be
discussed with the Bank by October 31, 1988 [paza. 7.02 (1)1.



- 26 -
5.14      By strengthening the health and financial information systems, the
project would create in the MOR a capacity for monitoring and evaluating
project activities in terms also of outputs and their impact on health
status and the efficiency of the MOB. By the completion of the project,
this capacity should be being applied not only to the project, but to all
MOH operations.
5.15      Progres's towards strengthening MOE planning and management
capacity would be measured wi.th reference to the timetable (see Annex 2,
Table 1) for achieving the specific objectives listed in para 3.04, and
would be described in the progress reports.
5.16      In addition, a mid-project evaluation would be made during the
third project year. Progress in establishing the institutional structures,
staffing and training, in introducing the operational systems and produciag
the projected plans, reports and services would be reviewed and their impact
would be evaluated. The mid-project evaluation would provide a basis for
adjusting project activities as needed to meet project objectives, and for
planning the extension of the BHCDS to the whole country during the Five
Year Plan period (1991-1995). During negotiations, assurances were received
from the Government that it would carry out a mid-project evaluation during
the third year of project implementation. Terms of reference for the
evaluation would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 31, 1989;
the findings and recommendations, together with the Government's proposals
for an action plan to rectify identified constraints to project objectives
would be discussed with the Bank by December 31, 1990. The Government shall
implement the action plan according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank
[para. 7.04 (m)].
5.17      A final evaluation, following similar procedures to the ones
described for the mid-project evaluation, would be carried out on completion
of the project and would be used in preparing the Project Completion Report.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The project would yield three main benefits.  First, a reduction
in mortality and morbidity, particularly among poor people in rural areas,
and infants, children and women of childbearing age, would result from the
expanded coverage and the improvement of the quality the of basic health
care system. It would also be partly due to an increase in people's
awareness of ways of improving their health and nutrition brought about by
intensified health promotion activities. Second. an easing of the demands
of the health sector for public resources would result from: (a) the greater
efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery brought about by an
improved referral system and health services; (b) from improved investment
planning and use of resources for operation because of improved gathering
and processing of epidemiological, service and financial information and the



- 27 -
cost containment and cost recovery measures.  Third. a reduction of
deDendence on exoatriate labor would result from the establishment of
regional training of programs. In addition, the project would develop MOE's
institutional capacity to expand the cost-effective BUCDS throughout Oman.
B. Risks
6.02      The Government bas made a firm commitment to provide adequate
budgetary resources and all project components ave included in the MOB
budget under the Third Five Year Plan (1986-90). The principal risk relates
to the fact that the reorganization and expansion of health services would,
at least in the initjal phase, make for considerabie demands on the
management skills and adaptability of MOH staff, and call for a sustained
commitment on their part. However, participation in project preparation and
appraisal has given MOH staff an understanding of the project's potential
for achieving the country's health objectives in the most cost-effective
way. Moreover, the high priority of the project s health objectives and the
understanding of the project's potential for improving efficiency and
effectiveness in the sector together with the impact of the project's
institution-building and training components should deepen this
understanding and increase MOR capability to implement it. The project
provides for the establishment of a strong regional management for the new
basic health care delivery system and for its monitoring.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) the MOH would have appointed the regional health officer and would
have selected the manpower develoment, health education and health
information system officers with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank [para. 3.061;
(b) the MOR would have submitted to the Bank proof of acquisition of
sites, final construction drawings, and bidding documents for all civi]
works [para 5.031; and
(c) the MOB would have appointed the Advisory Committee, the Project
Coordinator and the Deputy Project Cooidinator [para. 5.07].
7.02      During negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the MOB shall have in place by March 31, 1990, the institutional
structure which combines curative and preventive care to manage the basic
health care del-very system [para. 3.131.
(b) the programs and curricula for the assistant and registered nurse
courses, would be completed and available for Bank review by December 31,
1988, and pre-service training would stait by SeptembeL 1989 [para. 3.161;



- 28 -
(c) a health attitudes, behaviors and beliefs survey would be carried
out at the beginning of project implementation. Terms of reference for the
study would be submitted to the Bank for review not later than April 30,
1988; the findings and Government's proposed follow-up actions would be
discussed with the Bank by Octobet 31, 1988 [para. 3.19];
(d) a plan for the nationwide implementation of the BRCDS during the
next five-year plan, including a manpower development program and phased
staffing plan would be completed and be ready for Bank review by March 31,
1990 [para. 3.27];
(e) terms of reference for a study on sector financing, including
alternative cost recovery measures would be submitted to the Bank for review
by June 30, 1988; the study would be completed by June 30, 1989; and the
Government would by October 31, 1989, review with the Bank the findings and
recommendations of such study, and the measures proposed by the Government
to be taken by January 1990, on the basis of such recommendations [para.
3.27];
(f) the Government would open a Special Account in US dollars in the
Central Bank of Oman or in a commercial bank in Oman acceptable to the Bank
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank [paia. 4.181;
(g) funds for the estimated project cost and positions foi all
incremental staff to be hired in each project year would be provided in the
corresponding MOB budgets [para 5.08];
(h) the Government would appoint and employ the project staff and
consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactoiy to the Bank and
in accordance with the agreed staffing and technical assistance plans, and
the hiring of consultants would be in accordance with the Zank's Guidelines
fo, the Use of Consultants by World Bank Boriovers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency, dated August 1981 [para. 5.09];
(i) detai]ed plans for staff development, including a detailed program
of fellowships for the next academic year, would be submitted for Bank
review by January 31 of each year [para. 5.10];
(j) the Government would prepare and review with the Bank, by August
31 of each year, detailed annual work plans, and the corresponding budgetary
applications for the following calendar year [paia. 5.111;
(k) it would submit to the Bank progress reports (as described in
para. 5.12) not later than 60 days aftei the end of the period covered by
each report [para. 5.121;
(1) a baseLne study in Batinah would be carried out at the beginning
of project implementation. Terms of reference for the study would be
submitted to the Bank for review by April 30, 1988; the findings and



- 29 -
Government's proposed follow-up actions would be discussed with the Bank by
October 31, 1988 [para. 5.131, and
(m) it would carry out a mid-project evaluation during the third year
of project implementation. Terms of reference for the evaluation would be
submitted to the Bank for review by December 31, 1989; the findings and
recommendations, together witb the Government's proposals for an action plan
to rectify identified constraints to project objectives would be discussed
with the Bank by December 31, 1990. The Govervment shall implement the
action plan according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank [para. 5.161.
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$13.3 million equivalent on
standard terms to the Government of the Sultanate of Oman.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 1: COMPARATIVE INDICATORS
I     I
* neu         I4         I      I     OIL      DMR L
INDICA1MS           OOURS    COUTnE5           a N |        C       OUURntIES
amDBS BAIIXWAL HR0DU=T                260        1,950   16,490 1     11,250        11,430
I     I
nwlc:                                     ~~~~~~~~~I   I
Crude Birth Rate (1984)                29           30   I  451           42           14
CdrueDeath Rate (1984)                 11            8   I  141            8            9
Total Fertility Rate (1984)           3.9          4.0   I 6.8 |         6.9          1.8
I     l
Life Epetancy at Birth (1984)          60           65   I  531           62           76
Infant )brtality Rate (1984)           72           56   | 110 I          65            9
Pbpulatin per Physician (1981)      5,375        1,374  11,580 1       1,408          554
Pbpulatin per Anrse (1981)          3,920          975   I 710 I         573          177
Q{:                                       ~~~~~~~~~~I  I
Total No. Enrolled in PriEry                             I 
School s    of AgeGrouw  (1981)     91           99   1  83 |          75          102
ND. Erolled in Scnidy Scxool                             I 
as % ofAge Grxu   (1983)            31           55       281          42           85
SWKE: lWbrld Deyelopmnt Report, 1986, swept that Wen's health indicators wre
taken frm the Amal Statistical Rport, 1984, Ministry of Health,
aultante of QOn.



- 31 - 
Tab le 2
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 2:  MORTALITY & MORBIDITY BY GROUP OP DISEASES, 1984*
(Statistics on Patients in MOH Facilities)
MORBIDITY
WATHS          IeATn  CsD NEW CAS
DISEASES             N l=       Z        1IH=     X       NUN        Z
1. Diseases of the Circulatory
System                           473  22.15      6,309   4.08       19,236   0.47
2. Infectious & Parasitic u'seases    424  19.86    Z6,904  18.67     706,610  17.35
3. Perinatal t,rbidity & Mrtality    319  14.94       963   0.62          -       -
4. External Caises - Nature
of Injury                         197   9.23    12,506   8.08      235,536   5.7&
5. Diseses of Respiratory System    184   8.62    20,110  12.99   1,172,040  28.79
6. Neoplam                          144   6.74      1,148   0.74          537   0.01
7. CaReaital Agmulies                79   3.70        548   0.35          155    -
8. Diseases of Digestive System      77   3.61      7,081   4.57      356,847   8.76
9. Diseases of Nerns System
& Ssoe Organs                     67   3.14      4,224   2.73      414,079  10.17
10. kixocrine, Nutritioal
& Metabolic Diseses               56   2.62      1,776   1.15       64,695   1.59
11. Diseses of Gemito-Urinary
System                            44   2.06      8,930   5.77       47,815   1.17
12. Seility & Other
Ill-defined Ccmiticms             40   1.87      7,239   4.68      408,805  10.04
13. Diseases of Blood
& Blood Forming Organs            16   0.75      2,533   1.64       68,396   1.68
14. Pregnancy, Childbirth
6 Pueperinm.                       8   0.37    46,692  30.16        16,265   0.40
15. Diseases of Skin
& Subcamems Tissue                 4   0.19       2,733   1.77     300,960   7.39
16. Kutal Disorders                    2   0.09      1,225   0.79        3,774   0.09
17. Diseses of samloskeletal
System   Comective Tissue          1   0.05       1,868   1.21     255,861   6.28
TOTAL                2,135    100   154,789    100   4,071,611      100
S=M: Azual Statistical Report, 1984, Miistry of Health, Sultamate of Oxin



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
SULTANATE 0 OKA
HEALTH PROJECT
b2FF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3  MAIN CAUSES FOR CHILD MORTALITY IN HOSPITALIZED POPULATION, 1984
DEATHS
DISEASES                         lNUMBER      2
1.  Immaturity                                            237       22
2.  Enteritis & Other Diarrbeal Diseases                  129       12
3.  Pueumonias                                            109       10
4.  Septiceemia                                            91        9
5.  Congenital Diseases                                    79        7
6.  Measles                                                76        7
7.  Other Causes                                          335       32
Total                            1,056     100
SOURCE: Annual Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health, Sultanate of
Oman



- 33 -
Tabl 4
aounm c an
mw           nT
DISA                       1NW CA               ()
1. hcute Respiraory Infection                   353,989            14
2. &nteritis & Other Diamal Dises               193,672            7
3. Inf    toy Dhasus of the Eye                 125,869             5
4. Malaria                                      123,340             5
5. Di;4ases of Teetb & 8upportizg Stucture      117,556            5
6. Erchitis, %piqysm  & Astli                    96,196            4
7. Uypertrophy of TIsils & Maoids                95,579            4
8. Infectioms of Skn & SxubaoTus  8iaie           4, 129            3
9. Gastritis & D4,dmnitis                        77,273            3
10. Laceratio & (pm wband                         46,092            2
11. Other                                      1,290,796           50
-IOAL                     2,604,491           100
1. Acute G  trosteritis  Diarrhe                138,867             9
2. Diseuse of Skn & Mcatmocous Tisae            133,913            9
3. Malria                                       101,979             7
4. Conjunctivitis                               100,092             7
5. Epyaptrio Pain                                89,763            6
6. Acute Tooeillitis                             81,570             6
7. Injuries                                      79,126             5
8. Diseaes of Teeth & supportizg Structures      50,587             3
9. Nutritiwsl Deficimcies                        47,614             3
10. Discharging Ear                               43,689             3
11. Other                                        600,210            41
7IUAL                     1,467,410           1OD
S==C: Anmml Statistical Report, 1984, Muistry of Hbltb,
9ultmate of oi



- 34 -
Table 5
SULTANATE OF OXAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 5: HEALTH PERSONNEL EMPLOYED BY MOR AND OTHER HEALTH PROVIDERS, 1984
P E R S O N N I L 3 Y P R O V I D E R
NURSING
DOCTORS       DENTISTS       PHARMACISTS    PEnsxL
ORGANIZATION         X    TOTAL      X    TOTAL      X    TOTAL      X    TOTAL
Ministry of
Health            60.3  572       36.5    23      12.2   180      83.3  1,753
(Z of Omavis)       (8.4)           (30.4)          (11.1)          (11.8)
Other Government
Departments        8.8   84       19.0    12      10.0    15       4.3     90
Oman Petroleum
Dev. Co. &
Private Sector   30.9  293        44.5    28      77.8   115      12.4    261
TOTAL              100.0  949      100.0    63    100.0   148    100.0  2,104
SOURCE: Annual Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health, Sultanate of
Oman



- 35 -
Table 6
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6:  PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDED BY MINISTRY OF HEALTH
AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS, 1984
DISPENSARY           HOSPITALS
TOTAL
ORGANIZATION        NUMBER      BEDS      NUMBER       BEDS      BEDS
Ministry of Health        74         -          40 *     2,587    2,587
Armed Forces
Medical Services    27        167           2         110       277
Royal Omani Police         2        10           1          50        60
Oman Petroleum
Development Co.       7        14           1          22       36
TOTAL          110        191         44        2,769    2,960
* In addition to 15 hospitals,, th,e category includes 12 health centers,
9 mini-Health Centers, and 4 mini-Maternity Centers.
SOURCE: Annual Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health, Sultanate of
Oman



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Table 7
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HUELTU PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 7:  MINISTRY OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
BY REGION, 1984
CURATIVE                         PREVENTIVE
M¢NI      mom1               PUSIC    PIBJC    B E D S
Z Im'AL .H1U1N   HALTH   1STuIMT   DIMW-   HUMH   HEALT
REIM6  PORATI0W          (M    CWc CaN CRUM    BMM                    CO(XNOU   UNIrS    Ura      
Capital Area      2D          6      -         -          -          3        -         2     989  38
Al-Ibhira          7          2      -           1          2        5          1       2     170   7
Al-bItish         31          2        2        2           1       12          1       9     292  11
Interior          13          2        1        2        -          10          2       4     290  11
Esten             22          2        6        3         -         19        -        16     436  17
Southern           5          1      -          1         -         24          1       5     342  13
NDrthern           2        -          3       -            1        1        -         2      78   3
IU?hL         100        15        12        9          4       74          5      40    2587 100
S(IL: knnal Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health, 9ulta-ate of am
* Misaion Estimte



- 37 -
Table 8
SULTAATE 01 OMAN
RULTR PROJECT
STAll APPRAISAL RLPORT
Table 8:  MOE AND CENTRAL GO             CRNT AD CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(MILLION OMANI RIALS)
muIms  (7 Eu-"             -A GDVEIM
-RR     CAPAL                     CAPTAL
EMCmf5-  UL-             maw-   EFU-                      RATIOS  (1)
YAR  DnlE  DMU   TUL    DMVE   DMLE    ML
(1)    (2)    (3)        (4)      (5)    (6)        1/4      2/5      3/8
1974    5.0    6.8   11.8        186.6  142.9   329.5        2.68     4.76     3.58
1975    6.8    7.6    14.4       322.5  173.0   495.5        2.11     4.39     2.91
1976    9.0    7.8   16.8        385.9  195.1   581.0        2.33     4.00     2.89
1977    10.9    2.2   13.1       388.4  145.9    534.3       2.81    1.51      2.45
1978    12.1    3.8   15.9       437.5   123.0   560.5       2.77    3.09      2.84
1979    14.4    3.3   17.7       457.3  193.1   650.4        3.15    1.71      2.72
1980    19.1    4.1    23.2      678.3   246.7   925.0       2.82     1.66     2.51
1981    27.2    5.9   33.1       856.9   317.4  1,174.3      3.17     1.86     2.82
1982    33.7    6.2   39.9       970.2   395.2  1,365.4      3.47     1.57     2.92
1983    35.5   12.2   47.7   1,111.3   377.0  1,488.3        3.19     3.24     3.20
1984    40.5   21.8   62.3    1,235.4  464.7  1,700.1        3.28     4.69     3.66
1985    47.3   25.9   73.2    1,3U3.9   533.7  1,877.6       3.52    4.85      3.90
1986*   58.0   30.0   88.0   1,271.0   547.0  1,818.0        4.56     5.48     4.84
* Planned with estimated exchange ratea 1 R.0. - US$ 2.89
SOMiCE: Anousl Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health,  akltmnte of Om;
Statistical Yesbosk, 1983, Demo ipt Qumcil, Tciki&Al Se.iltwriat, 11takate of Oman



-38- -
Tab le 9
8ULTAXNTZ 01 ONAN
NMLU PROJECT
STAll APPRAISAL IUORT
Tabe  :  POPMATION PROJECTIONS (WITS POSITIVE NET
MIGATILON TEROUGI TR& TMA 2000)
PARAlTZU                         $In
Cme UfakU
t9 9S                           470.1                 4
1995-3000                       45*                   27.9
010-l013                        32.5                  19.3
cgs" Sab la"e
1900-1943                       1.4                   14.1
I199-10                         124.3                  7.4
1010-209$                        8.0                   5.4
tags" UsnaUsy Rt
19W 96                         134.3                 109.3
1993-106M                      102.4                 57.4
10104015                4~~~~1.7             15.5
1910                             0.98                 0.§8
2000                             1.9                  1.8
1020                             3.3                  2.4
0e4eeecr lasts (2)
19g0                            87                   St
2000                            90.5                 47.8
2020                            70.9                 4.0
feele ?     u         15.49
19 s         00*               211                  212
1000            b              415                  421
2030                           81                   442
ht""as  ia 0.14 *e '
ot Ge $ws (000'.)
Igo              ,             431                  431
000                            a1l                  454
2010                          123                   6S
VeomLauias 1555.s
1980                           2.1                    1.8
1910                             2.4                2.45
t000                             2.03                1.47
0m                                1.4   '  
SR: Spontaneous Fertility Reduction
IR: Rapid Fertility Reduction
Sgure: Population, H"lth and Nutrition Sector Miorandus (Report No. 5313-041)



~ ~~~~~up--  -----"-------"-"-"-"---------t    
---~ ~ -----                  "-    -----------r            
______ ----     ____ ----  -- ____ -------    ---    ____ ---"---------r__    
--       _ ----     ____ -----   -----------  ---  ---  ---- -~------~------~- r---¢ S!   
---  ---------    ~ ~~~ ~~~~---               -----------r------r
--------     -----------------------     ---     ---     ----     --~~~~---    --------- -- ¢            z
--------                                                                                     ---I g ---
-----------       ------------------r   
- - - - - -  - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -- --   - - - - - - -I
-                                            ------------r-                           I -
-----------------                                     -    - ---           ----       -----r
--i- ----                              E
________  ____________                               _      ____--------w---------------    ---------------
-----------------r--mm
------------------------    --- ---- ----------------^ 
------  ---------------------------------r    -|* 
---------------------------------------  ----------------t- 
------------------------- ---------------T---



I  I~~~~~~~~~01L                        RII     
I: a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
U... .                   --     ---------
________________________________________________ -           -- --  -to
~~~~    ~0
__W__N __  F_______          _________   _   _____t    
-----                                               -     - -------
=====  == === =========== ================== = =======_ _= ----
---------  -----    -------------r---    
---- ---- ---- ---   ---   --- -------------r       
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FN
W      " "                                     -------------r- g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------   --   --    ------
MN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
r *-------------------__ ---- ---- -------------r--
-------  -----------  ---- ----  -------------'=-                              
-- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- ----- -------------- r-- 
----------------------------------------------------r--                      t



~ -----~------ ---        --~-- -------~---a -----  ---                 -    ---------- F--ac
0X                      i   g i          I                           I I                   0[||,{1
- -   -  -     -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      
~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------ou
- -- -- -------------   -------    -                          ---- - - -- ---g -- -- - - - - 
------     --     -- --         ---I                    
_=_====_====== -=                      ------------ -  ====== -= -   - - -  - -                            
- - - -  - -   - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -- - -  - -   - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - -                 
|  ~       ~~~~~ H       I'd 
-F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N
r-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
to                                        L                             taI 
==  == -=    == -      ---    --- - ====------====----==                     ----     ----      -    -==  - =============  ==
-   -   -   -   -   -   -                    - - -                                                                       "           
U~~                                        F
00~~~~~~~U0
---  --  ---  --   ---               -------------- ---------------------== = = = = =                      =
---------- - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  - -
t--                     ---------------------- -----------------------I 
F---~~~~~~~------------
t-- -- --- -- ----------------------------------------------11                                                                                  1
-- :    :1          1 __                                                                    F: ___________________    _=---F.EL-I-- -I
r-         -  --    --  ------------------------------------------r 
--- -- -----------------------------------------------------I
--- -- -----------------------------------------------------
…--  --                                                                                                   L
L  - -_       _-_-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 1 of 4
SULTAKATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3: STAFFING PROGRAM
mm
FCRUM  faxm         MMin          t mw as            a FJI
*
MK&ET -
Project Coo iaor                               1                              -
DPty                                           1        /87      w            -
Mduiatrator/Accobw¢t                           1       7/87       r-
Se5tay (3ili)                                 1       5/87                   -
pro>ximt - civil udcs (302)                    1       t        6/809         -
-  aipt  (3M2)                      1       1/88     1/89 9
LAiatat Dizectr                                1       7/87      P              1
3W?nw (W S U  Di lmu
Pqiami Hoeth Office
iqal  Rauth Offim                              1       4/87      P              1
Tecmiral Offiw                                 1       4/87      P              1
VAWw  Dwe,e1" Off icw                          1       1/86      P              1
Halth Igxatg Offie                             1       1/88      P              1
Sm Infth    8mtl   yam Offiew                  1       1/88      P              1
AAi-trAtiw Officer                             1       4/87      P              1
Flnrnme Pa19                                   1       4/87      P              1
aq2portln SX ei                                1       4/87      P              1
c1swpist                                       1       4/87      P              1
Dri                                            1       4/87      P              1
kminm                                          4       8/87     3-
Secretary                                      1       4/87      P              1
Heheqimi Dirsd?a
Uirqiml Dirstcs                                4       7/87      P              4
Smith Cates
-e tAE 34
Sitor Asistat Mime-Own" Ca                     1      7/89       P              1
ftor Eqisten         Pre-uvle Causes           1       7/89      P              1
* Di cohm .ini tte las 4a  at diich tie poitimn is  acte to be filin. To GVedift
project iqplatic, the i  will try to fill the positi   at a  arlie date, ad
threfre pwvisim fw this heo be  =de in the can estime. Taise cumtapwta
etriat poaitiaa %         t iate' catrat epire.
E: Eiatiix; P: Pent; 33: Rzd of Project



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 2 of 4
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3: STAFFING PROGRAM
RI  aV SEawn   PIYDE
AFDM
*
ulth i&cati  Rectim
eictimi Hlad                                   1        E         P              1
- bptriste                                 1       1/88     12/90
°am                                      1       1/91      r
-btriste                                 1       1/88     12/90
-;ai                                     1       1/91      P
liutrat                                        1                  P              1
Callig   r                                     1        E         P              1
Sii-azlnapctor                                 1        B         P              1
projectiit                                     1        B         P              1
C1k                                            1        E         P              1
Drivers                                        2       1/88       P              1
Tralnee /Ca rpa                                2       1/88     12/90
Ilniatzy of Twafntiom
scripwiten                                     1       1/88     12/90
PAS BEV           & mm     81  n           O )
B & Hp thit
faitPLh       (Sect8A  ha)
- Naptriae                                   1       1/88     6/92
-oi                                        1       7/92      P              1
Halth l    I  Plrn
- banifte                                    1       1/88     6/91           -
-o"¢i                                      1       7/91      P              1
Ainimtrative Amuiat-t                          1       1/88       P              1
Office A"aistt                                 2       1/88       P              2
Clc                                            1       1/88       P              1
Driy.,                                         1       1/88       P              1
* Tis colxm ao  the  tat  date at uAich the positim is ae d  to be filled. To pegdite
project implmumtatim, the MME will try to fill thes positios at a awlier date, and
tbefore provion for this hb beo  sde in the cost estiite. Ttae  pm     rtapwts
eptriste positiazau l   itriastes' a trct aWire.
1: istkg; P: Pent; EN: Ba of Project



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 3 of 4
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3: STAFFING PROGRAM
.
PffiQ CV So=W   omvmi
POSm   R cQmINwr                NM=            Ml! me mU :n PJ
Health Facilities Plamig Unit
Bealth Facilities PI
-  ptri.ate                                   1       7/88      6/92
-(ai                                          1       7/92      P               1
gineer                                          I        B         P               1
Quontity &Aveorr                                1                  P               1
Callig1pqhe/1per                                1                  P               1
Adinistrative Asistat                            1       E         P               1
Office hAsi'tut                                 3        5         P               1
Clk                                             1                  P               1
Driver                                          I                  P               1
Trtiese./mwtarts
Halth PIr                                       1        1/8      6/92            -
Bitbh )AyNin P1WB                               1        1/88     6/91            -
Hlth Facilitie Plas                             1        7/88     6/92            -
UFLU!I DU3       81LllR (Dwr)
Section lad
-  watriate                                 1       1/88      6/92           -
-  0                                      1       7/92       P              1
Secretary                                       1       1/88       P               1
Adinistrtive Assistat                            1       7/88      P               1
C1ek'pit                                        1        7/88      P               1
Elinatia & Heves unit
- mqmtriate                                   1       188       6/91           _
- Owai                                        1       7/91      P               1
statiaticims
- iptrite                                     2       1/88      6/91          -
-mi                                         2       7/91       P              2
Statistial CIlek                                2        7/88      P               2
Office Asiat                                    1        7/88      P               1
C1ek1pistp                                       1       7/88      P               1
Driver                                           1       7/88      P               1
* Mai colm ohm the latest date at tAich the pwitim is  peted to be filled. To  pedite
project iW14mltid0, the MR Will try to fill these poDitios at e  mrli; date, ad
throre provision for this hasbu    de in the c'st estiste. Trtinee _meyrats
astriate position. hd  apatriates' <trct eapire.
F: kistiug; P: Pent; SP: 1s of Project



- 45 -
Table 3
Page 4 of 4
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3S STAFFING PROGRAM
im   w suvics        xvawnui;
ATM
P IOm 6 Imr                        -       ur D         D  DA,    lpox
Doa Collectixm  Data Procesin whit
Binstatisticim
astriate                                      1         E        6/92
=-;i                                          1       7/92       P               1
Statisticians                                     3         1         P               3
Statistical CleLiw                                2         1         P               2
Office Asistants                                  3         1         p               3
fraimer/Npervisorm,
- -atriate                                     2        7/88      6/91           -
-OmnDi                                        2       7/91       P               2
Driver                                            1        7/88       P               1
Traimees/cLw{ta
Health Infocn.tim  Syatm                          3        7/87      6/91           -
Statisticias                                      2        1/88      6/91
Tainers/Supezviwnrs                               2        1/88      6/91           -
FDWlMlIL PIAIIN   & bWAGri  (Directorate of Finoce)
Section Had                                       1        7/87       P               1
Accoixat Sa"ervisors                               1       7/87       P               1
Account Assistaits                                4        7/87       P               4
M}inliztrative Assistant                           1       7/87       P               1
Secrtay                                           1        7/87       P               1
Driver                                            1        7187       P               1
Advisor                                            1       7/87      7/92           -
* This COlUmn BsbCW the latest date at iich thd positim is apected to be filled. To expsdite
project izq1mnatig, the KR will try to fill thus poeitims at an  rli  date, xd
therefore pwvsim for this bs beo ade in the cost estim.. Trai   csaterprtp   aiam
expatriate positiims O    catriates' ctactt spire.
NOTE: Ihe Deput Project Coordinator, the advior in FM.  1  11 etriates in positiam
not listed as penent (P) we inc"ed in the tec1iwical asstace  catery of
epeditures.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3 - A
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3 - A: STAFFING PLAN FOR HEALTH CENTERS IN EATINAB - SUMMARY (1)
NUm CF POSMnCU
DWL
TIEL                 SATING DM
LEIGNICNI                PRWIET    EKSLt      1/1188 711/89
DDctora                                24         18        0       6
Medical Assistants                     2D          2        4      14
Nurses                                 89         52         0     37
Scbool Health Visitors                 18          9        0       9
Iray Tecimicians                        4          1         0      3
Xray Assistants                         5          0         4      1
Laboratory Teciciamns                   5          2        0       3
Laboratory Assistants                   8          0        4       4
Assistant Pbrtmists/Diespesers          12          2        4      6
Sanitary Inspectors                    10          4        0       6
Sanitary ASSiStants                    34         20        4      10
Office Assistants                       5          2        0       3
Clerks                                 16          8         0      8
Maintaiance Technicians                 4          1         0      3
Orderlies                              77         49         0     28
Drivers                                50         30         0     20
Cleaners                               24         15        4       5
ktcbzei                                34         22         0     12
TOTALS                      439        237        24    178
(1) See Table 3-B for nxrbers by health center.



- 47 -
ANNEX2
TabLe 3 - B
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3 - B: BATINAH REGION - STAFFING PLAN BY HEALTH CENTER
WALTH C8ER C A                                          WIETH colwIA S
AS        W.A.                                  A.L      b    IL A  ". I
CATBMES              STAFFlDS  S5     $A     9s   1WM    TOTIL                   LhA        MSWFANi Ki*  SU    MOTL
MM6       -            -                        STAFFL    -               -                    -A
(24   SI  E A  E  A  E A E A E          A T        tNS    EA  EA   E A  E A E A   E A  T
tFctw-s                    3   8-2   1 21 2  1            11213             IF1         1       1     1     1        0  5
Picast   sta s             2   2          2     2     2   26  8             In    I         1     1      1     2  0 6  6
kavs                      15 19        5 10  2 133  6  p929  5S             33          3       3     3     ? 3 19 3 22
S(orA HgttId Vsitorf       2?             2     2  11   358                 I   1       1      1      1            4 0  4
X-Om Tecmicam              I   I          I     I      1134                 -000
*-a  Arsista's             1                                  0             1       1       1           1    1    1055
ta*b etr*ivim              1   2          1     1      1   235              -                                         0 0
Lab ssistts                1              1     1      1   033              1       1       1      1     1     1055
Ant',,Rcistu/Disp.         2   2          2     2      1   25? 7                    1       1      1           1  1055
Sit.ry L*ntors             2              2     2     2   4610              -                                         0 0
Sanitary Assisrits         4   6       3122  13  12 61                      2  11    11  11  1   1  2 1 6   5 11
OfficAssistans             1   2          i     1      1   235              -                                      0 0  0
Clefs                      3   8          3     3     2   8816                                                     0 0  0
obiritr.x*iettroici#.      I   I          I     1      t   13'                                                     00 0 
Oderits                   11 14        4747   32  25641                     3   3       3       3     3     6    18 0 18
olrfwo                     4  11          4     4  31   U 9Z                3 3         3       3     3           12 0 12
Clewrs                     22          2     2      11   718 a              I       I   1       I I  I 1 t2 3  6 7 13
WaLhmr)                    2   6       2     2      2     ¶2012             2   2       2       2     2      2    10 0 10
T-OAL.S                   So  9D      I? 40  1344 15 26 135 1O2m            20  15 6  15 6 15 6 15 6 2D 12 1036  16
WAI CamR C
_OTA.L AL
1 Wool    V.A.  LWU- V.IL         AL                 cUmn
CATEIES                            HlLI K   IIT  EM  JDLA#      WA 1Q   itA
slA Si     --
MM       EAF     A     E A  EAE A   EA  E A T    E  A I
NAIstC4.                tIf *            1     t      1      I1         2 4 6    t8  624
pIpLlA5stu s             1       1             1      1      1      1  0 6 6        2 18  20
irws                     22             2      2     2      22         4 8 12    52 40  92
S Ai *Htth      It       1   1           1     1      ¶      1   1      2 4 6      9  918
XAay lecnia                                                             0 00        1  3 4
X-Ray Assigtwts                                                         0 00        0     5S
L*b Tftricitg                                                           00    0     2  3   5
LJb Assitarils                                                          0 0 0       0       S8
Asst. Pht*vecists/DiAs                                                  0 0 0       2 10  12
Sa.otftr, Ira tto                                                       0 0 0       *  610
Smvtfry AscistmAs        I               1     t      I      1   1      24 6       20 15  35
Otfice A& 'stats         -                                               0 0        2  3   5
(ter*$                                                                  00    0     8  8 16
birdt,w e Tectrtciu                                                     00    0     1  3   4
(4xtr1hes                3   3           3     3      3      3   3      6 12 18    49 28  77
tni2rs                   7               2     2      2      7   2      4 812    30 17 4?
Ct(,5s¶I                                              I t    1   1      2 4 6    15 12  2?
VatcOr                   7  2               2      2  7             2  0 2 t2    221234
1tflL                   14  11 3        14    14    14      14  11322 628 86        22064W
E: Ltitirg
A: &itiItyu
- S.srtirg Dgte 1i1/88 lcr hulith centors r, S5W, Lift. At Ktrr re, Wm9l' "i O Uw4.
- Startirg atr 7/t189 for &It cthkr Leters.
T: totaL
*f%res ir themf cvlNts ccrr,un1 to MtanI   rftq.,1ta.o S. Ctrirng Ctn sucfIC LtMa  0Gr?    iC NaO
(Timfftc4agitl (cli t1iI ET Ititt "1ll #* ti rjirz.



- 48 -
AINX 2
Table 4
SULTAJIATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4: FELLOWSHIPS PROGRAM
Run           PROJBCT YEARS
(w                             70T~~~~~~~~~UAL
SURT AM                MIJ1   D1 I      2    U3    3T 4    35 0 5    /)
HFA=  M V M   UKY WYn
Basic Health Ca,e De.Ury Srvice                                                100
Health Services                       4   24      24     24     24       0      96
Study 1fws                            4    1       2      1      0      0        4
ifrainig                                                                         4
Study Tour                            4    2       0      2      0      0        4
Health Pti*'m                                                                   48
Audio-Viual                           1   12      12      0      0      0       24
ntaevimir & Teehin  Sdlls             1   12      12      0      0      0       24
S1IRHUflING PIABII  & 1WW3WE
Health Sevies & 1_mr Plamirg                                                    75
Helth Facilities Plmir                1    0       0     12     12      0       24
Health S8vim Plauins                  1   12      12      0      0      0       24
Health }_aw  PlamID                   1    0      12     12      0       0      24
THelth Plamix                         1    0       3      0      0       0       3
Fimcial Plamir & lomgmt                                                         22
Fizicial I   _muint                  1    2       0      0      0       0       2
Coat Accoautig                        1    4      12      4      0       0      20
Health Infotiu                                                                  96
Health lnfonutim                      2    0       0     24      24      0      48
Statistics                            4   12      12     12     12       0      48
TOTAL                                                              345



- 49 -
AM2
Table 5
SULTANATE 0? OAMN
RIALTH PROJSCT
8Th? APPRAISL REPORT
Table,5: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGAM*
Nm  (w HU400S 10 3 FNM~
Nam            PROJECT  YEARS
Cr            --              ---           AL
tCHPUNIW           W==US IR I 1           32    M3    lll4   IR 5  (MM)
HFAL7H SEWICES DEVWILDM
BaBic Health Care Delivery Services                                              7
Menagement Specialist                  1    3      2       2      0      0       7
Remnnal Training                                                                14
Training Specialist                    1    6      6      2       0      0      14
Health Protimn                                                                  12
Attitude & Belief urey                 1    3      0       0      0      0       3
Audience Research                      1    0       3      3      3      0       9
s      n1R~flR413 PIANDI & M 9V'1
Health Services & Mpwr PlUming                                                   7
Health Plamer                          1    3      0       2      0      2       7
Health Informtinn                                                               20
Health Inforztion Systemw Spec.        1    3      0       2      0      2       7
&rvey Specialist                       1    3      0       2      0      2       7
Trainer of Trainers/Supervisor         1    0       6      0      0      0       6
Financial Plaming & )insgut                                                     21
couputer/System Spec.                  1    2      6       2      2      1      13
eusltait/Org.  Pew                     1    0      0       0      4      4       8
T O TAL                                                             8
* Only sxrt-teim ccmultsnto. Th techiical sssistance prora alsO includ
expatriates om lkg-tezm cmtracts v4u are listed in the Staffing Pxp  (Table 3).
ibet of them will fill staff positims mtil incwbut  zmis wlote their tnining.



- 50 -
Table 6
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6: LOCAL TRAINING PROGRAMS
NU1M  (F CLASSS/SIARS
PAICIPANIS             PER PRJT YMA
On=US       PER
SUJKET               IDUWIIN      ORSE    TYR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4   YR 5    rAL
REAMTh SEFVICES DE'E5MFT
Regimal Training
Batinah RDHS Health Staff (See details in Table 6-A)
- Irservice                      6 days           15      4       8      8       8      8       36
- Induction                      6 days           15      1       0      7       0      0        8
Pre-Service Training
- Assistant Nurses              2 years           25      0       1      2       3      3        9
-RegistGrd Nurses               4 years*          10      0       0      1       2      2        5
Health Protic
Ccumzicaticn Skills:
- for Health Wxkerc              3 days           15     20      20     20      20     20      100
- for Ccwmmity LeadersAWikrs    I day             10      0      10     10      10     10       40
SIIIIGr MR       PUIAt AN  1UM
HIelth Plaming                   6 days           10      1       2      2       2      2        9
Data Collection                  6 days           10      1       2      2       2      2        9
Use of Data for Paming & Mit    6 days            10      1       2      2       2      2        9
Finumiail Decisimi-iskig in
Public Sector                6 days           10      0       1       1      1       0       3
CDst Accuting                  6 days           10      0       1      2       2       0       5
* A"istant nurees entering the course for reisterd nurses vill require only 2 yews of additimal training.



- 51 -
ANNE 2
Table 6 - A
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6   A:  IN-SERVICE TRAINING OF BATINAH RDHS STAFF
NUfR OF TRtUM   AND AMA F MAnING
Recycling                                   BIiuction
Health
Staff Catgories                 Total     Theretical   linkel   Practical  Mswgenxt Education
DDCtors                           24           x          x           -          x         x           6
MHdic  Alssistants                20           x          x           -          x         x           18
urkwm                             89           x          x           -          x         x          37
Scwol Ealth Visitors              18           x          x           -         x          x           9
Xray Tecblicims                    4           x          -           x          -                     3
ray Assistants                     5           x          _           x          -          -          5
Assistant Phmauists/Dispensers    12           x          -           x          -          -          10
ldaoratory Tedmickis               5           x          -           s         -          -           3
laboratoryAssistmts                8           x          -           x          -         -           8
Sanitary Inspectos                10           x          -           x          -         x           6
Saitary Assistants                34           x          -           x         -          x          14
Orderlies                         77          16*         -          16*         -         x           -
X - Total
* Project will suport trainirg of 2M of total amber of orderlies whD are epeted to hew
the ecesmay basic e&cation.
ARMA CF  ITUNE        CaRicuui oaXM
Thoretical          - Principls and pratice of treabt;
- Patient carend mugemet;
- Metbadoly of diaWsiig;
- Procesem of referral;
- Primciples of ccxamity health and outreach care.
Clinical and Practical   - Client _mKgmt in a clinic;
- Tecinical aspects of care;
- )mnegumt of specific cases;
- tostetrical and rioo-tal _egint;
- Institutimal care in practice;
- Camity health care;
- Mdical tecmology aspects of clinical care and _wgaemt;
- Jaboratory teciiqes;
- Radiolgy.
tVugfflent  - Principles of AMninistratinm;
- 9eyioa and umitorirg.
Health E&icatica      - Cmication skills;
- Use of hbelth education anterials;
- Use of a,dio-vimjal equipzat.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
SULTANATE OF OMAI
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND
BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE (000's R.O.)
"TN EVICES 31W331T
ESTAIlISHINS ESTAILIUNINS                  NW PLMINB mS                           COnttrimnc.es
NMS 111      EOJIW.    STESIWUiNS           lWEIIN1        PfiECI               ----
"TIMI        73U1IllS   NE4LTN 1TioN        CAPlAIY        iWIAEIINT   Total      I   Momt
1 IHEST1Nt COSTS
A. CIVIL UM  M  AOITECI     FEE                           2,243.3                             -                -           -  2p249.3  30.0   24.9
t. EWIFElNT                                                 370.9            -             17.2             636         11.1    462.8  10.0   46.3
C. FUINITtE                                                 213.4                                             I t 1s       -    220.2  10.0   22.0
0- YHICLES                                                  145.9            -             23.3              32.7        6.8    206.6  10.0   20 9
E. NAVTERI.S                                                    -                          41.5               5.2        1.2      47.7  10.0    4.8
F TECMICAL ASSISTANCE
LONS - TERN COTT                                             -            -            233.7             643.0      207.3  1.0S4.0   5.0   54.2
INlT - TM3  ChUTANT                                       25.*6        51               44.3             157.5          -    279.2   5.0   14.0
b-'Total tECIICL ASSISTANCE                                  25.6         S1.0            273.0            301.3       207.3  14364.0   5.0   63.2
6. FONISuPS                                                  S4.5          3.8             43.2            132.4           -    323.9   5.0   16.4
1. LI  . TUAINING6 M  SE4IISS                                   -        475.9            122.5             66.0           -    6.4.4   0.0    0.0
Total I5WSTET COSTS                                          3,104.4        531.5            530.7           1,153.0      226.4  5,546.0   7.3  403.5
II. ETISEKT costs
A. WMARIES OF INOWTML STAff                              2,919.7            -             54.8             716h0          -  3t6904   0.0    0.0
3. WICLE  No Emma"E    RATIOMS AN NAIINTEiM                151.1            -              3.9             39.8           -    194.8   0.0    0.0
C. WAS   mS 19 5                                           747.0            -              2.9              8.0           -    757.9   0.0    0.0
3. OTeIER ECIIt COStS                                      135.3            -                -             36.0           -    171.3   0.0    0.0
i1dl  CU         COSTS                                       353.6              -             61.6             7.8            -  4t815.0   0.0    0.0
TOtl am IE COSTS                                              7,030.1        531,5            5923            1,952.8      224.4  10361.0   3.9  403.5
tihical Couttn  Iin                                          304.4          2.6             24.5              59.5       12.3    403.5   0.0    0.0
Prie Contortaif                                              715.3         62.6             33.              182.1       13.4   1 012.1   1.7   17.3
Ttol PAE?t COSTS                                              8.077.7        596.3            65.6            2,194.3      252.1  11.776.7   3.6  420.S
#3flbflfl                           ------fl    nfnfgnSLflfl=ltf.t..- ----------  ===.  nfl. t42flt
Fotvs  Exclhm                                              3,204.1        250.0            429.1           I.O48.3      201.0  5.132.4   5.8  296.4
jNwvr 149 1987 10:05



SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 2: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS BY YEAR, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(IN R.O. AND US$)
ToWs Itwirif Cwir is                                   l4als lciiird tw irffi
Bitt '0310)(13 16
UW7M s"ln9w  MAMt IMwIM IM/12 Ym I  19 37 19W16 lWn  I,Im VnWIm  m19912 Totl
= -                  -5 _3   -  zm    W~m2~   ~z  zzazmzu
a. tiu.m  inn       W I
I. EStTII      S MM EU IN 3AT0                       1,171.9  2,301*.   1.l5.3  1,413#4  1442*1  w477*7   3,4.9  7,65.5  3,09.1  3,71.1  3,745.6 20t31.2
2. ESTLJM       WnW IMI                                 not1     al.    161.6    161.3    172.3   56.3          9.0    163.9   411.7    413.3    446.3 1,W.3
3. SMlU        hATE PUTIW                              175.9    10.6    14.1       95.0      50,9   AM. 6     456.9    436.0   426.9   24f.l    132.3 1.72.t
Si-Toa * fKLAE I CEJS *      IMEI                       1.3I5.   3.113.6  1495*2   19.6  1,5.l 9,330*2   3,MM.3  6W73   3.33*7  4,336*7  432M.7 249234.3
3.51, siliNIS U  "AU       m I     KIU  CIUSl11           362.4    531.6    473.1    4263    4W.5 219.3          941.3  1v3W7  1,226.7  193.1   1W631 596994
C. mom _T   IT                                             7933     42.2     430       43.7     05.0   252*1     203.3    1I3.6    111.6    113.I    116.9    54.t
Ttoa PELT   1e326.6  3,43*4  2,011*2  2,134.2  2,17.2 11776.7   4.744.5  9t57.   5M2240  5w5434  5,4993 13.3038
mmammM--  =       -_am -              mm mm             am_ mzin .mc ginag
Jm     14 19W  I@:oS
FE>w



SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3:  PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(IN R.O. AND US$)
Tot2lS Including Continswies                            Totals Including Contirmncies
(O(MAl RIAL  o0o0                                           (US$ '000)
1987/1988 1988/1989 198911990 190/191 1991,'1992 Total   198'7/1988 18/1989 1M8910 1990/991 1991/1992  total
1. INWSTIElNT COSTS
A. CIVIL WMR AND ACItECTURAL FEES                        882.4  1,691.2         -        -         - 2,573.6   22M.0  4s392,.8           -                  - 6-684,8
D. E1IPIENT                                               64.6    420.7      43.0        -         -   528.2      167.7  1,092.6    111,7                   - 1.372,0
C. FULWITtE                                                1.0    225.7      25.3        -         -   252.0        2.6    5B6.3      65.B        -         -   o54.6
D. VEHICLES                                               46.3    167.7      19.1      2.3       2.3   237,8      120.3    435.7      49.7      5.9       o.1   617.7
E. NATERIALS                                              20.6      5.4      11.6       1.'7     5.7    55.1       53.6     14.2      30.0     30,4      14.9   143.1
F. TECWICAL ASSISTANCE
LOG - TERN CONSULTANT                                 237.7    324.7    273.1    204.3    165.0  1,204.8       617.3    843.3    709.5    530.7    428.6  39129.4
SH0Ri - TEin CONSULTANT                                86.3      68.2     78.0      20.9     55.7   309.2      224.2    177.2    202.7      54.3    144.9   903.2
Sub-Total TECHIIICAL ASSISTANCE                          324.0    m.9    351.2    225.2    220.8  1,514.1         841*5  14020*5    912.1    585.0    573,4 39932.6
6, FELLOUSNIPS                                            57.5    106.2    121.3       76.4        -   361.4      149.3    275.9    315.1    198.4          -   938.6
H, LOCAL TFAIN16 AND SEIIINMRS                            40.0      9.1    180.2    210.0    214.9   744.2        103.8    257.5    468.1    545.5    558.0  19933.0
Total IN!JESTNENt COSTS                                  1I436,3  39109.0    751.7    525.6    443.7 6s266,4   3,730.8  8,075.3  1952.6  1,365.3  1,152.5 16,276.4
11. RECItMT COSTS
At SALARIES OF INCREATAL STAFF                          375.2    485.8    922.1  1,224.1  1,277.6  4,284.7       974.4  1,261.9  24395.0  3,179.5  3P318.3 11,129.2
8. MICLE AND E9JII'ET OPATITONS AN NATEIWE                6.3     45.8      52.2     53.6      55.4   213.3       16.4    118.9    135.6    139.2    144.0   554.1
C. DISlS AM  SUPPLIES                                     1,4      2.5    238,7    282.0    289.3   813*9          3.6      6,4    620.0    732.6    751.3 2,114.0
P. OTHER RECIARENT COSTS                                  7.4     44.3      46,5     48.8      51.3  I8.3        19.2    115.1    120.8    126,    133.2   515.1
Total RECIIRENT COSTS                                       390.3    578.4  1,259.5  1.606.6  1t,673.5 5,510.3   1,013.7  1,502.2  3,271.4  4,178.1  49346.9 14,312.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        1,826.6  3,687.4  29011.2  2,134.2  2,117.2 11,776.7   4,744.5  9,577.6  5,224.0  59543.4  5499.3 30,598.8
Janars 14. 1987  10:03



SULTANATE OF OVAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4: BREAKDOWN OF SUMMAY ACCOUNTS BY BASE COST, AND
CONTINGENCIES AND BY FOREIGN AIND LOCAL  (US$'OOO)
Fhwstcel rof,thwn.'ie          trace Lutmneeincie
Bse costs                                      ---------------                                         Ir Jl. Cmt.
Local                         Local                   ----------------------------------
Local (Excl. Duties I         for. (xcl. Duties I          For- (Excl. bties I                      Local (Excl. Dutles I
For. Exd.   Taws)    Toe    Total   Exch, Toens) Tans  total   Exch. tas)  Taxes  Total   For. Cxci.   Taxes)    taxCs   Total
1. IlESTIElt COStS
A. ciLn 33 M  OMTECTIL  FEES                            3,505.4     2.336.?        - 5,942.3  350.5  233-7       -  594.2  106.3  149.9        -  259.2    3,964.3       2.720-5       - 69684.6
P. EtlIFIEIIT                                           1.61.t        120.2       - 1t202.1  106.2  12.0         -  120.2  39.8    9.8         -   49.6    1.229.9         14.0        - 1,372.0
C. FIUNITE                                                514.7        S7.2       -   57t.9  51.5   5.           -   57.2  20.4    5.1         -   25.6       536.6         4,0        -   656.6
8. WHYCLES                                                461.5        54.2       -   531.7  468.   5.4          -   54.2  17.5    4.3         -   21.8       553.8         63.9       -   617.7
E. MATERI.LS                                              112.0        12.4       -   124.5  11.2   1.2          -   12.4   4.7    1.5         -    6.2       127.?         15.2       -   143.1
F. TEOIIC.L ASSISTM:E
LOIS - TEMM CrnIITMit                                2254.2         63.5       - 2917.?7 112.7  28.2          -    t409  100.9   70,0       -  170.8    2.467.7         61.7        - 3,129.4
SHRT - TEOM r TIULTIOT                                 50.1       145.0       -   725.1  29.0   7.3          -   36.3  24.9   16.?         -   41.8       634.0       1.2         -   33.2
S.t-lotal TICICA.L *5SIStllCC                           29834.3       706.6       - 3.542.8  141.7  35.4         -  177.1  125.8   86.9        -  212.7    39101.7         6.7         - 34134
6. FELLmUUs                                               763.6        55.4        -   654.2  38.4   4.3         -   42.7  32.0    9.7         -   41.7        6-2          994        -    3-6
a. LhNuL TR*0IMls m  SENi1                                699.3     1 A035.4       - 1,725.       -     -        -       -  37.7  169.6        -  207.3        72860     1,205.1        - Im.l$O
Total INlStiT CUStS                                        9.994.      4,410.4       - 14,405.2 750.3 297.6         - 11046.1 36.2  436.9         -  923,1   11,131.4       5,145.1       - 1h276.4
11-. EUIt CWSTS
A. SK*IES I  ICECWIT. STlfF                                  -     9,55.5         - 9*O5S        -     -        -       -     - 14543.7       - IsS43.7          -    11429.2         - liq29*.2
P. VEKOLf      ENflt WME*Tl=  MS NAIUTEAINIE             303.6       202.4        -   56.1       -      - -     -           16.2   31.?       -   46.1        319.8       234.3       -   554.1
C. MM  an  WFLIES                                      1.771.7       396.9        - 1,966.6      -      -       -       - 108.0   37.3         -  145.4    1,379.6        234.2       - 2#114..
3. UERt  KCE11     COSTS                                     -       446.3        -   446.3      -     -                -     -   66.3        -   66.3           -        515.1       -   515 m            Z
_____                                                                          ______ ______  __ __ _O'3
TotUl RECOEENt COSTS                                       2.075.4    10431.2        - 12,506.5      -     -        -      - 124.2 1.481.6        - 1.605,9    2419.6    12.112.6         - 14M3U2.4       * jM
total                                                      12,070.2    14.841.S       - 26911.8  750.3 297-e         -1,048,1  510.4 2411.15       - 242.0   139331.0    17M.27.           - 30536.8        g  ,
Jeuse  14. I67  1982



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
SULTANATE OF OMAN
NEALTI PROJECT
STAf APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 5:  ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(uss'NILLION)
m_als                  I _ RB
FI9CM   - '  ---
SElN Iso=           AMJ8   X              MUM   X               A1WS  %
FY 1968
Dexiber 31, 1987        0.8       6           0.8       6          12.5      94
june 30, 1988           0.8       6           1.6      12          11.7      88
FY 1989
DxAxber 31, 1988        0.9       7           2.5      19          10.8      81
June 30, 1989           1.1       8           3.6      27           9.7      73
FT 1990
Dieceuber 31, 1989      1.2       9           4.8      36           8.5      64
June 30, 1990           1.2       9           6.0      45           7.3      55
7! 1991
Jeuiw   31, 1990        1.2       9           7.2      54           6.1      46
Jne 30,1991             1.0       8           8.2      62           5.1      38
FY 1992
Deuiiber 31, 1991       1,1       8           9.3      70           4.0      30
Je 30, 1992             1.1       8          10.4      78           2.9      22
FY 1993
D)ecmer 31, 1992        0.9       7          11.3      85           2.0      15
June30, 1993            0.9       7          12.2      92           1.1       8
FY 1994
December31, 1993        0.7       5          12.9      97           0.4       3
Jme 30, 1994            0.4       3          13.3    100            0.0       0
aDOSIN DJMS: WAY 31, 1994



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page-Trof 7
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE BASIC HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEK (BECDS)
Overview
1.  To reduce the high rates of mortal-ty and morbidity that prevail among
the population outside of the main urban clusters, the NOR has developed the
BHCDS as a multi level, integrated, regionalized system to efficiently
provide the population with an effective package of basic health care
services.  Implementation of the BHCDS would eliminate inefficiencies and
sbortcomings of the existing, separate, curative and preventive delivery
systems and would improve service delivery by enhancing programming,
supervision and monitoring, and improving outreach and  eferral programs.
The BHCDS would be supported by overall strengthening of planning and
management at HOB headquarters, enhancement of health promotion activities,
and regional implementat:on of training programs.
Current Situation
2.   Delivery of health services at the district levels in Oman is fairly
widespread, although a health sector review (1984) estimated that 202 of the
total population is underserved. As described in the sector report, disease
patterns do not show much variation in the predominance of infectious
diseases. The distribution of services follows fairly the same pattern in
the different regions with two parallel networks of facilities under the
Directorates of Curative and of Preventive Services. The network under the
direction of Curative Services consists of physical facilities ranging from
small health units or dispensaries without beds to mini-health centers,
mini-maternity centers and large health centers vith bed capacities from 6
to 36 beds. The network under the Directorate of Preventive Services
consists mainly of public health units and compounds. Most curative and
preventive services are unstructured and delivered in one or other or a
combination of these facilities. In some areas an informal, integrative
activity occurs in which curative and preventive services are combined.
Although MOE has shown some intention towards integrating the two parallel
systems of health delivery, the realization of this has been made difficult
by the persistence of two separate lines of authority from central
headquarters to curative and preventive management at the district level.
3.   The delivery system also includes mobile services which combine
curative and preventive care and some health promotional service to outreach
areas from static facilities. Host of the "outreach" villages are widely
dispersed and difficult to reach due to difficult terrain. NOR is of the
opinion that the quality of outreach service needs considerable improvement.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
Repionalization and Integration of Basic Health Services
4.   The MOH has developed a model for the integration and decentralization
of basic curative and preventive services into a new Basic Health Care
Delivery System. All existing health facilities in a region - currently
under either the Directorate of Curative Services or the Directorate of
Preventive Services - would be incorporated into a Regional Health Office
(RHO). In order to provide at headquarters for unified management and
supervision of the RHOs, a Directorate General of Health Services or a
Directorate of Basic Health Services would be established. The basic
features of the design of a reference regional model are shown in Attachment
A.
5.   The BEC Module.  A region would be divided into subregions, and in each
subregion, the network of (existing and additional) facilities, including
staff and services, would be organized in a modular design with three main
types of health centers -- "A", "B", and "C" -- based on population
catcbment, population at risk, disease prevalence, type of services,
accessibility, relationship to other health facilities and acceptability.
Other features such as relationship to community facilities (e.g., schools,
community centers), availability of water, electricity and land would be
also considered in locating new RC.
6.   RHO Management.  The overall management of a RHO would be undertaken by
the office of the Regional Health Officei who would be assisted by a deputy
and other professional and support staff.1 A Subregional Health Officer
will be directly responsible for the subregional BHCDS. Technical support
and supervision of the network of centers at the "A", "B" and "C" levels
will be provided by the subregional director assisted by professional staff
in the network and with back-up from the RHO.
7.   Services at BHCDS Level.  All centers will provide basic medical
treatment, preventive and promotive services. Degree of sophistication
improves at each level from "C" through "A" health centers:
(a) Health Center "C" serves up to 5,000 people and has no beds.
Services comprise medical treatment, expanded program of immunization (EPI),
oral rehydration therapy (ORT), maternal and child health (MCH) including
child spacing on request, school health, health and nutrition education,
environmental health and sanitation. Supervision and support of community
health workers and outreach services to isolated areas.
(b) Health Center "B" serves up to 15,000 people and has no beds. In
addition to services pTovided in a center "C", provides dental treatment, x-
rays, laboratory and pharmacy services, and screening services (chest, eye,
etc.).
1 Besides covering standard management functions, the RHO staff should
provide for professional capacity in the areas of information systems,
manpower development and health promotion.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
(c) Health Center "A" serves up to 50,000 people and has 12 to 36
beds. In addition to services provided in a center "B", provides in-patient
care, maternity deliveries and care, radiological examinations, and
ambulatory specialist services on sessional basis (such as ophthalmology,
chest, gynecology, etc.).
8.   All facilities will support services in the vertical programs of
communicable diseases control, such as onchocerciasis and malaria, as well
as national programs sucb as EFI and ORT.
9.   Outreach programs will be developed to provide services to the
inhabitants of isolated comunities who cannot go for services to the bealth
centers on a regular basis. As part of the planning for the introduction of
the BHCDS in a region, the most cost-effective outreacb program would be
selected considering the local conditions. Where the community development
program under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor (MOSAL) is
implemented, the MOB will collaborate in the training and supervision of the
village community health worker. In other areas the MOB will operate
througb its own community health workers, mobile units, home visitors or a
combination of the above to service local needs at the village level. The
outreach programs would typically provide simple and first-aid treatments
and support for programs such as EPI, ORT, NICH motivation, bealth promotion,
health and nutrition education, and generally inform the community on type
of services and Where delivered.
10. Referral System. Health center "A" will be the referral apex for the
subregional BBC module. The provision of laboratory and radiological
services, and maternal care, selected specialist and pharmacy services in
that center "A" will ensure adequate support for cases referred from "B" and
"C" centers. The regional and specialized bospitals would provide support
for referrals at higher levels. Improving the quality of care in "B" and
"C" centers will reinforce the referral process by providing continuity of
care at the subsidiary levels of returning cases that were referred to and
had been attended at hospitals or "A" center. The provision, also, of x-
rays, laboratory, pharmacy and screening services at the "B" level center
assists in meeting the needs of some patients from "C" level centers; the
same two-way referral process should be maintained. Referral f;rums have
been developed. To strengthen the referral system and facilitate its
implementation, attention should be given to: orientation of staff to the
principles of referral, developing referral protocols, ensuring that
linkages between the levels of the BHCDS are firmly established and that
there is technical support for "C", "B" and "A" facilities and the Regional
Hospital, as well as instituting an oTganized feedback process.
11. Staffina. Staffing norms for the BECDS have been established by MOH
for each center type. These are based on perceived tasks for services to be
delivered, patient demand and utilization, and a response to cultural
factors that require sex separation of patients, providers and
accommodations for some services. These norms, which were reviewed with MOB



- 60 -
ANNEX
Page 4 of 7
during appraisal and found consistent vith the service goals, are shown in
Annex 2, Table 3-A.
12.  Dgs   A drug formulary has been designed by MOB for authorized use at
each level of seivice. It has explicit guidelines and information for all
categories of clinical staff. Its application will be reinforced by staff
orientation seminars at the clinic, organized by its medical officer in
charge. Drug suDplies are regular and lotistics is satisfactory in terms of
storage, distribution and timely response to facility needs. (See also under
"Records").
13. Records and Reporting. As an integral part of the MOH health
information system (H18), each center wv11 have one of its clerical officers
o0 a nurse (where there is no clerical officer) specifically assigned to the
compilation of service statistics. Registers of patients will be carefully
maintained and regularly inspected by the head of the cente) and by
responsible personnel from regional/central offices. MOB regional health
information system officer vill provide special orientation for pertinent
health center staff in the use of reporting forms; inservice training will
also include records keeping in course content. Drug flov registers and
reporting will be maintained subjected to periodic inspections by the senior
pharmecist from the "A" ,evel facility and by the pharmacist in-charge from
the Rigional Hospital.
14.  Health centers "C" and "B" will do a preliminary analysis of clinical
data and submit both data and analysis in reporting forms to tha "A" center
once monthly. All data collected at the "A" center will receive further
analysis and processing before transmission to the RHO. Further analysis of
data will be performed by the RHO sad the HIS at headquarters and results
fed back to centers. All forms used for statistical recording, registration
and reporting would have been reviewed, tested, approved and standardized by
the HIS and the RHO to ensure that information retrieved and analyzed is
critical to progiam development and management.
Civil Woiks and Epuiyment for BHC Facilities
15.  Schedules of accommodations and lists of equipment have been developed
by MOH for each type of health center. They were reviewed during appraisal
and found consistent with the corresponding service packages and staffing
noms. Resulting area of construction and equipment costs are as follows:
Health Center       Total Area - m2                Eaui_me_t --US
A (24 beds)               1,720                 288>000
B                      400                 60,000
C                      280                 18,000
16. Jn some locations additional construction would be needed to provide
housing foi staff. Site development costs would have to be determined for
each loc3tion.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
Regional Training for 5ECDS Staff
17.  In the context of the implsentation of the BICDB the UN has decided
to provide pre- and in-service training opportunities in the regions. These
programs would meet three main objectives: (i) to support the implementation
of the BRCDS by providing health staff with the additioual skills required
by the integration of BBC services; (ii) to reduce dependence on expatriates
by developing a means to train substantially larger numbers of Omanis for
intermediate level bealtL services positions and to provide upgrade
opportunities for Omanis already in the health services; and (iii) to open
opportunities to the growing numbers of preparatory and high school
graduates for training for employment in the health sector. The fact that
the training would be provided locally will reduce costs and facilitate
participation, especially for women.
First Phase of Imulementatiol of the IECDS: The Batinch RDEC
18. The MOH has decided to begin the implementation of the UCDB in seven
wilayats (districts) of tbe region of latinah witb some 300,000 inhabitants,
as part of the bealtb project proposed for a loan from the World Bank. The
proposed project would provide the following:
o    appointment/recruitment of 1 Assistant Director of regional health
services at MOR headquarters to consolidate coumunications and
provide a unified cbain of coumand from beadquarters to the BIR0;
o    recruitment of the HRO, deputy. 3 professional and 4 support staff
of the BRH0, and of four subregional health officers;
o    recruitment of around 200 healtb center staff of vrrious
categories for new centers constructed and to bring up existing
centers to staffing norms;
o    provision of training materials, equipment aud supplies for
inservice and preservice training programs;
o    construction of: (i) building for the 5310 in Sobar; (ii) one type
"A" facility each at Sbinaq4 Wadi Al Haibi and As Suwayq; (iii) 4
type "C" tenter& at WadifHilti, Wadi Al Ahin, Libiban and Wadi Al
Jahavir;
o    upgrading of:  i) Wadi Sarami to type "I" center; (ii) Abu laqrs
to type "C" center; (iii) Al-Mashaiq to type "C" center;
o    provision of furniture, equipment and 27 vebicles for the bealth
centers in the 5R10.
Program support will result in a 35S increase in covetage mostly to
population which is unserved or underserved.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
Nationvide Iualementation of the SICDS
19. The experieoce gained in Batinah and the enhancment of training,
health promotion and planning and management capabilities of MNO would be
used fo; extending the IECDS model to the rest of the country during the
next five year plan (1991-1996).



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment A
Page 7 of 7
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE MODEL FOR THE BASIC HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM (2HCDS)
|MINISTRY OF HEALTH
|REGIONALR    SUBRE6,    SUBREG.    SUBREG.    SUBREC.    SUBREG.
SUBREGIONAL BASIC HEALTH CARE MODULE
HC "All
HC "B        HC "'B"       HC 'B") 1
HDICTR)HC BcH  HC           iCt      HC lci      HC "c"      HC "C"
HOSPIT4L~~~ UOL   MODULE    AMCDL        MOUL -----------------
RHO =Regional Health Office
HC  = Health Center



- 64 -                          ANNME 5
Page 1 of ?
SULTANATE OF OMAN
BELTII PtOJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL URPORT
SELECTED DOCU1ENTS AND DATA AVAILUBLE IN TIE PROJECT FILE
SECTION A: General Reports and Btudies on Economic Situation. Population
ad Health
1.       Statistical Year look. 1984. Developmet Council, Technical
Secretariat, Directorate General of National Statistics, Sultanate
of Oman, November 1985.
2.       The Five Year Develoumet Plan. 1976-1980.  Development Council,
Sultanate of Oman.
3.       Omn  '85. Ministry of Information, Sultanate of Oman, 1985.
4.      O2an: Facts and Figures. 1985.  Developmeut Council, Technical
Secretariat, Directorate General of National Statistics, Sultanate
of Om a, June 1986.
5.       Annual Statistical teport. 1984.  Directorate of Statistics,
Planning and Follov-up, Ministry of Health, Sultanate of Oman.
6.       Manvower Developmnt Study and Trainina Needs AssesMnt for the
Realth Sector. Cbecchi and Company, and Hunter, Harold R.
Scholarship and Training Project, Directorate General of
Scbolarships and Foreign Relations, Ministry of Education and
Youth Affairs, Sultanate of Oman.
7.       Annual Statistical Relort, 1983.  Directorate of Statistics,
Planning and Follow-up, Ministry of Realth, Sultanate of Oman.
8.       The Second Five-Year Develooment Ilan. 1981-18.  Development
Council, Sultanate of Oman.
9.       Women's Comnonent in Pastoral Co unitv Asistance and
Develoument: A Stud! of the Needs and Probims of the Harasiis
PoQulktio. United Nations, 1984. *** RESTRICTID ***
10.       Quarterly Bulletin of Nain Economic Indicatorg.  Directorate
General of National Statistics, Development Council, Technical
Secretariat, Sultanate of Oma, September 1985.
11.       Quarterly lulletin of Nain Econosic Indicators.  Directorate
General of National Statistics, Development Council, Technical
Secretariat, Sultanate of OUma, Septmber 1983.
12.       Statistical Year Ig2kL  Novmber 1983.  Development Council,
Technical Secretariat, Directorate General of National Statistics.
Vl



* -.6i5.-                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
130       Demographic and Related Socio-Economic D&ts Sheets for Countries
of the teonomic Comission for Vestern Asia. United Nations
Economic Coiission for Western Asia, Beirut, Kay 1982.
14.       The Sultanate of Owsn Today.  Apex Publishing, Sultanate of Oman,
November 1986.
15.       The Population Situation in the ECWA Region: Oman.  United Nations
Economic Comission for Western Africa, Beirut, 1981.
SECTION B: Selected Workina Papers Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
1.       Prgosal for the Basic iealth Care Delivery System. Health
Education.  aa  Resourcas Deyalopusnt. Helh  n  Madan QYJ0am,
Financial Planning und Mansiement.  Hinistry of Realth, Sultanate
of Oman, March 1, 1986.
2.       Oan= Recent BEconomic Developments and Prospects.  World Bank, July
1985.
3.       Oman Sector Megorandum.  World Bank,
4.       Oman Sector Review.  Wotld Bank, March 29, 1984.
5.       BHCDS Workina Paper.  Dr. EJward 0. Pratt (Consultant), November
3, 1986.
6.       Financial Plannina and ManalMent Working lPanr.  Tareneh Tavana
(Staff), November 3, 1986.
7.       Guidelines for Preparation of Batiash Retional Realth Services
Plnaina. Robert Wickbam (Consultant), November 10, 1986.
8.       Proiect and ReAional Mangasment of Helth Services. Robert
Wickham (Consultant), November 10, 1986.
9.       Guidelines for Implementation of Realth Information Svstems.
Robert Wickham (Consultant), November 10, 1986.
10.       Guidelines for Imalementation of Realth Services and Manpower
Plnniri. Robert Wickhbs (Consultant), November 10, 1986.



- 66 -
CHART 1
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF BHALTH
DRscroa OF
ADVtIM                      IF~~~~~~UNDER SECRETrARYI OFF=C
11111  111
B_ _
SOURCE: Annual Statistical Report, 1984, Ministry of Health, Sultanate of
0U.D



T p.T'S                                         .u' u'mm'' '' 
1         -i1                                               E
I             Ffii }1                                         5



- 68 -
CHART 3
SULTANATE OF OMAN
HEALTH PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
DIRECTORATE OF STATISTICS, PL;NNING AND FOLLOW-UP
HEALTH INFORMATION                HEALTH SERVICES AND
SECTION                       MANPOWER PLANNING
SECTION
DATA         DATA ANALYSIS          HEALTH            HEALTH
COLLECTION       AND SURVEYS         FACILITIES          SERVICES
UNIT             UNIT              PLANNING        AND MANPOWER
UNIT         DEVELOPMENT
UNIT



4
I
I
A
I



-25'              56'                                                57'                                               5B°                                                59-                             25
z.-X  |                                                                                        Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M A N 
( ;J             Abno<ro@                                                                           OMAN HEALTH PROJECT I
/ z  w                                                                                                BATINAH HEALTH REGION
U.A.E\
)                                                                                                                                    PROPROPSED BASIC HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM.
(                                                                                                                                          A      HEADQUARTERS
HOSPITAL UTILIZED BY ALL BHC MODULES;
(                                  L  0ja                                                     ~E`Osting not under proiect)
AL
SHINAS   SOI4AR    SXiA&M  SUWAIQ  SHC MODULES*
.ilti                                                                                               0                TYPE A CENTERS
AJ                                                                 0 Sohotr3  0        00                TYPE B OR C CENTERS
'l Bti,n                         oiA
_'a _                          Wod Hii Al                                                                                                         HEALTH REGION BOUNDARY
\           \         *~~~~Al Ahin   Sohum
24'                                 W~~~~~ ~~~                                                                                            ~~~~~AlI *ti   Scm    MAJOR TOWNS AND CITIES
S24°a-r  Wead   Lihiban                                                                            6      NATIONAL CAPITAL                               24t
, . ....xn   Al0 Wd                                                                                                                               _- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Shafon   Al Khboo
BA TINA H
Al Mashiq                                                                           *Solid symbols represent focilities
AISuwaiq                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~under project, open symbols represent
Wadi  Al             h       Bih                                         existing fcilities not under project
Al Jahavir        Awh          B
MUSCAT
_/,. 0    ? -  
Qyas
-   -~~~~j)N             ISAM  EP      2-2*
QATAR    AE.       r      OMA
r'  AREA
LJ.A.E.     ~MUSCAT
lb-
SAUD                                                                 0       10     2,0      3,0     401     501
AIA                                                                   L _             p                                                                                                                 I
A/B AOMAN                                                                      KILOMETERS                                                                                                     Sr
__'a7                                                                      _9_
c                                                                    570      _8                                                                                            9



