Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2807 OM
                         (Health Project)
                              between
                         SULTANATE OF OMAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 17, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2807 OM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  17,  1987,  between  SULTANATE OF OMAN
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "MOH" means the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Health or any
successor thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to thirteen
million three hundred thousand dollars ($13,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of Oman or a commercial bank  acceptable  to the Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall  be May 31, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  per  annum  above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
       (i)    "Interest Period"  means  the  six-month period com-
              mencing on each  date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
              this Agreement,  including  the  Interest  Period in
              which this Agreement is signed.
      (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
              outstanding borrowings of the  Bank drawn down after
              June 30, 1982, expressed  as a percentage per annum,
              as reasonably determined by the Bank.
     (iii)    "Semester" means the first  six months or the second
              six months of a calendar year.
Page  3
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
the MOH with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate technical, engineering,  medical, financial and admin-
istrative practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
       (i)    have the records and  accounts  referred to in para-
              graph (a) of this  Section,  including those for the
              Special Account  for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
              accordance  with   appropriate  auditing  principles
              consistently   applied,   by   independent  auditors
              acceptable to the Bank;
      (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
              case not later than six months after the end of each
              such  year,  the  report   of  such  audit  by  said
              auditors, of such scope  and  in  such detail as the
              Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (iii)    furnish to  the  Bank  such  other  information con-
              cerning said  records  and  accounts  and  the audit
              thereof as the Bank shall  from time to time reason-
              ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  4
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section and that the  report of such audit con-
              tains a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures  and  internal   controls  involved  in  their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause (i) each institution included in the Project to be
operated and  managed  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, technical and  public  health  practices, and (ii) each
such institution at all  times  to  be  staffed with qualified and
experienced administrators, medical  personnel and other competent
staff, in adequate numbers;
     (b)  cause the  buildings,  furniture  and equipment provided
under Part A (a) of the Project to be operated and maintained, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, cause all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof  to  be  made,  all  in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, technical  and public health practices;
and
     (c)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such purposes.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Project Coordinator and the Regional Health Officer,
referred to in paragraph 1 of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement, shall
have been appointed in accordance with the provisions thereof; the
Deputy Project Coordinator referred  to  in  paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 5 to this  Agreement  shall  have been appointed in accordance
with the provisions thereof and shall have assumed his duties; the
Manpower Development Officer, Health  Education Officer and Health
Information System Officer, referred  to  in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 5  to  this  Agreement,  shall  have  been  selected;  and the
Advisory Committee, referred to  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, shall have  been  appointed by the Under Secretary
of the MOH; and
     (b)  acquisition of building  sites  and preparation of final
construction drawings and  bidding  documents  for construction of
the facilities provided under Part A (a) of the Project shall have
been completed.
     Section 5.02. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  5
     Section 6.01. The Under Secretary of Financial Affairs of the
Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Economy  is  designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Economy
          P.O. Box 506
          Muscat
          Sultanate of Oman
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MALIYA                          5333 ON
               Muscat                          MALIYA
                                               Muscat
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   SULTANATE OF OMAN
                   By /s/ Ali Salim Bader Al-Hinai
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
Page  6
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                 4,000,000      60%
(2)  Equipment,                  3,800,000      100% of foreign
     Furniture,                                 expenditures,
     Vehicles,                                  100% of local
     Materials and                              expenditures
     Drugs and                                  (ex-factory
     Supplies                                   cost) or 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Technical                   3,800,000      100%
     Assistance and
     Fellowships
(4)  Local Training                700,000      40%
     and Seminars
(5)  Unallocated                 1,000,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 13,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $600,000, may
be made on  account  of  payments  made  for eligible expenditures
before that date but after December 1, 1986.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are:  (a) to reduce mortality
and morbidity,  particularly  in  the  predominantly rural Batinah
region; (b) to develop the  MOH's institutional capability to plan
and manage the health sector;  and  (c) to support the institution
building processes necessary  for  the country-wide implementation
of a more efficient and integrated health care delivery system.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Health Services Development
     Assisting the MOH to  implement  a basic health care delivery
system which integrates  delivery  and  management of curative and
preventive care and health promotion through:
     (a)  establishing a  basic  health  care  delivery  system in
Batinah with a proper  management  and  referral system as a first
phase of its nationwide  implementation, including: (i) establish-
ing a new Regional Health  Office  in Batinah to manage the health
Page  7
care delivery system in  the  region; (ii) completing the regional
health infrastructure  by  constructing  and  equipping a regional
health office building, approximately  seven new basic health care
facilities  and  upgrading   and   equipping  approximately  three
existing  basic  health  care  facilities;  and  (iii)  conducting
community visits and other  activities  to reach the population in
isolated areas and provision of mobile units;
     (b)  establishing regional training  by providing pre-service
training of approximately  100  assistant nurses and approximately
20 registered nurses and in-service training for approximately 240
health staff in Batinah and other regions; and
     (c)  strengthening  health  promotion  by:  (i) strengthening
nation-wide health education activities through training of health
staff, community  leaders  and  workers  by  the  Health Education
Section of MOH; (ii) producing health education materials and mass
media programs in coordination  with  the Ministry of Information;
and (iii) conducting surveys and evaluations.
Part B:   Institutional Development
     Supporting an institution-building process focused on improv-
ing  management  information   systems   in  health  and  finance,
improving financial planning and management, and developing health
services and manpower planning through:
     (a)  the establishment  of  a  Health  Information Section, a
Health Services  and  Manpower  Section  and  a  Follow-up Section
within the Directorate of Planning and Follow-up of the MOH;
     (b)  the establishment of a Financial Planning and Management
Section within the Directorate of Finance of the MOH; and
     (c)  the provision of  accounting,  procurement and architec-
tural assistance to the Project Coordinator to ensure that Project
activities are well coordinated.
                           *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning January 15, 1991
     through   January 15, 2002               555,000
On July 15, 2002                              535,000
_____________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
Page  8
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Oman may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     (a)  Civil work contracts for  the construction of the health
care facilities  and  office  provided  under  Part  A  (a) of the
Project shall be procured under  contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract  or items which the Bank agrees
are of specialized nature, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $800,000 may be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
     Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract, or items which the Bank agrees
are of a standard nature, up  to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison  of  price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Page  9
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract  for goods procured under
International Competitive Bidding set forth in Part A of Section I
of this Schedule 4, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accord-
ance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory  to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Project Coordinator shall be appointed by and be directly
responsible  to  the  Under   Secretary   of  the  MOH  with  such
responsibilities and powers as  may  be necessary or incidental to
the proper  execution  and  supervision  of  the  Project,  and in
particular,  shall  ensure   that   project  activities  are  well
coordinated  and  implemented  and  shall  assist  and  advise the
Director of Finance, the  Director  of  Planning and Follow-up and
the Regional Health Officer  in  carrying  out their components of
the Project.
     The  individual  whose   qualifications  and  experience  has
previously been approved by  the  Bank  shall be appointed to fill
the position of Deputy  Project  Coordinator on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
     An individual with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank shall be  appointed  to  fill the position of Regional
Health Officer, on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     The Borrower shall select individuals with qualifications and
experience satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  fill  the positions of
Page  10
Manpower Development Officer, Health  Education Officer and Health
Information  System  Officer  and  shall  appoint  the individuals
selected to the respective  positions  not  later than January 30,
1988.
     The  Advisory  Committee  shall  be  appointed  by  the Under
Secretary of the MOH to monitor the progress of the Project and to
coordinate  its  components,  and  shall  consist  of  the Project
Coordinator,  the  Deputy  Project  Coordinator,  the  Director of
Preventive  Medicine,  the  Director  of  Curative  Services,  the
Director of Education and  Training,  the Director of Finance, the
Regional Health Officer and  the  Director of Planning and Follow-
up.
     An  administrator/accountant,  a  purchasing  officer  and an
architect, all duly qualified  and experienced, shall be appointed
to monitor the  progress  of  the  Project,  no later than Septem-
ber 30, 1987.
2.   Until completion of the  Project,  the Borrower shall include
in each annual budget of the MOH amounts required to provide funds
for the estimated yearly costs of the Project.
3.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments by  August  31  of  each  year  until  completion  of the
Project, an annual work  plan  for  the Project, together with the
proposed budgetary allocations  for estimated Project expenditures
for the following year.  Such proposed budgetary allocations shall
include  amounts   required   for   creating   positions  for  all
incremental staff to be hired for such year.
4.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by November 30, 1987,  a report on the implementation of
the establishment and staffing of the Health Services and Manpower
Planning  Section,  Health   Information   Section  and  Financial
Planning  and  Management  Section  and  upgrading  of  the Health
Education Section.
5.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by April 30, 1988,  terms  of reference (a) for a survey
in Batinah on health attitudes,  behaviors  and beliefs, and (b) a
baseline study of health status  and of health service coverage in
Batinah and shall discuss with the  Bank the results of the survey
and study and the Borrower's recommendations for follow-up actions
by October 31, 1988.
6.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by January 31 of each year a plan for staff development,
including the fellowships  for  the  following  academic year, and
shall provide to the Bank for its review and comments future plans
annually thereafter not later than January 31.
7.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by May 31,  1988,  the  design  of programs to reach the
population in Batinah which has  limited access to health centers,
and  shall  implement  those  programs  according  to  a  schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.
8.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by February 28  and  August  31 of each year, semiannual
reports covering the periods ending  December  31 and June 30 pur-
suant to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements.
9.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by July 31,  1988,  supervision, monitoring and referral
procedures for the basic  health  care delivery system in Batinah,
and shall implement these procedures by October 31, 1988.
10.  The Borrower shall complete,  by  December 31, 1988, the pre-
service training programs for training of assistant nurses and for
training of registered  nurses,  agreed  between  the Bank and the
Page  11
Borrower, and shall start training by September 30, 1989.
11.  The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by June 30,  1988,  terms  of  reference  for a study on
health  sector  financing,  including  alternative  cost  recovery
measures, and shall by October  31,  1989 review with the Bank the
findings  and  recommendations  of  such  study  and  the measures
proposed by the Borrower,  to  be  taken  by  January 1990, on the
basis of such recommendations.
12.  The Borrower shall implement  the  health information and the
cost-accounting systems in MOH by June 30, 1989.
13.  The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by December  31,  1989,  terms  of  reference for a mid-
project  evaluation,  and  shall  discuss  recommendations  for an
action plan with the Bank by December 31, 1990. The Borrower shall
implement the action plan according  to a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.
14.  The Borrower shall complete,  by  March  31, 1990, a plan for
the nationwide implementation  of  the  basic health care delivery
system during the next five-year plan, including a manpower devel-
opment program and phased staffing plan.
15.  The Borrower shall complete,  by March 31, 1990, introduction
of the institutional structure in  the MOH which combines curative
and preventive  care  to  manage  the  basic  health care delivery
system.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)  and  (4)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $600,000 to be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan  Account  and deposit in the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
Page  12
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
