FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use'
Report No. 247a-HO
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
HONDURAS
December 7, 1973
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cwrrency Unit     -        Lempira (L)
US$ 1.00          -        L 2.00
L 1.00            -        US$ 0.50
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
meter (mi)             -   3.28 feet
square meter (i2)      -   10.8 square feet
kilometer (im)         -   0.62 mile
square kilometer (km2) -   0.39 square mile
hectare (ha)           -   2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS USED
CARE        -   Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CGTI        -   Center for Technical Industrial Cooperation
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
CONSUPLAN   -  Higher Econozmic Planning Council
DEARRURAL  -   Directorate of Rural Development
FAO         -   Food and Agriculture Organization
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
INFOP       -   Instituto Nacional de Formacion Profesional
(National Institute of Vocational Training)
UNAH        -  National Autonomous University of Honduras
UNESCO      -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
USAID       -  United States Agency for International
Development



HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........................  i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION  .......................................    1
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING  .........................        1
Population and the Economy  ..............                1
Human Resources Development and Absorptive
Capacity ......................................  ..0.......  2
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING  .............................    3
General ...........  3
The Formal System  ......    ...................          4
Non-Formal Education and Training  ...............        5
IVY  EDUCATION FINANCE  ..................................    6
V. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY  .....................    7
VI. THE PROJECT               ..     .      ..............   11
General  .. ...... ..........
Primary Teacher Training            . . . .12
Secondary Teacher Training   .            .13
Vocational Training .             ....                   14
Agricultural Education and Training                      16
Technical Assistance   .              .17
Evaluation of the Project                .               17
Cost of the Project.....                         .       17
Foreign Exchange Component   ....................   20
Project Recurrent Costs               ...  20
VII. IMPLEMENTATION  .............................               20
Administration .....................            ...      20
Professional Services             ...                    21
Sites   ...21
Procurement                 ... 21
Disbursement . .                                         22
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMWIENDATION  ..............   22



APPENDIX - Education and Training in Honduras
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2. Primary and Secondary Education: Enrollment by Grade,
Controlling Authority and Sex - 1972
3. Technical and Vocational Education: Enrollment and
Output - 1971-1972
4. Education Expenditure 1967 and 1972, and Projections
to 1980 by Source of Finance
5. Public Investment in Education (1967-74)
6.  Recurrent Expenditure for Education
7. Technical Assistance
8. Summary of Estimated Costs
9. Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
10. Contingencv Allowances
11. Recurrent Expenditure of Project Institutions
in 1980
12. Project Implementation Schedule
13. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
I.   Organization Chart - Ministry of Education
II.   Structure of the Formal and Hon-formal System of Education
and Training - 1972
III.   Education Pyramid - Enrollment in Public and Private
Institutions - 1972
MAP
Republic of hlonduras
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Honduras in 'larch/April 1973. The mission members were Messrs. A. Freire
(general educator), R. Hemingway (technical educator), K. Lee (economist),
F. Vergara (architect) and C. Vidalon (agricultural educator).



HONDURAS
BASIC DA(TA - 1972 /1
Population                                       2.7 million
Growith rate (1961-1972)                      3.2%
Urban                                         28%
Labor force                                   31%
Unemployment                                  8 - 10%
GDP (in market prices)                           L 1,599 million
Growth in real terms (1966 prices)(1960-70) 5%
GNP per capita in 1971 (US$)                 290
Public budget                                 21%
Literacy Rate (%)                                52
Enrollment Ratios (age group) ,
Primary (7 -13)                               81
Secondary (14 -19)                            14
Higher (20 -24)                                3
Public Education Expenditure
As % of GDP                                   3'9
As % of public expenditure                   18.2
Per capita (US$)                             11.0
Recurrent Costs per Student /2 (US$)
Primary                                       41
Secondary General /3                         187
Secondary Technical  4                       697
Secondary Teacher Training                   473
Higher                                       549
/1  Comparative Education Indicators in Annex 1.
/2  Public schools only.
/3  Includes primary teacher training.
/4  Includes agricultural education.






HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       This report appraises the Bank Group's first education project
in Honduras, for which a Loan/Credit of US$ 6.0 million is proposed (US$3.0
million would be a Bank loan and US$3.0 million an IDA credit).
(ii)      The Honduran education system has undergone rapid expansion during
the past decade. However, major weaknesses confront its future development.
There are deficiencies in education management stemming from an overcentral-
ized administrative structure; geographical imbalances in the distribution
of enrollments; shortage of qualified teachers at the primary and secondary
levels; an insufficient output of agricultural middle level manpower and
of skilled workers to meet the needs of the economy; and absence of serious
efforts to improve farmerst productivity and meet other training needs of
their families. The Government's education development strategy attaches
high priority to meeting all the above needs. Some measures for adminis-
trative reform have already been taken; phasing out of the inefficient,
small teacher training courses has begun; a new, self-financed institu-
tion has been established which will org-nize a national scheme of voca-
tional training; and construction of new school facilities with technical
and financial support from CARE and USAID will increase the percentage of
age group enrollment to 93% at the primary level and 25% at the secondary
level by 1980.
(iii)     The proposed project would complement the programs of bilateral and
multilateral agencies and would support those priority objectives of the Gov-
ernment's education and training development strategy aimed at (a) improving
the quality and relevance of primary and secondary education by alleviating
the present shortage of qualified teachers and by broadening the training of
primary teachers to include rural community leadership roles; (b) increasing
training opportunities for middle level agricultural manpower and for indus-
trial workers to meet regional needs and to upgrade the labor force; (c) es-
tablishing experimental rural training centers that would provide, in addi-
tion to farmer training, training of women in home economics and of youths
in rural development schemes and rural community leadership. Many of the
project institutions would be located outside urban centers, thus contribut-
ing to a more equitable distribution of education opportunities throughout
the country.
(iv)      Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping for:



- ii -
(i) Primary Teacher Training
- two new and expansion of tWo existing regional
primary teacher training schools;
- twelve rural application primary schools;
(ii) Secondary Teacher Training
- new facilities for the existing secondary teacher
training college;
- one application secondary school;
(iii) Vocational Training
- two vocational training centers and
one industrial training development center;
(iv) Agricultural Education and Training
- expansion of the agricultural secondary school;
- three agricultural training centers.
(b) Technical assistance:
- 23.5 man-years of specialists' services and
46 man-years of fellowships for Honduran staff.
The project institutions would provide a total of 5,080 student places, of
which 4,480 would be new;  teacher training would account for more than 50%
of the total.
(v)       The project would assist the Government in reorganizing primary
teacher training, with the present 47 courses consolidated into four eco-
nomically viable institutions (each with an enrollment capacity of 500) lo-
cated in the western, central and eastern regions and in Tegucigalpa. The
curriculum is being improved and broadened to orient the teacher training
toward the needs of the rural areas, with emphasis on multigrade teaching
and the training of teachers as community leaders. The institutions would
be staffed by selected existing teachers, who would be upgraded. Student
teachers would practice in twelve rural application primary schools annexed
to the teacher training institutions, to be provided also under the project.
The teacher training schools could graduate about 600 new teachers annually
from the regular three-year program. However, the larger average annual
teacher demands would have to be met by a flexible policy of recruitment
and short term upgrading of unemployed teachers.



- iii -
(vi)      A new secondary teacher training college (capacity of 800) would
be built at Tegucigalpa, to replace existing unsuitable and inadequate train-
ing facilities in the same city. The school would be operated on a double-
shift basis. The curriculum would be revised to introduce new areas of train-
ing, with emphasis on training teachers in teaching several related subjects,
thereby increasing the utility of teachers and producing flexibility in school
operation. An annexed application secondary school for teaching practice and
for testing and introducing new teaching techniques would also be constructed.
Annual output of the college of about 350 teachers would meel: both the demand
created by the expansion of secondary education and normal replacement needs.
(vii)     The two new vocational training centers to be constructed under
the project would enable the Government to establish a national vocational
training scheme and make possible the upgrading of 7,200 workers and the
training of about 1,200 new entrants to the work force each year, in line
with estimated manpower needs. The curricula would be based on occupational
analyses, and courses of varying duration would be offered at the two voca-
tional training centers according to needs. The proposed industrial trai>i
ing development center attached to the Teguicigalpa vocational tre.ining cen-~"
ter would plan and implement the above program. It would alse assist mall
agement of enterprises to identify their training needs.
(viii)    To meet the requirements for lower-level agricultural technicians,
the agricultural secondary school at Catacamas would be strengthened and ex-
panded under the project; the number of student places would increase from
100 to 240. The school would be completely reorganized and the curriculum
revised to include a greater share of practical courses. About 70 techni-
cians would graduate annually, of whom about 20 would be absorbed by the
extension service and the rest by other government agencies and the private
sector.
(ix)      To help improve rural living conditions, increase agricultural pro-
ductivity and achieve a more equitable income distribution, the three agricul-
tural training centers included in the project would offer courses for farmers,
homemakers and youths, with emphasis on improved farming methods, organiza-
tion of cooperatives, home management, and community leadership. The centers
would have a total of 150 trainee places. They would be experimental in na-
ture and would be evaluated with a view to nationwide expansion.
(x)       The project would include 23.5 man/years of technical assistance
and 46 man/years of fellowships. The specialists would assist the Govern-
ment in the administrative reform of education (2 man/years); implementing
the reorganization of primary teacher training and upgrading the teacher
trainers (6 man/years); implementing the national vocational training scheme
(8.5 man/years); carrying out the development program of the agricultural sec-
ondary school (6 man/years); and in reinforcing the Project Unit (1 man/year).
In addition, UNDP will finance 7 man/years of specialist services for the im-
provement of the secondary teacher training program. Under the fellowship
program local counterparts would be trained abroad.



- iv -
/xi)      The total project cost is estimated at US$ 8.66 million and the
foreign exchange component at US$ 5.0 million, or 58% of the total project
cost. The proposed Loan of US$ 3.0 million and Credit of US$ 3.0 million
wiould cover the foreign exchange costs of the project and 27% (US$ 1.0 mil-
lion) of the estimated local currency cost of US$ 3.7 million equivaler.t
and represent about 69% of the total project cost.
(xii)     A project unit would be established under the Higher Economic Plan-
ning Council 'CONSUPLAlN) for overall administration of project implementation,
liaison with the Bank/IDA, and coordination of activities with the Instituto
Nacional de Formacion Profesional (INFOP) and the Ministries of Education and
of Natural Resources. Project liaison officers would be appointed in the two
Ministries and in INFOP and they would, in cooperation with the Project Unit
3taff, be responsible for organizing within their institutions technical work
required in project implementation such as preparation of architects' briefs
and of equipment and furniture lists. Contracts for the procurement of fur-
niture and equipment and for construction (except for the twelve rural applica-
tion primary schools) would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15% of c.i.f. costs of imports or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower. Items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$ 5,000 wotld
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedures
and would not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$ 170,000 (corre-
sponding to 10% of total cost of equipment and furniture).
(xiii)    Disbursements of the Loan/Credit would be made against the foreign
expenditures on imported equipment and furniture or the ex-factory cost of
locally procured equipment and furniture, the foreign cost of specialist
services and total expenditures on fellowships, 52% of the total cost of
construction, site development, and professional services.
(xiv)     The proposed project is suitable as the basis for blend financing
consisting of an IDA Credit of US$ 3.0 million equivalent on standard terms
and a Bank Loan of US$ 3.0 million equivalent to Honduras for a period of
30 years including a 10 year grace period.



HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A UNESCO mission visited Honduras in July/August 1971 to identify
an education project suitable for Bank/IDA financing. Further discussions
with the Government took place in September 1972 and January 1973, when
agreement was reached on the items to be considered for Bank/IDA financing.
The project was prepared by the Government with UNESCO assistance and was
appraised in March/April 1973 by a Bank/IDA mission composed of Messrs. A.
Freire (general educator), R. Hemingway (technical educator), K. Lee (econ-
omist), E. Vergara (architect) and C. Vidalon (agricultural educator).
1.02      During appraisal the project was modified slightly by replacing
three large urban application primary schools with twelve smaller rural ap-
plication schools and deleting a vocational training center from the proj-
ect items.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's first education project in Honduras.
The project would support and strengthen the most critical areas identified
in the Government's education and training strategy for consolidating and im-
proving primary teacher training to include training of rural primary teachers
as community leaders and for broadening the secondary teacher training pro-
gram. The project would also promote the training of middle level agricul-
tural manpower, industrial workers and farmers through the expansion and im-
provement of an agricultural secondary school, the establishment of vocational
training centers, and of experimental rural centers that would, in addition to
farnmer training, provide courses for homemakers in home management, nutrition,
health and child care. The project includes the technical assistance required
for implementing it and for training local personnel.
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 8.66 million; about
US$ 5.0 million would be the foreign exchange component. A Loan/Credit for
US$ 6.0 million (US$ 3.0 million would be a Bank loan and US$ 3.0 million an
IDA credit), covering 69% of the total project cost, is proposed.
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Population and the Economy
2.01      The Honduran population, growing at an annual rate of 3.5% in re-
cent years, reached 2.7 million in 1972.  With half the population under 15
years of age and half of all adults illiterate, the Government is under in-
creasing pressure to expand educational opportunities. Added to this is the
problem of providing adequate education and other social services to a scat-
tered rural population at a low relevant cost. The urban population, a third
of the total, is concentrated in Tegucigalpa, the country's capital city and
industrial center, in the industrial town of San Pedro Sula and the agricul-
ture-based town of Choluteca.



- 2 -
i2e       The growth of the economy is dependent on a limited number of pri-
mary exports such as bananas ar.d coffee. Except for the large farms producing
tor export, which employ one-tenth of the 500,000 agricultural work force,
agriculture is characterized by small family farms where traditional farming
techniques are applied. Consequently, productivity is low (two-thirds of the
total labor force produces one-third of GDP) and this situation is accentuated
by a lack of qualified extension personnel. A lack of trained managers, a
shortage of skilled manpower and the absence of entrepreneurial experience
have had a restrictive impact on the growth of the manufacturing sector, which
now accounts for only 12% of GDP.
2.03      The Government's economic development strategy focuses on the di-
rectly productive sectors and emphasizes agricultural diversification. How-
ever, these objectives can be achieved only if concerted efforts are made to
correct the manpower constraints in all sectors. There is a need not only to
expand quantitatively the training opportunities for skilled workers and mid-
dle level manpower, but also to improve the quality of the training programs
for meeting the sectorial demands. In agriculture, moreover, attainment of
the Government's objectives would require systematically exposing the farmers
to a more efficient production technology and new marketing techniques.
Human Resources Development and Absorptive Capacity
2.04      The outstanding feature of the Honduran work force (830,000) is
its low level of education and training, which seriously affects productiv-
ity. Fewer than 1% have had higher education, 3% have had secondary educa-
tion, 12% primary education, and 84% no schooling at all. This situation
prevails even in the modern sector, where about 80% of the work force is not
qualified to perform assigned tasks and requires upgrading, as shown in a re-
cent survey by the Center for Technical Industrial Cooperation (CCTI). This
problem is most acute in the manufacturing and construction industries.
2.05      The lack of qualified manpower to meet the needs of the economy
results primarily from the shortage of formal and non-formal training oppor-
tunities. Although some corrective action has been taken by the Government,
the supply of trained manpower does not yet meet demand and a further expan-
sion of training opportunities is needed to correct the imbalance. At the
professional and technician levels there are still shortages of qualified
staff; as a result, 5% of the posts are filled by non-nationals. The more
pronounced shortages are among secondary school teachers and skilled and
semi-skilled workers, which have led to a cumulation of unqualified persons
on the job. In each of these areas the supply falls short of demand by more
than half. Conversely, there are areas where an oversupply situation has de-
veloped, such as in the clerical and commercial trades and primary teacher
training. In 1972 alone about 1,000 primary teachers completed their train-
ing, but only 300 were placed in teaching positions.
2.06      The prospects for employment expansion are moderate, with overall
employment expected to increase by about 3% (26,000) per year.  The majority
of the jobs would be created in the traditional sector. The modern sector's
absorption is expected to increase at an annual rate of 3.8% (11,000). Half



-3-
of the estimated manpower requirements of this sector would be generated with-
in manufacturing, especially by firms with five or more workers, while the
expansion of public services and construction would absorb most of the other
half. In the agricultural sector the Government's program to improve the
extension service for farmers would require an additional 20 extension agents
per year, which would double the existing personnel within five years, while
other agencies and the private sector's demands for middle level agricultural
personnel is estimated at about 50 per year.
2.07      The Government's human resources development strategy aims at elim-
inating manpower constraints and correcting imbalances affecting the imple-
mentation of its economic development program. In order to accomplish this,
manpower planning would be strengthened and related effectively to education
planning. The expansion of opportunities for training agricultural techni-
cians, secondary teachers and workers for industry is warranted by the es-
tablished demands. To bring about improvement in rural living conditions.
organization of courses aimed at meeting the needs of the rural family unit
would be required. For women, training in home economics is needed; for
youths, training in rural activities; and for farmers, in new production
and marketing techniques. The training of primary teachers should also be
broadened and oriented toward rural community leadership.
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
General
3.01      The Honduran education system has undergone rapid expansion during
the past decade. Enrollments between 1962 and 1972 increased annually by
about 6% in primary education, 12% in secondary education, and 15% in higher
education. Imbalances favoring urban areas have not been corrected, however,
nor has the expansion been oriented toward vocational education. Moreover,
the quality of education has not improved, due mainly to curricula which re-
main irrelevant to the country's social and economic needs, the high propor-
tion of unqualified teachers (up to 80% in secondary education), a lack of
teaching materials, and inadequate physical facilities.
3.02      The Ministry of Education (Chart I) has responsibility for policy
formulation and the control and supervision of public primary and secondary
schools and teacher training institutions. The Ministry also has control.
over the curricula and examinations of private schools. Most of the non-
formal education and training activities are under the control of other
ministries or autonomous institutions.
3.03      There is a pressing need to improve educational administration,
which suffers from overcentralization and lack of proper management proce-
dures such as duplication of services in different departments, lack of per-
sonnel policy and inadequate financial control. Coordination between the



-4-
Ministry of Education and the other agencies dealing with education and train-
ing is likewise inadequate, leading to a duplication of programs and increased
costs.
3.04      The formal and non-formal system of education and training in
Xonduras (Chart II) is described in detail in the Appendix and is summarized
below.
The Formal System
3.05      The formal education system consists of pre-primary and six years
of primary education; three years of lower secondary, followed by two or three
yeats of upper secondary education with courses in the humanities, sciences
and technical subjects; and post-secondary courses varying in length from
two to seven years.
Primary Education
3.06      Primary education is inefficient.  Enrollment (Annex 2 and Chart
III) represents 81% of the relevant age group, but wastage is high. Only a
small portion of students entering the system finish primary education; the
percentages vary from 36% in urban areas to a low 8% in rural areas. This
situation is due to the rigid examination system, irrelevant curriculum,
nonenforcement of the attendance law, and in the rural areas a large num-
ber of schools offering fewer than six grades because of the dispersed pop-
ulation and lack of teachers trained in multigrade teaching, thus prevent-
ing the rural children from continuing their education. The wastage in
primary education is evidenced by the fact that the Government has been
spending more than US$ 4 million per year (25X of recurrent expenditure
for this level) in providing schooling for about 100,000 children who
would not reach grade four, the minimum school attendance which UNESCO
est:imates as necessary to attain literacy.
Secondary Education
3.07      A prominent feature of secondary education in Honduras is the dom-
inance of the private sector, with 74% of the total enrollment of 51,000.
However, a school-building program assisted by USAID is under way that should
increase educational opportunities in the public schools for students who can-
not afford to pay a fee. Because of the lack of qualified teachers, which is
the main weakness of the education system, implementation of the revised cur-
riculum for secondary education is encountering difficulties.
3.08      Forty-seven secondary schools offer courses for training primary
school teachers. But these schools have neither the proper teaching facil-
ities nor teachers qualified in pedagogical subjects. Furthermore, total
enrollment has increased while each course has remained small, uneconomical
and difficult to supervise, with the result that too many low-quality teachers
are being graduated. There is urgent need to improve the quality and reduce
costs by consolidating the courses. In the rural primary schools, where the
need for better trained teachers to assume also community leadership roles is



-5-
greatest, there are no opportunities for supervised practice teaching, in con-
trast to the availability of urban schools for this purpose, and the program
does not allow for the much broader training required for primary teachers.
3.09      Technical and vocational education (Annex 3) is inefficienit, except
in one school receiving technical assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany. The training programs are outdated, inflexible and in need of re-
vision to meet the requirements of industry for skilled manpower. Cost per
student is high and those who enter industry require further extensive on-
the-job instruction.
3.10      About 42% of secondary enrollment is in the commercial stream (Annex
2), with output more than adequate to meet demand. The quality is poor, however,
due mainly to the lack of qualified teachers. There are no training facilities
to correct this situation.
3.11      Agricultural education is also poor.  Graduates do not meet the basic
qualitative requirements for employment by either the Government or the private
sector, and quantitatively the output is far from adequate. The country's re-
quirements for middle level agricultural manpower can be met only by revising
the curriculum, strengthening the teaching staff, and improving and expanding
the physical infrastructure of the only agricultural institution offering
training at the secondary level.
Higher Education
3.12      In addition to the National University, there are a number of higher
level institutions specializing in forestry, agriculture, social services and
teacher training (Appendix, paras. 18-22). Of these institutions, the Sec-
ondary Teacher Training College, which comes under the Ministry of Education,
is badly in need of new physical facilities to enable it to implement the ex-
panded teacher training program for meeting the demand created by the improve-
ment and expansion of secondary education. Moreover, the curriculum needs to
be revised to improve the quality of the graduates and to train them to teach
several related subjects. The Government has already obtained technical as-
sistance from the UNDP to review the curriculum, reorganize the college, and
establish new areas of teacher training such as commerce and the industrial
arts.
Non-Formal Education and Training
3.13      Training programs for artisans, skilled workers, supervisors and
managers have been organized, but are on such a small scale that they have
little impact on the economy. In the rural areas, programs are under way to
motivate and organize peasant groups for cooperatives and to train leaders
and managers for the implementation of the Agrarian Reform Law. Only about
80 farmers per year are being trained in these programs. There are also
training courses for agricultural extension agents and for farmers; these
courses are being given by only one center, established in Comayagua by the



-6-
Rural Development Office of the Ministry of Natural Resources. The center's
output averages 280 per year. Its training effort is handicapped by inade-
quate physical facilities and insufficient funds for operation. Action is
needed to correct this situation and to expand the program.
3.14      To improve the quality of the work force and provide new training
opportunities for adults and out-of-school youths, the Instituto Nacional de
Formacion Profesional (INFOP) was created in December 1972. It is preparing
a program to satisfy the large training needs of the country's expanding in-
dustrial areas and to increase worker productivity. INFOP is an autonomous
agency governed by a board of directors representing the Goverment, private
enterprises and trade unions and is financed by a 0.5% levy on public wages
and a 1% levy on wages paid by autonomous institutions (except the National
University) and private enterprises employing five or more workers or having
capital assets of US$ 10,000 or more. Although difficulties in collecting
these levies are foreseen, it is expected that the recurrent expenses of the
training programs will be met. Extensive technical and financial assistance
is required, however, to expand and accelerate implementation of a program
suited to regional needs.
IV. EDUCATION FINANCE
4.01      During 1967-72, public expenditure for education increased at a
rate higher than the total public expenditure and at more than twice the rate
of GDP growth. As a result, this expenditure now absorbs about 21% of the
total public expenditure and 3.5% of GDP (Annex 4). Nevertheless, these
figures are average for the Latin America and Caribbean region. On per
capita basis, although public expenditure for education rose substantially
from US$ 6.6 in 1967 to US$ 10.5 in 1972, it is still low when compared with
similar expenditures in other Central American and Caribbean countries.
4.02      The Central Government, through the Ministry of Education, has the
major responsibility for financing public education. The local governments,
as a legal obligation, help finance some primary school construction and main-
tenance. Most primary education is free. At the secondary level (para. 3.07),
private school fees are relatively high, at US$12-20 per month plus a US$8
annual registration fee, which restricts access to secondary education. The
Ministry of Education also provides private schools with subsidies, which
account for about 17% of central government recurrent expenditure for sec-
ondary education.  The National University is autonomous and entitled by law
to receive 2% of the national budget; this is supplemented by grants, fees
and additional government subsidies.
4.03      Recently, the Government has given greater emphasis to investment
in educational facilities and equipment. The Ministry of Education's share
of central government investment grew from 4.5% to 14% during the 1967-1973
period. About 54% of a total educational investment of US$ 18.2 million was
financed from domestic sources, and the remaining 46% from abroad (Annex 5).
From 1960 to 1969 a primary school construction program, assisted by CARE,



- 7 -
constituted the Central Government's major investment in the sector. Since
then, most capital expenditure has been directed to the construction of sec-
ondary schools, with USAID assistance (US$ 7.0 million Loan), and to a new
National University campus, with IDB financial support (US$ 2.8 million Loan).
Investments in vocational/technical education and teacher training were lim-
ited because of the low priority given until recently by the Government.
4.04      During 1967-72 recurrent expenditure for education increased at an
average annual rate of 12% (Annex 6). A major factor contributing to the
rapid growth was a 1968 law which increased teacher salaries 15% for every
five years of service and established a future increase of 15% every five
years. Teachers' salaries are by far the most important component of education
expenditure in Honduras; they account for about 97% of recurrent expenditure
in primary schools, 93% in secondary general schools, and 73% in secondary
technical schools. This leaves an inadequate proportion of expenditures for
educational materials and supplies. Teachers at secondary and higher institu-
tions receive remuneration which compares favorably with other sectors of the
economy; however, primary school teachers receive comparatively low salaries.
Unit recurrent costs (basic data) are reasonable except for secondary techni-
cal education, where they are unusually high by comparison with Latin Ameri-
can countries of similar income level; this is due mainly to low student/teacher
ratios and the high teacher salaries.
V. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
5.01      The Government's strategy for development of the education and
training system aims to meet the priority needs of the system and of the
productive sectors of the economy. The strategy has three basic elements:
(i) Correction of imbalances through the provision of
increased educational opportunities in (a) rural
areas and (b) public secondary schools;
(ii) Improvement in the quality and efficiency of the
system;
(iii) Reform of formal technical education and expansion
of non-formal vocational training to meet manpower
needs.
The Government recognizes that in order to implement this strategy the admin-
istrative/management procedures of the Ministry of Education will have to be
improved. It is proposed to regionalize the administration of education, giv-
ing the regions responsibility for management and school supervision; however,
policy-making control would remain centralized in the Ministry. Under the
proposed project, the Government would be provided with specialist services
to assist with the preparation and implementation of the proposed administra-
tive reform. UNDP/UNESCO is assisting the Government in strengthening educa-
tional planning.



-8-
Correction of Imbalances
5.02      At the primary education level, the Government is carrying out a
program of school construction aimed at raising the enrollment ratio to 93%
of the relevant age group by 1980. Construction is concentrated on provid-
ing an additional 5,000 classrooms (200,000 student places) for presently
incomplete primary schools and new schools in the rural areas. CARE is pro-
viding financial assistance for implementation of this program. School map-
ping is being undertaken to assist in the proper selection of localities for
the schools as well as in determining the size of the facilities to be con-
structed.
5.03      In secondary education, the Government plans to increase enrollments
by 11% a year, so as to reach 25% of the relevant age group by 1980. Under
the expanded program entrants to secondary education would increase from
17,000 in 1972 to 24,000 in 1980; this, however, represents a reduction in
the proportion of primary school graduates to secondary school entrants from
71% to 60% over the same period of time. About 20,000 new student places
will be provided with USAID assistance, increasing the public sector share
of enrollments to 46% by that year. Since the allocation of these places
by type of education has not been completed yet, in order to avoid worsening
further manpower imbalances (para 2.05), it will be necessary to develop
criteria for the division of the student places by streams of training
according to the economy's priority needs. This was discussed during negotia-
tions, and agreement was reached that the Government, within the second year
after the date of the Loan/Credit Agreements and every year thereafter, would
review and send to the Bank for its comments the enrollment plans and targets
at the primary and secondary education levels in order to ensure that such
plans and targets are within the Government's financial capacity and that
the objectives of improvement in the quality and efficiency of education at
these levels are achieved.
Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of the System
5.04      In order to reduce the high dropout rates (para 3.06), the Govern-
ment intends to restructure the education system at the primary and secondary
levels in modules of three years, with automatic promotion within each module.
5.05      In the rural areas, where the school population is dispersed, at-
tention would be focused on providing the full six grades of primary educa-
tion and promoting community activities. To implement this new approach,
the Government plans to reorganize and improve the training of primary school
teachers. The 47 courses in secondary schools would be terminated and con-
solidated into four economically viable institutions located in the western,
central and eastern regions of the country and in Tegucigalpa. The teacher
training curriculum is being revised and aims to introduce a better balanced
program of general and professional subjects. All trainee teachers would be
trained in the techniques and skillp related to multigrade teaching and
community work, and would gain practical experience teaching under supervisors
in a rural school. The Government has selected twelve small communities where
rural application primary schools would be established under the control of



- 9 -
the teacher training institutions. These twelve schools would provide
opportunities for the trainees to gain relevant teaching experience and
training in community leadership. The proposed project would assist the
Government in carrying out the consolidation of the teacher training courses
and in implementing this new program.
5.06      In secondary education, the Government proposes to meet the quali-
tative and quantitative teacher deficiencies by improving and broadening the
teacher training program.  These objectives cannot be accomplished in the
physically inadequate Secondary Teacher Training College (para. 3.12). Un-
suitable buildings would be replaced and adequate workshops and laboratories
provided. The training program of the college would be revised to include
modern educational techniques and new training areas in industrial arts, home
economics, commerce, and physical education. Supervised student teaching would
be carried out in an application secondary school to be constructed. The Bank/
IDA project would assist in the construction of all these new facilities, while
the UNDP technical assistance already obtained would assist the Government in
the curriculum revision. During negotiations the Government agreed to annually
review and send to the Bank for its comments the number of new trainees to be
admitted to the primary and secondary teacher training programs, taking into
consideration the number of unqualified teachers in service and the response
of unemployed teachers to the special upgrading programs, to fulfill the
Government's objectives of meeting additional teacher requirements amld quality
improvement of the teaching force in the most efficient manner.
Reform and Expansion of Technical Education and Non-Formal Training
5.07      A reform of formal technical education is being considered.  The
main features consist of rationalizing the training courses for skilled
workers, organizing industrial arts and home economics in the lower sec-
ondary cycle, and improving the technician courses. The Government has
approached the IDB with the objective of obtaining financial and techni-
cal assistance for the implementation of this reform.
5.08      In order to train new labor force entrants and upgrade others,
INFOP plans to establish vocational training centers at Tegucigalpa, San
Pedro Sula and La Ceiba, and to operate mobile units in rural areas not
served by the fixed centers. Incorporated in the Tegucigalpa Vocational
Training Center would be an Industrial Training Development Center, to be
responsible for all technical studies, program planning and supervision
throughout the country. Courses in apprentice training, accelerated train-
ing for adults, and upgrading training for employed workers would be pro-
vided in the mechanical, electrical and building trades. In addition, em-
phasis would be placed on in-plant training and on helping employers to
organize their own training programs. In coordination with the Ministry
of Education, special programs of training would be arranged for graduates
of the technical schools to prepare them for industrial employment. The
proposed project would assist the Government in constructing and equipping



- 10 -
the first two vocational training centers and the proposed industrial train-
ing development center. Construction of the third vocational training cen-
ter and acquisition of mobile units would be financed by savings accruing
from INFOP's revenue and would form part of a subsequent development.
5.09      The training of middle level agricultural manpower would be expanded
to assist in the implementation of the Government's strategy in agricultural
diversification and improve agricultural productivity (paras. 2.03, 2.06).  The
facilities of tA1e agricultural secondary school in Catacamas would be expanded
and remodeled.  The Government also plans to reorganize the training programs
to include a larger proportion of agricultural subjects. Also, the administra-
tion of the school would be transferred to a proposed Directorate of Agricul-
tural Education and Training within the Ministry of Natural Resources. The
Bank/IDA project would assist the Government in imolementing the improvement
and expansion of agricultural technician training.
5.10      In the rural areas, the Government plans to strengthen the agri-
cultural training program for improving living conditions, diversifying agri-
culture, increasing productivity, and achieving better income distribution.
To attain these objectives, the Government plans to establish three new agri-
cultural training centers. These centers, which would be assisted under the
proposed project, would be experimental in nature and their impact on the com-
munities would be evaluated prior to their possible large-scale duplication
elsewhere in the country.
Financial Implications of the Strategv
5.11      Implementation of the education and training development strategy
would require a capital contribution by the Government of about US$ 3 million
a year up to 1980. Although it represents a substantial relative increase
over present capital allocations to the sector amounting to US$ 2 million a
year, it is attainable because of the high priority given by the Govern-
ment. External assistance already committed together with the proposed Loan/
Credit would provide annually an additional US$ 3 million in the 1973-80
period.
5.12      With regard to recurrent expenditure, the strategy's implementation
would require an increase at an annual rate of 12% (at current prices), which
is similar to the growth rate during the past five years. Included are esti-
mates of recurrent costs of all the proposed project institutions, the re-
current costs attributed to the investment programs undertaken with CARE and
USAID assistance, and the recurrent expenditure of the National University,
which are expected to increase by about 16% a year because of the recent
completion of its exDansion program.
5.13      Thus, the implementation of the government education program would
require public education expenditure to grow by about 13% annually by 1980,
increasing from 3.5% to 5.0% of GDP and from 21% to 23% of the public budget
(Annex 4). In order to meet this resource demand by the education sector, as
well as of other priority development programs of other sectors, new tax mea-
sures would have to be instituted by the public sector. However, the proposed
project can be implemented in the absence of such measures, since the Govern-
ment will have adequate financial capacity to meet its share of the construc-
tion costs of the new facilities and the limited additional recurrent expendi-
tures resulting therefrom.



- 11 -
VI.  THE PROJECT
General
6.01      The project would support and strengthen the most critical areas
of the Government's development strategy for education and training in Honduras
by improving the quality and relevance of primary teacher training, improving
the quality of and expanding secondary teacher training, and providing new op-
portunities for vocational training and for agricultural education and train-
ing. The project would have two main components, sulmarized below and
described in subsequent paragraphs.
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of the following
institutions:
Total New   New
Type of Education/Training                        Level   Student  Boarding
and Institution                             No.  (Grades) Places    Places  Enrollment
(i) Primary Teacher Training
Regional Primary Teacher              _1
Training Schools                     4'   10-12    1,450    560         2,000
Rural Application Primary
Schools                              12      1-6       960      72L2      960
(ii) Secondary Teacher Training
Secondary Teacher Training
College                               1     13-16      800      -       1,600
Application Secondary
School                                1      7-12      420      -         840
(iii)-Vocational Training
'3
Vocational Training Centers            2       -        510      -       8,490-
Industrial Training Development
Center                                1       -         -       -          -
(iv) Agricultural Education & Training
Agricultural Secondary School          1/4   10-12       190    100         240
Agricultural Training Centers          3       -         150    150      2,000
21              4,480    864      16,130
/1   Two new and two extensions.
7W   Residential facilities for about 48 visiting trainees and 24 resident
teachers.
/3   Duration of course variable from two weeks.
T?  Extension.



- 12 -
(b) Related technical assistance in the form of 23.5 man-years of
expert services, and 46 man-years of fellowsbips for Honduran
educational staff.
P inary Teacher Training
6.02      This project item consists of the construction and equipping of:
(a) Regional Primary Teacher Training Schools
One new coeducational primary teacher training school of
500 student places, including boarding accommodation for
300 women, at La Esperanza in the western region; one new
coeducational primary teacher training school of 500
student places at Tegucigalpa, the expansion of a teacher
training school for men at Comayagua in the central region,
and one for women at Danli in the eastern region, by a
total of 450 student places and 260 boarding places.
(b) Rural Application Primary Schools
A total of twelve rural application primary schools; three
such schools, each with a capacity of 80 students, would
serve a regional teacher training school.
6.03      Regional Primary Teacher Training Schools:  The total enrollment
capacity of the four institutions would be 2,000 and boarding facilities
would be provided in three of the schools for students coming from outlying
parts of the regions. The teacher training schools could graduate about 600
new teachers annually from the regular three-year program. However, the
larger average annual teacher demands would have to be met by a flexible
policy of recruitment and short term upgrading of unemployed teachers.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the proportion
of new trainees to be admitted in the training program each year would be
determined in conjunction with the concurrent evaluation of the response of
unemployed teachers to the Government's special upgrading programs and that
adequate incentives would be provided to attract previously qualified teachers
to the teaching profession. To implement the new curriculum oriented toward
community leadership and rural development, specialized facilities would be
constructed at all four regional teacher training schools. Trainees would
take elective courses of up to six mDnths' duration in pre-primary education,
adult education, agriculture, industrial arts, home economics, nutrition,
health, and organization of cooperatives. Facilities would also be provided
for the systematic upgrading of unqualified teachers.
6.04      The new curriculum has been revised by the Special Commission for
Education Reform; it is satisfactory and should fulfil the Government's
educational objectives. All trainee teachers would spend several weeks in



- 13 -
rural communities, where they would gain practical experience in the techniques
and skills related to multigrade teaching and community development. For this
purpose, twelve application primary schools would be established in selected
rural communities (para 5.05).
6.05      The teaching staff for the four regional teacher training schools
would be selected from staff of existing institutions and upgraded.  To en-
sure that this upgrading would be accomplished by the completion of construc-
tion of the schools, the Government provided assurances during negotiations
that it will commence the program of in-service training for the teaching
staff by December 1974. Technical assistance would be required to ensure ef--
ficient implementation of the reform measures and the upgrading of staff. The
project would provide six man-years of expert services for this purpose and
six man-years of fellowships for training local counterparts (Annex 7).
6.06      Rural Application Primary Schools:  The project would also provide
for the construction, furnishing and equipping of a total of twelve six-grade,
two-classroom rural application primary schools providing a total of 960
student places. Residential facilities adequate to house about four visit-
ing trainees at one time from the primary teacher training schools and also
for the resident teachers would be provided. Local community participation
in kind or labor will be sought for the construction of these schools.
6.07      The schools would be located in rural areas where the population
is about 500 or more and there are at present no education facilities. The
schools would contain only two classrooms because this is the most represen-
tative size of such schools existing or expected to be built in rural areas.
Suitable sites have been chosen to facilitate communication and allow close
supervision by the regional teacher training schools. Three six-grade two-
classroom rural application primary schools, each with a capacity of 80 stu-
dents, would serve a regional teacher training school.
Secondary Teacher Training
6.08      This project item consists of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of:
(i) new facilities for the secondary teacher training college
at Tegucigalpa for 800 student places to replace the
buildings of the existing college;
(ii)  one new application secondary school providing a total of
420 student places.
6.09      Secondary Teacher Training College:  The new facilities to be con-
structed in Tegucigalpa will replace the existing college, which is totally
inadequate and unsuitable for expansion or remodeling (para. 5.06). When the
new college is in full operation, total enrollment is expected to be about
1,600, using the facilities ten hours daily, and the output about 350 teachers



- 14 -
per year. This would satisfy both the demand created by the ongoing secondary
education expansion program financed by USAID and normal replacement needs.
The college would provide pre-service training courses of four years' duration,
in-service courses of varying duration, and short courses to train university
graduates for entry into teaching. Experts provided under a UNDP technical
assistance program would help the Ministry of Education reorganize the college
and revise the curriculum, so as to produce broader based graduates with
competence to teach several related subjects. Upgrading of the college's
present staff would be carried out under the UNDP program, which also includes
fellowships for studies abroad (Annex 7). The proposed implementation for
this technical assistance was discussed during negotiations and was found
satisfactory.
6.10      Application Secondary School:  This project item consists of the
construction and equipping of a new application secondary school of 420 stud-
ent places. The school would be located near the Secondary Teacher Training
College, would serve a catchment area with a population of about 10,000 and
would operate on a two-shift basis. It would provide facilities for testing
new teaching techniques, new methods of school administration, organization,
and scheduling.
Vocational Training
6.11      The project would provide for constructing, furnishing and equip-
ping two vocational training centers, one in Tegucigalpa (240 places) and
the other in San Pedro Sula (270 places), and an Industrial Training Devel-
opment Center that would be incorporated in the Tegucigalpa center.
6.12      The proposed facilities would reinforce the recently established
INFOP, enabling it to accelerate the introduction of a wide range of train-
ing programs (paras 3.14 and 5.08). Facilities would be built and equipped
for training in the fields of repair mechanics, auto mechanics, electrical
installation, welding, plumbing, bricklaying, masonry, carpentry, air-con-
ditioning and refrigeration.
6.13      With a two-shift system, the annual output of the two vocational
training centers would be as follows:
Upgrading     Accelerated       Apprentice
Training     Adult Training      Training
Tegucigalpa VTC       3,240            450               60
San Pedro Sula VTC   3,960             720               -
TOTAL           7,200          1,170               60
An additional 2,000 - 3,000 workers would be trained on the job through in-
plant programs (para. 5.09).  The Industrial Training Development Center
would help the management of enterprises identify their training needs and
plan and implement the in-plant programs.



- 15 -
6.14      Vocational training would be organized at any level required to
satisfy demand and would be based on occupational analyses. Flexibility
would be ensured through the use of short, self-contained training modules.
Upgrading training of employed workers would be organized in modules of up
to 50 hours' duration (two weeks). Workers could subsequently return to
the centers for further upgrading, as needed. Accelerated training courses
would be offered for unemployed adults and dropouts from the education sys-
tem (minimum age 18) who wish to train for specific jobs within a narrow
field of specialization. The courses would generally be of five or six
months' duration and arranged in modules so that a worker could broaden
his field of specialization by taking a series of related modules at sub-
sequent dates throughout his lifetime. Stipends would be paid by INFOP to
trainees while undergoing training. The training of apprentices would also
be organized in courses lasting up to three years. The first year would be
spent full time at the training center, followed by a six-month period of
supervised on-the-job training and work experience in an enterprise. A rod-
ule of specialized vocational training at the center would finalize formal
training, and the last year would consist of supervised on-the-job training
and experience in emDloyment.  For entry to an apprenticeship, INFOP would
require the equivalent of a primary school education and a minimum age of
15.
6.15      Training for recognized skilled occupations would be up to estab-
lished standards, skill levels would be tested, and certificates awarded.
The training programs would be subject to periodic revision. Short, sup-
plementary courses would be arranged for graduates of the technical schools
to prepare them for employment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that these courses will be undertaken in coordination with the Ministry of
Education. Also, the Government has given assurances that occupational
analyses will be the basis of the curricula, to be implemented through the
use of short, self-contained training modules, and that a placemenit and
follow-up service for trainees will be established.
6.16      Some 70 full-time trade instructors and 30 training officers (job
analysts, programmers, standards and trade testers, supervisor trainers) would
be engaged to implement the programs. To overcome the lack of qualified per-
sonnel in the country and give impetus to the development of INFOP's training
program, a group of 40 Hondurans would be selected and sent abroad for train-
ing under a fellowship scheme within the project. In addition, four experts
would be required to assist in INFOP's initial planning and organization and
the implementation of its programs. A total of 30 man-years of fellowships
and 8.5 man-years of expert services would be required for this purpose.
Some interest has been expressed by bilateral agencies to meet the technical
assistance requirements; but because no commitments have yet been made, funds
for the required technical assistance have been included in the project cost.
However, if the Government should obtain technical assistance from other
sources, the corresponding amount would be reallocated.



- 16 -
Agricultural Education and Training
6.17      Agricultural Secondary School:  This project item consists of the
construction of new facilities to expand and/or replace deteriorated build-
ings and equipment for the agricultural secondary school at Catacamas (para
5.09). Tie school's capacity would be increased from 100 to 240 resident
students, with an annual output of 70 middle level technicians, which would
meet the established demand (para 2.06). The school would be completely re-
organized under the proposed Directorate of Agricultural Education and Train-
ing within the Ministry of Natural Resources, and a management board repre-
senting institutions of the agriculture and education sectors would be es-
tablished.
6.18      The reorganization would comprise the following essential actions:
(i) transfer all unqualified teachers to other posts and appoint qualified
teachers, or at least higher-level agricultural technicians for the agricul-
tural subjects, and a university graduate as Director; (ii) establish adequate
procedures for selecting student candidates; (iii) improve the curriculum by
consolidating the present numerous courses, to include 75% agricultural and
25% general education subjects; and (iv) increase the school budget progres-
sively so as to meet the recurrent expenditure incurred by the reorganization.
The Government gave assurances during negotiations that by December 1974 it
will undertake, in consultation with the Bank/IDA, the reorganization of the
agricultural secondary school of Catacamas.
6.19      Implementation of the school's development program requires tech-
nical assistance, in the form of six man-years of expert services and 10
man-years of fellowships for training of teaching staff. It would be fi-
nanced under the project.
6.20      Agricultural Training Centers:  The project would provide for the
construction, furnishing and equipping of three new agricultural training
centers under the control of the Ministry of Natural Resources. One center
would be located at Catacamas on the National School of Agriculture's farm,
where a field station would also be established, with IDB assistance. The
other two centers would be located at La Lujosa and La Esperanza, where ex-
tension agencies and agricultural field stations are being developed under
an IDB project.
6.21      Each center, with a capacity of 50 places, would offer courses to
farmers in improved farming methods, organization of cooperatives, use of
agricultural inputs and credit, and improved marketing systems (para. 5.10).
There would also be courses for (a) homemakers in home economics (nutrition,
health and child care); (b) youth in rural development activities; and (c)
extension staff. The courses for farmers and homemakers would be of one
week's duration and each trainee would attend three courses a year. The
courses for young farmers and extension staff would be of two to three
weeks' duration during the summer of each year. A total of about 2,000
persons would be trained each year.



- 17 -
6.22      The teaching staff would be provided mainly by the agricultural
extension service, which would also select the trainees, transport them to
the centers and establish a follow-up system to evaluate the results of the
training.  Each center would be administered by a full-time director ap?ointed
by the proposed Directorate General of Agricultural Education and Training,
under the Ministry of Natural Resources.
*          Technical Assistance
6.23      In addition to the technical assistance to be provided for the im-
plementation of the above project items, three man-years of services would
also be provided under the project, as follows:
(a)  Two man-years of specialist services to assist the Ministry
of Education in carrying out the proposals for improving and
decentralizing the administration of education in Honduras
(para. 5.01);
(b) One man-year of architectural consultant services to strengthen
the project unit (para. 7.02).
All of the technical experts to be financed by the proposed Loan/Credit wou'ld
be acceptable to the Bank and would be supported by the appointment of com-
petent counterpart staff. The phasing of all technical assistance was agreed
with the Government during negotiations.
Evaluation of the Project
6.24      To enable the Government and the Bank/IDA to assess the success of
the project in attaining its objectives, the Government gave assurances
during negotiations that it will establish a tracer system to be used in carry-
ing out a systematic follow-up study of student dropout, graduation and sub-
sequent employment, with or without further education or training, of those
who have attended the Droject institutions.
Cost of the Project
6.25      The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes, and the foreign ex-
change components of the various project elements (Annex 8), is summarized on
the next page.



- 18 -
Lempiras (millions)   US Dollars (millions) % of Total
Proj ect
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total       Cost
Primary Teacher Training
a)  Regional Primary Teacher
Training Schools (4)        2.37   2.18   4.55    1.19   1.09    2.28    26.3
b)  Rural Application
Primary Schools (12)        0.12   0.09   0.21    0.06   0.05    0.11       1.2
Secondary Teacher Training
a) Secondary Teacher
Training College            0.91   0.93   1.84    0.46   0.46    0.92    10.7
b) Application Secondary
School                      0.33   0.34   0.67    0.16   0.17    0.33       3.9
Vocational Training
a) Vocational Training
Centers (2)                 0.90   1.45   2.35    0.45   0.72    1.17    13.5
b)  Industrial Training
Development Center          0.10   0.22   0.32    0.05   0.11    0.16       1.8
Agricultural Ed. & Training
a) Agricultural Secondary
School                      0.45   0.54   0.99    0.22   0.27    0.49       5.7
b) Agricultural Training
Centers (3)                 0.40   0.45   0.85    0.20   0.23    0.43       4.9
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships           0.14   1.80   1.94    0.07   0.90    0.97    11.2
Project Unit                -     0.04   0.04      -     0.02    0.02      0.2
Sub-Total             5.72   8.04  13.76    2.86   4.02    6.88    79.4
Contingencies:
Physical                  0.56   0.62   1.18    0.28   0.31    0.59       6.8
Price                     1.06   1.32   2.38    0.53   0.66    1.19    13.8
Total Project Cost,
Including Con-
tingencies                7.34   9.98  17.32    3.67   4.99    8.66   100.0
_        -      -         --_-



- 19 
6.26      The estimated cost of the project by type of expenditure is as
follows:
Lempiras (millions)   US Dollars (millions) % of Total
Project
Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
1. Construction
Academic and Communal   3.26   2.24   5.50    1.63    1.12   2.75    31.8
Boarding                 0.60   0.39   0.99    0.29    0.20   0.49        5.7
Staff Housing            0.19   0.12   0.31    0.10    0.06   0.16        1.8
Site Development         0.57   0.38   0.95    0.29    0.19   0.48        5.5
Professional Services   0.53   0.10   0.63    0.26    0.05   0.31         3.6
Sub-Total             5.15   3.23   8.38    2.57    1.62   4.19    48.4
2. Furniture                  0.34   0.62   0.96    0.17    0.31   0.48        5.5
3. Equipment                  0.10   2.38   2.48    0.05    1.i9   1.24    14.3
4. Technical Assistance       0.14   1.80   1.94    0.07    0.90   0.97    11.2
and Fellowships
5. Contingencies              1.62   1.94   3.56    0.81    0.97   1.78    20.6
Total                 7.34   9.98  17.32    3.67    4.99   8.66   100.0
ZMENNE=   =~   =0 = =
6.27      The construction cost estimates have been derived from recent school
building costs in Honduras and adjusted to accommodate improvements in design
and construction. The estimated average unit costs of the new facilities
included in the project are reasonable; they reflect a high utilization of
accommodation and austere standards of construction, furnishing and equipment
but are consistent with functional requirements (Annex 9). A local cost
adjustment of 10% to 25% has been included for schools outside the Tegucigalpa
area to allow for transportation costs of materials and for hiring skilled
labor from major cities. Site development costs vary from 7% to 26% of the
building costs, depending on conditions at each site and additional outdoor
sports facilities.
6.28      Furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on early 1973 prices.
Detailed lists are being prepared by local specialists and will be ready by the
time the architectural master plans are prepared. The contingency allowances
included in the project cost consist of (a) unforeseen factors - 10% of esti-
mated costs of civil works, professional services, furniture and equipment;
and (b) price escalation, varying from 6% to 8% per year for the various cost
categories, as shown in Annex 10. All contingencies amount to US$1.8 million



- 20 -
-)f the total estimated cost of US$8.66 million, or 26% of the total cost be-
fore contingencies.
Foreign Exchange Component
6.29      The foreign exchange component of the project would be about US$5.0
million equivalent, representing about 58% of the total project cost. This
component has been estimated as follows: (i) civil works, 40%; (ii) furni-
ture, 65%; (iii) equipment, 95%; (iv) services of consultant architects, 15%;
(v) technical assistance, 90%; and (vi) fellowships, 100%.
Project Recurrent Costs (Annex 11)
6.30      Full use of all the project facilities would be attained by 1980.
The net increase of recurrent expenditures would amount to US$1.6 million.
However, the total recurrent expenditures of their operation would be US$2.9
million, amounting to 4.6% of education recurrent expenditure that year, and
they would be distributed as follows:
(a) Ministry of Education - US$1.3 million, but only a US$0.2
million net increase over the 1972 budget because of pro-
jected savings of US$170,000 due to the consolidation of
the primary teacher training program (paras 5.05, 6.02-
6.05).
(b) Ministry of Natural Resources - US$0.4 million, showing
an increase over the 1972 budget of US$0.2 million.
(c) INFOP - US$1.2 million, to be fully financed by the existing
levy on salaries and wages (para 3.14).
The net increase in recurrent expenditures is feasible (para 5.13). The
Government provided assurances during negotiations that it will make specific
annual budgetary provisions for the operation of the project institutions,
as required.
VII. DIMPLEMENTATION
Administration
7.01      A project unit would be established under the Higher Economic Plan-
ning Council (CONSUPLAN) and would be responsible for (i) overall administra-
tion of project implementation and (ii) liaison with other Ministries and
parties involved in the project and with the Bank/IDA. The project unit would
include a project director and an architect or engineer experienced in school
construction, both full-time. They would be assisted by a part-time procure-
ment specialist and a part-time accountant. All would be selected in con-
sultation with the Bank. The project unit would be provided with adequate



- 21 
facilities and supporting staff to enable it to function effectively.  The
project director would report to the Executive Secretary of CONSUPLAN but
would be empowered to make all day-to-day decisions relating to the operation
of the unit, including staff management coordination of technical assistance
specialists, and procurement of supplies and services. He would have access
to all relevant Ministers when required.
7.02      The Ministries of Education and of Natural Resources artd INFOP each
would appoint a high level officer responsible for the technical aspects of
the implementation of the project component related to its Ministry/Agency
and for liaison with the project unit. Included in the project cost are one
man/year of specialist services of an architect for the project unit and a
sum of US$20,000 for procurement of a vehicle, office equipment and furniture
to be used by the project unit. The establishment of the project unit and
the appointment of the project director and the architect (or engineer), would
be a condition for the effectiveness of the proposed Loan/Credit. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that within three months from the
date of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit Agreement, it will appoint the
procurement officer, the accountant and the liaison officers of the Ministry
of Education, Natural Resources and INFOP.
Professional Services
7.03      Architectural design for the Ministry of Education project items
would be assigned to an existing group of architects and engineers within
the Ministry. This design group would work on a full-time basis. Archi-
tectural design for the INFOP and Ministry of Natural Resources project
items would be assigned to consultant architects or to the Ministry of
Education's design group, provided that the latter is strengthened by the
appointment of additional staff, as required. Technical assistance spe-
cialists financed under the project would assist the design groups. The
consultants selected for architectural design and for field supervision
would be acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
Sites
7.04      Sites have been selected and found acceptable for all new institu-
tions and extensions included in the project, with the exception of the
Tegucigalpa teacher training school, three application primary schools and
two INFOP training centers. For these institutions suitable sites, accept-
able to the Bank/IDA, would be selected and acquired with sufficient lead-
time to avoid delays in construction. Assurances to this effect were obtained
from the Government during negotiations.
Procurement
7.05      All contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment and
for construction would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement. However,



- 22 -
.onstruction work for the twelve rural primary application schools,
.se of the dispersed location and small size, will be only locally
advertised. Local furniture and equipment manufacturers would be allowed a
. tial margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the
cur-.:)Itly applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Items that cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$5,000 would be procured in accordance with
the Borrr..   -regular procurement procedures and would not in the aggregate
exceed tt;e equivalent of US$170,000 (corresponding to 10% of total costs of
equipie-nt and furniture).
Disbu;sement
7.06      The proposed Loan/Credit would be disbursed to finance US$6.0 mil-
lion equivalent, or 69% of the total estimated project costs of US$8.66 mil-
lion. This would cover the estimated US$5.0 million foreign exchange compo-
nent plus 27% of the local project costs estimated at US$3.7 million. The
Loan/Credit would be disbursed to meet:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on imported furniture and
equipment or 100% of ex-factory price;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures on technical assistance
specialists and 100% of total expenditures on fellowships;
(c)  52% of the total costs of construction, site development
and professional services.
7.07      The construction and equipping of schools would be completed in
about three and a half years (Annex 12). The schedule of disbursements is
shown in Annex 13. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled unless the Bank
agrees to use them to finance other expenses related to the project. A
condition of disbursement for the project items to be implemented by INFOP
would be the completion by the Government of all necessary contractual
arrangements with LNFOP providing for the latter's participation in the
project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During Loan/Credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following principal points:
(i.) information to be supplied to the Bank/IDA regarding
enrollment plans and targets at primary and secondary
levels and at teacher training schools (paras 5.03 and
6,03)3



- 23 -
(ii)  in-service training for staff of primary teacher
training schools (para 6.05);
(iii) implementation of an agreement between the Government
and INFOP to ensure the carrying out by INFOP of its
commitments within the project (paras 6.14, 6.15);
(iv)  reorganization of the agricultural secondary school
at Catacamas (para 6.18);
(r) phasing and conditions for implementation of the
technical assistance component (para 6.23);
(vi)  establishment of a tracer system for project institu-
tions (para 6.24);
(vii) annual budgetary provisions for the operation of project
institutions (para 6.30); and
(viii) acquisition of sites for project institutions (para 7.04).
8.02      A condition for the effectiveness of the proposed Loan/Credit would
be the establishment of the project unit and the appointment of the project
director and the architect (or engineer), both acceptable to the Bank/IDA
(para 7.01).
8.03      A condition of disbursement for the project items to be implemented
by INFOP would be the completion by the Government of all necessary contractual
arrangements with INFOP providing for the latter's participation in the proj-
ect (para. 7.07).
8.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for blend financ-
ing of an IDA Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent on standard terms and a Bank
Loan of US$3.0 million equivalent to Honduras for a period of 30 years
including a grace period of 10 years.
December 7, 1973






APPENDIX
Page 1
HONDURAS
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
General
1.        The Ministry of Education is responsible for administering formal
primary and secondary education and training in Honduras.  It also controls
some types of literacy programs, but the majority of non-formal education and
training activities is carried on by various private enterprises, autonomous
institutions and the Ministries of Labor and Natural Resources. Higher educa-
tion is in the hands of the Autonomous National University and one private and
three public non-autonomous institutions.
2.        The administrative structure of the Ministry of Education comprises
several departments, general directorates and services (Chart I). Some of
the weakness of the present administrative system are: executive and manage-
ment techniques have not been adapted to cope with the growth in size and com-
plexity of the education system; duplication of services in different depart-
ments; excessive centralization within departments; inadequate financial and
accounting procedures; lack of clearly defined and applicable personnel policy;
lack of coordination between the Ministry of Education, other public and pri-
vate agencies dealing with education and training and the productive sector;
lack of delegation of authority and responsibility.
Structure
3.        The structure of the system of education and training is shown in
Chart II. It comprises six years of primary education, followed by a three-
year common cycle of general culture at the lower secondary level and two
years of upper secondary education in science and arts or three years for
the technical, agricultural, commercial and primary teacher training streams.
The pattern of enrollment in primary and secondary schools for 1972 is shown
in Annex 2.
4.        At the post secondary level, there is the Secondary School Teacher
Training College offering courses of four years' duration, the Pan American
Agricultural School and the Social Service School, both offering three-year
courses, and the National Autonomous University, where courses vary from two
to seven years, depending on specialization. The education pyramid is shown
in Chart III.
Primary Education
5.        Primary education is free and compulsory and covers ages 7 to 13.
Total enrollment, amounting to 412,000 in 1972, represents about 81% of the
7-13 age group. In 1972 there was a total of 4,151 primary schools in the



APPENDIX
Page 2
St2liq  X3,645 of them in rural areas.  Incomplete schools with fewer than
six grades account for 63% of the total, the vast majority of these in the
rural areas. The overall retention rate on the order of 18% is very low
but in the rural areas drops to a much lower 8%.
6.        The high wastage rate in the primary education system is largely
due to the following factors: (a) large number of schools offering fewer
than six grades, particularly in the rural areas, (b) curriculum irrelevant
to the environment of the regions, (c) schools unattractive and inadequately
equippec, (d) teaching quality low, (e) children, mainly in the rural areas,
compelled to help their families by going to work at an early age, (f) in
the case of girls, early marriage, and (g) non-enforcement of the compulsory
attendance laws.
7.        Primary school teachers numbered 11,148 in 1972, of whom 22% were
tnqualified. These are mainly posted in rural schools, although more highly
trained teachers are needed to teach two or more grades simultaneously in
schools where there are few students at each level. The national teacher-
pupil ratio is 1:37.
8.        Primary teacher training has been carried out in the past through
special courses in 47 secondary schools and this has resulted in an over-
production of teachers of low quality.  In an effort to improve the quality
of teachers, concentrate resources and reduce output to coincide with demand,
the Government has started to consolidate the teacher training courses into
four institutions located at Tegucigalpa, La Esperanza, Comayagua and Danli.
Secondary Education
9.        About 71% of the pupils completing primary education enrolls in sec-
ondary schools. In 1972 the total enrollment in secondary education (lower
and upper levels) amounted to 51,500, which represents 14% of the 14-19 age
population. The three-year lower cycle (ciclo comun) comprises general sub-
jects, industrial arts and home economics. The upper cycle (ciclo diversi-
ficado) consists of courses leading to the bachillerato, which opens the way
to the university, as well as teacher training and several vocational courses.
The bachillerato courses are: General (science and humanities), of two years'
duration, Technical-Industrial and Agricultural, of three years' duration. In
Commerce a three-year course leading to the title of Perito Mercantil y Contador
Publico is offered.
10.       In 1972 the total number of secondary schools was 134.  Of these, 39
had only the lower cycle, two the upper cycle (science and humanities), two the
primary teacher-training cycle, 20 the commercial cycle and 26 offered only
secretarial courses. All the rest were multilateral institutions combining
all or some of the above streams. Primary teacher training is offered in 47
schools and the technical-industrial stream in only one school.



APPENDIX
Page 3
11.       The role of private education is predominant at the secondary level.
In 1972 only 26% of total enrollment was in public secondary schools. About
8% of secondary schools (excluding technical and agricultural) was public, 27%
semi-public and 65% private. However, a school-building program assisted by
USAID will change this and by 1980 21% of secondary schools will be public,
accommodating about 46% of the enrollment. The increased student places in
public secondary schools (about 20,000) will give educational opportunities
to pupils who cannot afford to pay fees.
Technical and Vocational Education
12.       Courses aimed at the training of skilled workers for industry are of-
fered in three institutions: the Instituto Tecnico Luis Bogran, the Instituto
Vocacional Honduras, both in Tegucigalpa, and the Centro Tecnico Hondureno
Aleman in San Pedro Sula. Admission to all courses is by examination and
the following levels are offered (Annex 3):
(a) Perito Industrial. This is a post-primary training course of
four years' duration, students spending half their time on
workshop activities. Enrollment was 528 and output 40 in 1972
and wastage rate more than 70%.
(b) Bachiller Tecnico. This is a three-year upper secondary course
offered only at the Instituto Tecnico Luis Bogran in Tegucigalpa.
In 1972 out of 93 students enrolled 18 graduated, most of them
entering the university. These courses are severely criticized
by the industrialists, who claim that the training given is not
related to industrial needs and that a graduate has to be given
further intensive on-the-job instruction. The curriculum is in-
flexible and no means exist to adapt it periodically to the needs
of the industrial sector. Furthermore, wastage is extremely high
and output very low, with resultant high cost per graduate. As
almost all the Bachilleres Tecnicos enter university, mainly in
academic fields, it is unlikely that they will ever effectively
utilize their skills in employment, with consequent waste of the
money invested in training them.
(c) Tecnico Industrial. This is a three-year apprenticeship course
after completion of the three-year lower cycle of secondary edu-
cation. Students spend four days per week in the workshops and
one day in the classroom. This course is offered only at the
Centro Tecnico Hondureno Aleman, in San Pedro Sula, and is re-
ceiving technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Ger-
many. Enrollment was 176 in 1972 and output 49, all of whom
were placed in industry. The quality of training is high and
the wastage low, but the cost per graduate is exorbitant.
(d) Upgrading. These are evening courses for employed workers and
are of varying length. In 1972 enrollment was 651.



APPENDIX
Page 4
Courses in commercial educat-ion are offered in 51 private schools,
fiv-e semi-public and two public. Enrollment in 1972 was 6,551 in commercial
screams leading to the title Perito Mercantil y Contador Publico and 1,030
in the Secretarial Stream.  Output was 527 and 215, respectively, and is more
than adequate to meet demand, although some quality improvement is desirable.
14.       Dressmaking, shorthand, typing, home economics and beauty culture
are popular courses run by the Instituto Vocacional Honduras and other special-
ized schools.  Entrance requirements to most of these courses are primary
school-1eaving certificates, and enrollment in 1972 was about 1,700. Length
of the courses varies from one to three years.
hgricultural Education
15.       Three-year post-primary courses leading to the "Perito Agricola"
certificate are offered at the John F. Kennedy School, San Francisco, and
El Sembrano School, Carbon. The former is a public school, while the latter
is a private evangelical school. Enrollment in 1972 was 183 and output 44.
16.       Courses at the upper secondary level are offered by the National
School of Agriculture, Catacamas, and by the National School of Forestry,
Siguatepeque, both being three-year courses leading to the "Bachillerato
in Agricultural Sciences" and to the Forestry Guard Certificate, respective-
ly. Both schools are under the Ministry of Natural Resources. The School
of Forestry is receiving UNDP/FAO assistance.
17.       Enrollment at the National School of Agriculture at Catacamas in
1972 was 170, out of which 61 graduated. Due to the poor quality of the teach-
ing and irrelevance of the curriculum, very few of the graduates were employed,
although there is a demand for middle level agricultural technicians.
Higher Education
18.       The National Autonomous University of Honduras provides a variety
of courses varying in length from two to seven years. Major expansion during
recent years includes the establishment of the Faculties of Mechanical, Elec-
trical and Chemical Engineering and of the Faculty of Agriculture at La Ceiba.
The university is receiving substantial aid through a loan from the Inter-
American Development Bank.
19.       The Pan-American Agricultural School at Zamorano is a regional
college offering three-year courses leading to the diploma of "Agronomo" and
recruits its students from the various Latin American Republics. It is a
privately organized, autonomous institution established in 1941 and financed
with income derived principally from an endowment fund established by the
United Fruit Company and other contributors. Very significant financial



APPENDIX
Page 5
assistance has also been provided by USAID. About 55 students graduate an-
nually, 16 of them Hondurans. The facilities, curriculum and teaching staff
are good and the graduates are held in high esteem. The physical facilities
available for agricultural instruction would permit increasing the output ap-
preciably.
20.       The National School of Forestry provides a three-year post--secondary
course leading to the "Dasonomo" diploma. The school is under the auspices of
the Ministry of Natural Resources and receives financial and technical assis-
tance from UNDP/FAO. The training of higher level technicians in forestry is
one of the most promising steps taken for forest development in Honduras.
21.       The School of Social Services offers a three-year post-secondary
course for training social workers. The school is autonomous and is asso-
ciated with the Ministry of Labor. Enrollment in 1972 was 66 and the total
number of graduates since the establishment of the school in 1958 is 185.
22.       The Secondary Teacher Training College, under the Ministry of Edu-
cation, has the responsibility of training secondary school teachers. New
teachers are trained in full-time courses of four years' duration and al-
though enrollment has risen to about 400, output has averaged 55 during the
past five years. The annual requirement of new teachers is about 400. Ex-
isting primary and secondary school teachers are upgraded through special
courses organized by the college and in 1971 there were 350 following such
courses. The curriculum in force includes too many specialized subjects in-
appropriate to the secondary school curriculum and produces graduates who are
narrowly based and unable to teach several related subjects. The college is
operating in completely inadequate buildings with poor laboratories, no work-
shops and a lack of teaching materials. The staff of the college is mostly
young graduates of the same institution, requiring further training. The
Government is giving emphasis to the expansion and improvement of teacher
training and has obtained technical assistance from the UNDP to review the
curriculum, reorganize the college, introduce modern educational techniques
and establish new training areas such as industrial arts, commerce and physi-
cal education.
Non-Formal Education and Training
23.       Activities in this field may be classified as follows:  (a) literacy,
general education, culture and social work; (b) vocational training; (c) rural
development; and (d) radio programs.
(a) Literacy, General Education, Culture and Social Work
(i) The Ministry of Education operates 97 Literacy Cen-
ters staffed by primary school teachers. Course
duration is six months and enrollment nearly 3,000.
External assistance is being received from several
agencies in the form of specialists, equipment and
some teaching materials.



APPENDIX
Page 6
(ii) Adult primar-y schools of six years' duration are
administered by the Ministry of Education, and
staffed by primary school teachers; content, meth-
ods and techniques are similar to those used for
children. There are 47 schools operating the scheme
with nearly 13,000 adults enrolled, of which about
5,000 are women.
(iii) A program organized by the National Social Welfare
Committee (Junta Nacional de Bienestar Social) under
the auspices of the Ministry of Labor includes com-
munity social development, social services, voca-
tional training for delinquent children and adoles-
cents, and a pilot project for reconstruction and
rural development with community cooperation.
(iv) A health program is operated by students of the Fac-
ulty of Medicine of the National Autonomous University
of Honduras, who are required to work for one year in
rural communities after completion of their studies.
(b) Vocational Training
(i) Between 1969 and 1972 courses were offered by the Min-
istry of Labor, National Manpower Department, in a va-
riety of trades at a small training center in Tegucigalpa.
Both accelerated and upgrading courses were offered and
312 workers were trained. The courses were discontinued
at the end of 1972.
(ii) To put vocational training on a sounder financial basis,
the Instituto Nacional de Formacion Profesional (INFOP)
was created by supreme decree in December 1972. It is
responsible for training for all levels of employment
and all sectors of the economy and is financed by a levy
on wages and salaries. INFOP is an autonomous agency
governed by a board of directors composed of the Minister
of Labor, Minister of Education, Minister of Economy, the
Secretary of the Higher Economic Planning Council, two
representatives of the Consejo Hondureno de la Empresa
Privada and two representatives of the Confederacion de
Trabajadores de Honduras. Technical assistance is being
received from UNDP/ILO, CIDA and the Spanish Government
and many training activities are being planned. Upgrad-
ing training of existing workers is a priority need to
which much emphasis is being given. In addition, plans
for the establishment of vocational training centers at
Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and La Ceiba are advanced.



APPENDIX
Page 7
(iii)  Since 1960 the Centro Cooperativo Tecnico Industrial
(CCTI), an autonomous institution sponsored by the
Ministry of Finance, USAID, and the National Indus-
trial Association, has organized several types of
training programs. Activities have been concentrated
on training of personnel employed in enterprises,
training of managers for small cooperatives, artisan
training in the villages and organizing the Handicraft
Center at the Valle de Angeles.  There were 1,427 par-
ticipants in the industrial courses and 157 trainees
in the artisan courses in 1972. The program has been
well received in all quarters; however, due to the re-
ported termination of the USAID technical assistance
by mid-1973, the future of this program is uncertain.
(iv) Several of the larger enterprises have established their
own in-plan training program for the upgrading of their
existing workers and for apprentice training. With INFOP
participation starting in 1974, it is expected that this
program will improve.
(c) Rural Development
(i) The main task of the National Agrarian Institute (Instituto
Nacional Agrario - INA) is to implement the Agrarian Reform
Law and for that purpose it offers training programs aimed
at activating and organizing peasant groups for cooperatives
ind trainina leaders. INA is operating a training center at
Guanchias, Department of Yoro, with a capacity of 80 trainees,
and a second center, at Tocoa, is under construction.
(ii) An Integrated Development Project at Gracias a Dios is op-
erated by the Ministry of Education. The project covers
two areas, Lempira and Gracias a Dios, with five communi-
ties in each area. Rural adult education includes literacy,
general education, accounting, agriculture, health, domes-
tic service, sewing and recreation. The staff consists of
educators, agronomists, nurses, social workers and trade
instructors.
(iii) Agricultural extension services are operated by the Rural
Development Office (DESARRURAL) under the Ministry of Na-
tural Resources. Tnere are seven regional offices includ-
ing one national center and 52 extension agencies staffed
by 34 professionals and 68 technicians in agriculture.
Training of extension workers and short courses for farmers
are offered at only one training center, at Comayagua, which
has a capacity of 55 trainee places.



APPENDIX
Page 8
(d)  Rad_"o Program
This program is carried out by the Ministry of
Education with the voluntary participation of the busi-
ness community and the Catholic Church. Objectives of
the program are community development, organization of
peasants, and skill training. The courses are offered
in two-hour daily programs and there are 1,192 base cen-
ters in 13 departments, with an enrollment of about 20,000
students. Specialized staff at the Central Office is sup-
ported by supervisors, coordinators and monitors (one for
each base center).



I blic              af lop         %fsoo-l    blo              int          aodc                            ...cod.a           0              ...oIOpt
(2)     (3)        (Orice  triO)7 noIy)9                                                                         (to)i       lOot           Eoginao.-3t
Mo     l>,               12            (3              "4I               3                i              )         (1             1)             10              (1             11(3
03npoc.tttocducotiot dotococ  AoVuoau~~~~~~~~~~~969                        6               293
fl11-1,                         1970            'I             I~~~~~~~~,437     9               I0.                              11.1699                   i              06            41144I23
cca-obI       octpn  ooou                    looaad071                                          111,           4, l.717        99             1V41                                 15           4          2               9.                             9I                               0
ioa  cootd   t  O  OI-oo        Nnoy17..                                                            .t              4             19671.                                           39t         23             91 0           V  V10                        1047
tobla bana lpao ctlltttto  tOc1o.  ocelot.,A                        171D          204.10           4                9               1                 . 15.051                     191          1848                         301                            04                  1
096     iho dau                                                                              IIIoa(mo      O  99 3.  t97V V  97              94E              9.99.                         98           38             39             16             to             it                 1601
-d lb. B-   L.  I  ~       ~        ~       090           00.9             4.1              94              203              3.6              16.7E         90          25             91           ..I               I                                 300
lo      --nott 'cc -aoh -coi-dc
"Io l atnodRputilltaad                        A...
eili Iiit.0   1c lih   lcu
cho..c ..i.oho      'I          . 90tttao,   lcAca091-t                                                          3009           120             200              2.2 I9.30                     397          3it            139           li              312l66
anI   doouoaolipc               5tI           .  Ipad                            92 .-                         1,30c            90              9  .0MID0                                      97           3 74 40                                      09 23154
ao-clca- pac-oad'L obeRni                   3    pl                             191            3.             117                  t           27.4                             03191it1911Dt                                                                           4                 37
Photo data, Otto  mnttontui quIll-  4.  nl0tcca             0~~~~        ~~~ ~            ~~971  I3  29     0  I            3 6  I           9.u             29. II        3i           69i                           012
tlcociooaabonld  c.loooocu  5.  toactooc            1970            5.9              OIl          ...                6              3.0             20.0           74          41              9             23              230 40  1  ":1' 11I  1  13  t
fotnol:                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02.  Do.,o             1968            0.37             130            9310            ItO3I3                           13.27I         73          401            13            iLOPB
11.  I....                          19091           06                In           ,                13               4.7             05.:73         74          09              0             4              013 30
21  Ptiaocm" adccotltncotcca  ~~~12.  toonaoOt                                     4.7              3190            9A             1                4.2             2.      44                 46              1              i             2
loadccatiotttttot  LInac boat  0'.   Vtnya                 ~~~~~          ~~~~      ~      ~~~~1970  11.3 09 tc              0                3.3            210                                       to3  I                        22              9n3
audo,acoodociondocotton  taFaca  04.   0.ibppia             0~~~     ~     ~~~~970  1.       249            15I                             I.7              00.7          370         30I10                          6              16             10I                  97
to  oIl aducatlocat oVa aeooodory ~~~~~~~~~~  loll          042192          5.10               797          10               IbIt1                           30.3           18          41              4             63061 
I.-.itIad.Li-aol lh    106                 l.tc.cac                              970             I 0.            140            10               2                .L1.                           3                         1131                          24             1
Oocacol,tacltlcai.aoninctcuncil.    5~~7.  0onc                       970           1:,5               230           27               9               4.1             1704           34          33 1'2                         3              2237
>19.  Ntntcic                ~~~~~          ~~~~1971  5.7      50           ..3                               id              ..              40          74                           49314                                               6
10)  cnctudaaonpooiaanta  On nod-   ~23.   lltto   Lan-              1960            0.               19i~ 7          7  A                            2.9             095            0           31             10              7              2             10                   7I
oipot,co..o.ocuoat,otcicullutao.  05.1  Iotl                           91            10                  1                                            ...              6.74           0          30              0       1                            20     00I
nctnaIat,  h-        --cno.l          22LO 30                                             1.                 21                                            3.5l 0          2.01 0          I7           1A            2 A            3I7            1,7A           23 n                II
IL'tauanl                        1921           17.37             1117.I                          4               4.              104            3           435                                            i4 
.21.  uiuda                          1970             .               130            236              I               3.29            04.37          4it         31              47            11              IL            00                   5
41cacanat ly t7aodfo,tonc                 6      It291                                        0.70                             3 I5.40                                         19129 490                                                               0               0
Inaoc hccoi,o    072      ono17                                          .                u 7,         43              0                3.0             17.4           SIV          50            0               5              17              I                   2
ttn   of li       o ba. loan               0.  toat   bc                        1300            0.7              5607           09              30               3.2             01.7          94           26             Ii             I231
toI1oatucocacataot1t~~~        lu.   coolccnuc_  _tnlIic            1969            41 07            397           5I 297                                           7I I           90          301                            0              26             00                 V
31.  fllolnadop        1964            ~~~~             ~~~~~330  30I17  493           llti             3.0             01.4 IQ        63          30             03              21           .                 5                  74
39 "itl    oouto    n                   3. Coa o00                                             . 2~7           3607           385              40 6           2.51            17.6           43           3              00                    2        0             I
oOtcotioO   (7001.4  and 61     ~~~ ~~32~  5[-tAn-                    1972           7.1              290             2              11               3.35N           21.             1          3               S             17              04              I4
tolcatotcuc.ccoin-                 334ooau911                                           1.7              01040                          0                 44             14.            I4          32             439                            10            .                     1
ootoditopa     Oaotdtodo     3oo          4.  Ocnio                           It70          30.7               627           71              li               2.              1.14           to          46             09             230             23             2107                00
Ii tclIic  040 tuual-puilcc  9lctctgct                  1909           ~~~~        ~    ~~~~~        ~      ~     ~     ~~    ~~1.3  4307  54  10  2.    13.            80          34             13I2                                         ou                  is
34.5   lci-oaP_      cbcc            1971            106991                          1              4                5.              0.9             5          3               i700                                          01
37.  tctlt                046           9.0.8              4600          903             00               3.0             14,                        301            49             17,             "I             101                35
Iocntg    of56-099                                                      96I057                          4               32               3.4             20.7           97          40             33             31002                                             41
l"t clltnt1o09to-tc                        3.Clal                                 40           2.                 4              49             0                 .              19.4           993          316           09I n1                        04             23                   1
tobapcnclbccnu.                             10-                                 u1t 9710        6.16             3 9      S40    7                 V             32              ":13C          703I2t'7                                                  1             2  02
oubllcand  ocinoca bolootl.  41.  Cupuco                   ~~~~~          ~    ~~~~~~141  7.70  3707        801 'A           3               3.0             04.           977          331             07              720 31
laoaflacau-bjac u            iud.   '42.  Oa--uo,                         19170            .4              29             75                               0.0414                         090         2017                                                         23
latitc   Ptt  tihe  dato-          o   ~        tt-                            171            10.07             4521           72              00              4.3              71.           0            37             30            05              22             23                11
0210   o   oIaci-  It19 atnl                                   970           10.4              90             01             45                49              22.0          93           93            30             37              02             1                  39
oototla,oocal.  focoOO.aaltftt4ot  ~43    Chi1   13t.n7              071            14.00              10101         73              1                4-~0            13.9                                      500           161              907           217t
CiaquanI ly  0100 lliI,aclla2ucl                                                                                                                                                                                                                It A
th-na   opto dtt           ....bl .c ...  t47         p                         17~1         53.                  1             93i                               ,  070        ...            7153A                      2  911                          0A             01                  21
.c.o. ..     tiIautlt                    4 t. Idooj                           197           11.07                97           5II                                                                                                                                                         396 3.0  9  3  3  0  6 
lfltOuaOotIolctOooteOhntooo.    4~~~9.  on                           1737           29.77             3907           07              1I               1110.                          10          33             234             3              36X            2039
ootco  otto  can  Intl ooo cIa caoloo. ~~~~~~~~~t  Iooz ~1970               9,7              322           01               0907                             1.             104         222                                          2               79
50.                                  LIdo  070       0.0              050           551               7.0            4.6             17.09          43          34             35              0              22              1                 46
11  , tnt                            1071          30.8               253             I             130              3.              16.7          1002         36             41             49              36             20I17
12.   tlptoo                        0371             2.71 7           590           867             210              4.7             2.0            7                I0 7       4             31              05              4                02
133    OtoIoal                       197           00.9              390            It9B            01               4.7             13.31          890         01             00                             25             1I                 140
34.  Ina9172                                        0.1C             4441           20              02               2.3              3,4           240         330.2X                        23               4
54.   Oablacan        0373           64.0              104            30               1               1.3              8.0          40~         ~ 33             I              5             lIi9                               41F
~o    hLAIpcoa1970                              31.               21             32               6               36              199          0993                         7                              12 
lh~~li--    ~          1977           216               921           73              39               34              1.1            9            2             7       71              1                     1604192
7  ocoj                           97             02,              20             70              ID              3.77             0. 403                     3a             13 9           3               3i20
SI. Pnnocn  1410          35.47             36010          496              0              9.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5   17.1  029    32                032           14              33                                 41
oIl,   OnIon ccocOalubccc  11000   5.77              820           10               .7              1.2?~~3qO        9.4           920         469            11              34             lao          ..                     2
10080309 tOO 1tn70.Otttou~ ~ I80                                         L                                I.
lobe2foc54o0                                                                                607            410               57             iO          40             6i              0              59             54                 so
(,-,8)        (1-30)    ~ 1.0-9.01           (3.0-32.31       16.109)    000-714        1.0-21)         11-407          119.367         (1-04)           (0-457)
Quoctllna,   Ippac                                            76~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  10   7.7             2102 9                                    2921                                         2014
totdlan                                           ~~~             ~~~              ~~~~            ~~~~ ~        ~    ~ ~ ~~         ~~53  Lo  4.I  17.3  74  37  13  11     23             05                 72
bunt.-                                            ~~~              ~       ~       ~~~~            ~~~~      ~    ~~~        ~      ~    ~~~~25  6  3. _14.  12  30  0        0            10                   2
o               1ooocd   Oo  1hcc hulf cf ucc  aolntd                   C 0967                       10- Ol-lg f11-a11  aid                                         uoluta-    130  - (91 aod
o  Inclcaca  poo-I lao  alu-dnt                                  1-1090.y6lool                                                                               Cotn.o-   1105-12) o"Id
7-1973                     0-~ IcIcO tIooapenotn                                                             (1I,08003.atotconabok
G-1970                              -    I    -- noclo    0o .Idnt-dact                                                  an   onI__i.
I~1402                    l.tflaCrc t
Onaoti6  1973






hN: 2
a 0 N D U R A S
Primary and Secondary Educatiou
Enrollment by Grade, Contralling Authority and Sex - 1972
Public                            Private /2                        Grand Total
Level and Grade             Total        Boys       Girls         total      Boys      Girls         Total        Boys      Girls      |
PRIMARY                       385.200    195.163    190.037          '6.850    12.500    14.350        412.050    207.663    204,387
1.                         138,680      72,782      65,898        8,796 14,230          4,566   1147,476         77:012      70,464'
2.                          79,890      40,695      39,195         6,043     2,904      3.139        85,933      43,599      42,334
3.                          61,132      30,285      30,847        4,524      2,020      2,504         65,656     32,305      33,351
4.                          44,070      21,712      22,358         3,710     1,530      2,180         47,780     23,24~2    24,538
5.                          34,168      16,436      17,732         2,056       986      1.070         36,224     17,422      18,802
6.                          27,260      13,253      14,007         1,721       830        891         28,981     14,083      14,898
LOWER SECONDARY CYCLE            8.266      4.915       3.5          .i7.701    15.035    12.666         35.967      19.950     16.017
1.                           4,120       2,550       1,570        :3,336     7,462      5,874         17,456     10,012       7,444
2.                           2,515       1,424       1,091         8,289     4,388      3,901         10,804      5,812       4,992
3.                           1,631         941         690         6.076     3,185      2,891         -7,707      4,126       3,581
UPPER SECONDARY CYCLE            2,998      I.652       1      ,2.608            6.606     6.002         15.606       8,258       7._48
General                            749         502        247         3.171      2.211       960          3,920       2.713       1.207
1.                             450         312         138         1,845     1,276        569          2,295      1,588         707
2.                             299         190         109         1,326        935       391          1,625      1,125         500
Teacher Training                 1.548        556         992         2.118        654     1.464          3,666       1,210      2.456
1.                             588         201         387           756       260        496          1,344         461        883
2.                             495         185         310           684        188       496          1,179         373        806
3.                             465         170         295           678        206       472          1,143         376         767
Technical Industrial               269         269          _              _         .           _          269         269          -
1.                             105         105           -             _                                 105         105
2.                               90         90           -                                                90          90           -
3.                              74          74           -             -                     - 1          74          74           -
Commnercial                        262         155        107         6,289      3,740     2.54        _ 6.551        3895        2,656
1.                             127          77          50         3,036     1,838      1,198          3,163       1,915      1,248
2.                               80         47          34         1,933     1,123        809          2,013       1,170         843
3.                               55         31          23         1,320        779       542          1,375         810         565
Agricultural                       170         170           -             -         .          _            170        170           -
1.                               52         52           -             _          .                       52          52
2.                               59         59                                                             59        59
3.                               59         59           -             --                                 59          59           -
becretary                           _-           -                    1.030          1      1.029         1,030            1      1,029
1.                                _          _           _           572          1       571            572           1         571
2.                                           _           _           458          -       458            458           -         456
L    Excludea post-primary vocational courses
L2   Includes enrollment in semi-private schools
Source - Ministry of Education
November 1973






TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
Enrollment and Output
1971-1972
Enrollment                     Graduates
1971           19272          1971            1972
Type of Course                                Place                      Level                M.      F.    M.       F.    M.       F.    M.       F.
1. Technical Education
Bachillerato Tecnico                       Tegucigalpa             Upper Secondary (3 years)       95   -         93    -      23    _       18
Peritos Industriales (skilled workers)   Tegucigalpa               Post Primary     ( 4 yrs.)    524    89       465      63   45      9     40
Tecnicos Industriales (skilled workers)  San Pedro Sula            Upper Seoondaxy (3 years)    115   -          176    -      -      _      49
Evening Courses                            Tegucigalpa &             Variable
San Pedro Sula                                                        651
2. Commercial Education
Peritos  Mercantil y Contador Publico    Throughout the            Upper Secondary (3 ypp-r   2 3hR 1 347   1,895  ?76%6  171   15t          N.A.
country
Commercial Secretaries                          .                   pper Secondary (2 years)    -        659      1   1,029   -    215       N.A.
3. Other Vocational Education
Prevocational                              Sabanagrande            Post Primary      (3 yrs.)      57    50       46      41    4      7     N.A.
Dressmaking, Beauty, Typing
and Domestic Science, etc.                Throughout the            Variable (1-3 years)          10 1,520        8  1,748   -    648       N.A.
country                                                                                 
M = Male
F = Female
Source:  Oficina de Planeamiento Integral de la Educacion
November 197'3



ANNE  a
HONDURAS
E=o. cendit-'ure 1967 and 1972, and Projections to 1980, by Source of Finance
(in million current Lempiras)
Annual Rate
of Change              1967       1972Z1      1980/7
1967-72  1982-80                    Lps.
-orices)                  5-9      7.7L6         1,197.9   1,598.5    2,893.6
.blic 33evtwrne                      7.6     10.6             153.6      221.7      495.7
n-tral GOv> anent Revenue           8.2      11.0             128.9     191.5       442.7
Tax RewrelTe                       7.2      11.2            118.6      168,1       393.5
(as ,Ac U  GDP)                                            (9.9)    (10.5)      (13.6)
Expenditure                    9.0      10.8            178.3      274.2      622.3
Amtra~i Government Expenditure    9.8     10.5             144.5     230.2       512.4
(as %/ of GDP)                                            (12.1)    (14.4)      (17.7)
.c Education ExpenditureI        12.8     12.6              30.8       56.2      145.0
(as % of GDP)                                              (2 6)      (3.5)      (5.0)
(as % of Public EXpenditure)                              (17.3)    (20.5)      (23.3)
of Education Expenditure        11.8      11.7             26.2       45.7      110.4
(as % of Cqnt. Govt. Expend)                              (18.1)    (19.9)      (21.5)
PrimaryL2                    10.0      10.3             20.1       32.5       71.2
Secondary Academic           31 0                        2.0        7 .6      36.0
Secondary Vocational4         6:9)    1                  1.78       2.3
Teacher Training              8.6      9.7               0.7        1.1        2.3
Adult and Literacy            6.3       7.0              0.3        0.4        0.7
Central Administration        5.3      7.0               1.4        1.8        3.2
Other Ministries and UNAH            17.8      16.1               4.6      10.5        34.6
(as % of Cent. Govt. Expend)                              (3.2)      (4.6)      (6.8)
Ministry of Labor
Social Service College       -       -                 n.a.       0.1        0.2
INFOP/4                      -       -                             -         6.0
Min. of Natural Resources
Forestxy School              -       -                  -         0.3        0.6
Ministry of Health
Nu;ses' School             19.8      -                 0.015      0.037      1.0
UNAHL.2                      16.8     13.1               4.6       10.0       26.8
Excludes local governments' expenditures on education, but includes expenditures
of all government ministries and UNAH.
Includes preprimary schools.
.3/ Includes one agricultural school under Ministry of Natural Resources.
J National Vocational Training Institute.
, National Autonomous University of Honduras.
fj Lssu:ing a real growth rate of 5.8% p.a.
Fi .igures on public finance were obtained from the economic mission.
Consuplan, Min.  of Finance, Central Bank, Min. of Education,& mission estimates.
075



Public Investment in Education (1967 - 74 
(in '000 Lempiras)
Rate of                 * 
Total  Chwx       Total             Total    D-Total              .F.    Total    D _lP
1967-70                              1968               1969 12
Total Public Investuez.1  287,987    26.0  46,500   35,800    58,400   40,200  89,400   56,000    93,687   41,0Q54
Public Ed. Investment.Y    15,009    11.9    2 404    2,092      3,487    2,216   9 5,749    3,5T6   3,369    1.541
(as 7 of Public Invest.)    (5.2)            (5.2)    (5.8      (6.o)    (5.)   (6.4)    (s-.4       (3.7)    (3.8)
Central Govt. Investment  145,272    30.0   24,300   16,700    24,700   10,900 i43,000   24,900    53,272   18,113
Min. of Ed. Investment      9,131    29.0    1,104    1,104      2,060    1,027   3,581    1,,04      2,386    1,434
(as Z of Central Govt.      (6-3)            (4-5)    (6.6)      (8.3)    (9 4)   (8.3)    (6.o)     (h.5.9    (-.0)
Investment)
Primaryl&/                                 896      896       821      638   1,300      838       493       493
Secondary Acad.                              9        9     1,190      290   2,196      581  1 1664         712
Vocational Educ.                            46       46        47       47      83       83        229      229
Teacher Training                              2       2         2        2       2        2         _
Central Admin.                              151     151       n.a.     n.a.    n.a.     na. a      _
1970-74             197t              t9?2               1973>/              =66/
Total Pablic Investmeq    416,041    11.6   88,069  34,400    67,ooo   36,087 1t5,445    45,972  136,703   53,299
Public Ed. Investment2i    38 608    43.0     4 057   2 309      5 586    3,613  11,774     4,233   17,057    6.048
(as I of Public Invest.)    19.3)             t4.6)   t6.7)      17.4)   (10.0   (10.2)     (9.2)   (2.5)   (11.3)
Central Govt. Investment  242,611    11.5   55,827  16,466    42,698   20,538  57,968    21,575   86,118   26,734
Min. of Ed. Investment     28,907    41.0      3,452   2,025     3,915    2,666   7,987      3,521   13,421    5,267
(as Z of Central Govt.
Investment)           (11.9)             (6.2)  (12.3)      (9.2)   (13.0  (13.8)    (16.3)1 (15.6)   (19-7)
Pri,ary                                     376     259       461      300   1,634     1,634    1,380    1,187
Seoondary Acad.                          2,764   1,573      3,203    2,186   6,249     1,783    7,065    2,104
Vooational Educ.                            249     130       243      180      89         89    1,950      815
Teacher Training                              1       1        -        -        1          1    3,026    1,161
Central Admin.                              62       62         8       -       14         14       -        -
j'Investment in construction, machinery and equipment.
.2D. F. stands for Domestic Finance.
3/Includes University, social service school, forestry school and nurses' school, in addition to MiniBtry of
Education, but excludes non-formal training programs.
ldIncludes preprimary school.
V/Budget estimates.
/Government programs.
SOURCE. Consuplan, Ministry of Education.
November' 1973



HONDb- ,
Rlecurrent Ecxpenditure. for Education
(in million Lempiras)
Annual
Rate of Chane               1   6              j L                    _ O
1967-7X/  1972-80          Lps.                Tips                LPS
1. Central Government Expenditure       9.8       10.5        1144.5               230.2               512.4
2.     Current Ebcpenditure    2/       9.9        9*5        113.4      78.4      182.0      79.0     377.1      73.6
3e Public Expenditure on Educ.'        12.8       12.6         30.8                 56r2                145X4
14.    Curre-nt Expenditure            12.0       12.1         28.5      92.5       50.2      89.3      125.7     84.8
5. Min. of Education ExpenditureY      11.8       11.7          26.2                45.7               110.4
6.     Current Expenditure             10.7       11.2         25.1      95.5       41.8      91$5       97.4     85.3
(as , of 2)                                                     (22.1)                (22.9)              (25.8)
Primar.y/ '                   10.8       9.8          19.2                 32.0                67.7
Secondary AcademicG'                                   2.0)                 4 4
Secondary Vocational          17.1      17.4           1.6                  2.1)               235
Teacher Traininrg              9.        9.7           0.7                  1.1                 2.3
Idteracy and Adult             6.9       7.0            .3                   .4                  .7
Central Administration         6.8       7.0           1.3                  1.8                 3.2
7. Other Mirnistries and UNAB          17.8       15.8          4.6                  10$5                34.6
8.     Current Expenditure             22.3       16.4           3.4     73.9         8.)4    80.0       28.3     83.2
(as X of 2)                                                      (2.9)                 (4.6)               (7u5)
In 1972 unit costas but in current prices.
.L/Execludes local government expenditures, but includes UNAH; Govt. subsidy to INFOP is included, but all
other expenditures of IMFOP are excluded.
Y Ministry of Education expenditure includes expenditure for one agricultural secondary school under Sthe
*,Ministry of Natural Resources.  Subsidies to private schools aze also included.
i,Includes preprimary.
2/Includes primary school teacher training.
i/Includes secondary school teacher training only.
2/This period contains rather irregular years because a law was passed in 1968 which allowed sharp increases
in teacher salaries in 1969, 1970 and 1971.
SOURCES:  Consuplan, Ministry of Education and the mission's estimates.
November 1973



ANNEX?
HONDURAS
Technical Assistance
Estimated
Area                             Man/Years              Cost
v                                                              Experts  Fellowships  (US$ million)
1.  Ministry of Education                                                   0.060
a) Central Organization & Administration       2.0         -
2.  Primary Teacher Training                                               0.216
a) Organization & Administration               2.0         3
b) Educational Technologies                    2.0         3
c) Rural Education (Multigrade Teaching)       2.0         -
3.  Secondary Teacher Training                                              0.309
a) Organization & Administration               2.0         -
b) Industrial Arts (2 experts)                 3.0         -
c) Commercial Education                        1.0         -
d) Evaluation Techniques                       1.0         -
e) 12 Fellowships                              -          16.5
4.  Nonformal Technical Training (INFOP)                                   0.435
a) Organization & Administration               2.0         -
b) Instructor Training                         2.5         -
c) Training Standards & Trade Testing          2.0         -
d) In-Plant Training                           2.0         -
e) Fellowships
20 Training Officers                   -         20
20 Instructors                         -         10
5.  Agricultural Education                                                  0.240
a) Agricultural Education                      3.0         -
b) Animal Husbandry                            3.0         -
c) Fellowships                                            10
6. Project Implementation                                                   0.020
a) Architectural Design & Procurement          1.0         _
TOTAL - All Technical Assistance              30.5        62.5         1.280
TOTAL - Included in Project                   23.5        46.0         00971
/1 Funds already allocated in UNDP/Honduras Country Program
November 1973



00000. 3.'
(6.. 000 L..otF..)
1000.                   00330Cr 0000                        530U00NT   EXTE000N   GILOSS SQ.          SITE                                                                     STAFF0 HOUSE4S    PROF0.SSION.AL
PLACES   CONVEORSION  M0TER 404.4S    083010A100    00340NC  0000T31R0  0502I09         BUILDING  FURN1ITURE                         SO0.V000      S?ECIALMST   FE22AWOIOOPS    imlST1004        SOS
110        fty-t iF ConrlOoo..tt        1o09-t.i   & Ad..                                                                                                                                                           120.0                         120.0        60.0
Pr ..r T.4h- T-IiakoSool
210         L.4 E.p00-00  - 0.-05l. 001 "0000"               20         0           6,312             171.4         634.4      94.3      165.0         34.7.8      66.2           53.8              92.                                         106019.5      804.7
220         CoYo.,o. - E-o,I. 0o.o.0  "c.ot-  A-..7."   000             L.          3,779              01.0         400.2      027       163.          2st00.       03.0          31.3              60.9                                        1,229.1       614.0
230         0.o0- 000.000   "0.Po"                           S00        F           2,106              74.7         436.2      40.0      164. 40.7                   7.0          11.6              44.2                                          01.4        400.7
140                       - E.10                             5300T.-. 11   222  0   3 245              80.0         799.0       70.0      00.0                                                      54.3                                          893.3      646.7
3001.-   Appttp0o0ioFN,r  OrOoo.1               940         0          4.8000-                         13.0.       36.0       0.4                                                      25.1                                          303.5       033.7
3.o0,oiosO  6.o0.0.o,seo                                                                                                                              260.0          72.0           432.0      216.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300  2.  42t  16 
310         T.6o00ipP.  T- h-.o.  T-.0.,10  to11.gt
'7-i-oF  Morooo,"                            825        0           6,248             260.0         9M. 0     100.0      330.0                                                     100.7                                        1,640.2       430'0
004         k0so.010..   An IL..tIo  00-04003  Shoo1    430              0          2.763              09.6         380.0      08.0      107.3                                                      36.3                                          664.3       33'5.0
410                                           r-ol<OoV~oo10-lt.   ot..  2400  0     3,280              72.4         802 5       75.4     412.0                                                      46.2                                        1,014.5       207.3
Al           0p0500 T,,d,ttoi0 3F,00f.i. D.-. Coot-    -                 0            022              l0.0.O       203.4       70.0      61.6                                                      13.0                                          322.5       101.7
470         Sm 00400 0.1.                        C-.-0 r6o.  100  5734   0          3.853              gr0l 9       530.6      an 0      484.8                                                      49.6                                        1,232.0       617.5
T..h.OnnO A0.1.A00-                                                                                                                                                                                     560.0         360.0           070.0      435.0G
010         C.t.c... - .o,,ol  N-i-1 di. 0A401iOl',-   '(t'            E           2,475              12. 0        320.0      3%.7      240.1         206.0       641            32.5              49.7                                          990.0       093.3
220         C00ooo       AF. 400t03r.0  1 W     Co~-.-        00,       0             345              13.9          60.3       13.3      63.0          42.3        3.6           36.0              14.0                                          266.,       6012.2
0121        L.   ooo. -       po.6,-   . T-.lni,.    ,o-    5c                        406              I0.5          02.3       00.2      70.4          40.6         0.6          53.0              15.3                                          793.1       1464.2
823         L.. L.,Jo. -                        G--oO.F03ooOoco.  30    0             636              15.0          87.3      30.2       70.6          40.6        3.6           53.8              00.3                                          793.0       140.
T-hO,o6.l A..1o.9-o                                                                                                                                                                                     360.5         123.0           400.0       240.0
Poojoot 0001000t0t6.001                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40.0                                      40.0                          00.0       60.0
P00o.t 10.1 Eo.1,,44. Cmoti..ool,                                                                      966.0      5340.7        774.7   3,433.4         903.0       187.3         303.0             4133.1          1,3900.         35.0         03,760.3    G.,080,X
o4,yoIo.0                                                                                          94.3         544.4       30.'.    240.3          90.3        00.7          31.4               63.3                           -             .9.           00.9
C-t 9".I.ti-                                                             J8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~212. I'- 2,I,.3 02.0  372.3     103.0        20.8           00.2              F.t..3          200.0          67.8         2.302.4    1,9.M.
1000 ZoO.1.6o                                                                                      0..         ,603        133.      620.0         207.6       46.0           91.1              106.6           200.0           03.0         3,364.2    1767.1
006-30401                                                     0.2.3         3.990,0      60.1.4   3.1014.2      6,202.6      234.2          603.4             200.7          1,290.2         630.~~~~~~~~~~~  47,334.2 5 08662.2
496.1       2.876,9     470 4   2,949.4         316.1       182.2          164.4             123.0          1,440.7         634.0          9.933,6    4,906.
1/     Cod.          ftF1-t 0000
21  t0  .060                  241)
202     StE  COOI242)  Sit.. t0 . b.Iot
221     04.4...CooFld.             2403
271     E1 ToloAOo
222     1.-  09t.00
223     "IOo,.t
233     P0.0. B-odito
- Cot00 .,0000.117pOdo,d -t.torl..  .04 bo.ildin t016       t 0090 .0 1y.
All  .b_o 004  _r.40.1. 10_.I ..t-rI.1  to 6. ..ppli.d by ..oh .-ioty.
S'ito.Ok. oF 0,d.,otri4 Troilnn   Or-olP-,ot Ceoror 40,y 71 of bulldiog -oot.
It -.000010d th.t P-o300t ito. 410 0,0 4110,400 0. 10t.0 .40  tO.OO  20
N-o.b- 1973



HONDURAS
MUIT CAPITAL COSTS IN NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(in US Dollars) 1/
Gross area in    C?st per          Cost per student place or house
Category               m2 per student   m  of         2/ Construction   Furni-  Equip-
place or house   con8truction7  Site develop.   ture    ment   Total
1. ACADEMIC AND COMMJUNAL
FACILITIES
Primary Te cher Training
School23                      7.6           104.7            795.8        84.3   165.8   1,045.9
Secondary Teacher
Training College              7.5           101.3            763.0         90.9   200.3   1,054.2
Application Secondary Sch.       6.5            83.6            543.3         69.0   139.6      751.9
Vocational Training Centers    14.6             80.5          1,174.9        153.2   881.4   2,209.5
Farming Training Centers         9.1           107.1            975.0        101.0   704.0   1,780.0
2. BOARDING
Primary Teacher Training
School                        7.2            83.8            603.8        114.9    -         718.7
Farming Training Centers         8.1            83.5            676.6          90.0    -        766.0
3. STAFF HOUSING
Primary Teacher Training
School                      80              84            6,720            -       -      6,720
Farming Training Centers       100              84            8,400            -       -      8,400
1/ Professional fees, cost of land and contingencies not included.
2/ Average construction cost of academic and communal facilities include 100% of
site works, boarding and staff houses unit costs are on buildings only.
3/ Farm sheds (300 m2 not included).
November 1973



LO-NDU1RAS
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(u. s. s'tno0 !
Site       |                                                             Professional {          Technical Assistance
Development        Building           Furniture           Equipment           Services               ts         Fellowships         Total
_______                 LocalgForei n   Looal Foreig      n    Lcal  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  _Locaa  Forei    _ign  Lc    Forign
a)  Physical Increase             10%     10%    I  10%      10%        10%      10%       10%      10%        10%    10%       NA       NA       -        NA           8%
(Unforeseen)                               I |                                     .                  |                   _       _         I                  _
b)  Price Increase                18%     21%       18%      21%     |15%        15%       15%      15%        15%     8%        15%      15%               15%         18%
(Escalation)
c)  TOTAL                         28%     31%       2B%      31%        25%      25%7      25%     25%         25%    187        15%      15%      _        15%         26%
Total Project Cost               284      189       2,039   1,359       Ib8     312                                           i                                     i i,u  2by  48  oS  626  _.6o
(Without Contingencies)
a)  Physical Increase             29       19    |   204       136       17       31         6       118       27       4          _        _                            591
b)  Price Increase                51       40         367      285       25      47          9        177      40       5          10      94      -         41        1,191
c)  Total Contingencies           80       59    j  571        421   142          78        15        295      67       9          10      94      -         41        1,782
Total Project Cost               364      248       2,610   1,780       210      390        77     1,475      336      56          79     720      _        317        8,662
(Including Contingencies)
November 1973



HONDURAS
Recirrent Rxpenditure of Project Institutions in 1980
(in '000 1970 Lps.)
1980                                      1972           Difference
No. of Institute/         Personnel  Non-Personnel   Materials    Fellouwships
Enrollment                 Serrices   Services        & S"pPl4es   & Subsidies   Total       Total          1980 - 1972
All Institutions
Total                                            3,233.0         180.7        1,391.4        922.8      5,727.9    2,526.3            3,201.6
()                                                 (56.7)         (3.1)         (24.3)         15.9      (100.0)
Institutions 1 - 6                                          1,975.9        180.7         273.9         922.d      3,353.3    2,526.3              827.0
1. Primary Teacher Training
School                    4     2,000               604.h          36.0          36.0          80.o       756.4    1,lOO.5V             -344.1
2.  Application Primary School   12         960               124.1          5.6           10.4          -          140.1       -                 140.1
3. Secondary Teacher Training
College                   1      1,600             699.o          83.2           25.6         664.o30   1,471.8    1,102.0               369.8
4. Application Secondary School   1         840              191.0         15.1            15.1            -        221.2       -                 221.2
5. Agricultural Secondary School  1         240              220.5         22.8           168.8        103.2        515.3       323.8             191.5
6. Agricultural Training Centers  3    1,000                 136.9         18.0            18.0          75.6       24-8.5      -                  248.5
7. INMP'-'                                8,490            1,257.1           -          1,117.5            -      2,374.6       -                2.374.6
It Inclides two vtcational training centers and the Industrial Training Development Center.
-'Estimated by uging the unit oost of the secondacy academic education and the government subsidies provided to private ochoole
for teacher training.
A 20% increase over the 1972 level.
SOURCE: Ministry of Ed.cation. Ministry of Natural Resources and mission's estimates.
November 1973



3 3                ,  74a191                  | 12   i 6  | 14   1           r     .
Y.nisty of Education                     I                                                                   '
Constnoction                    p1p ..               *** ..3    *              *X **
I ;',svetwre& EbquipmentNnNnT  t1s  ZZZ  VW   www  www vvv  wv  I Vvw  vw s occ' oaoo                         
Ro.fe,s.ional Services          0     ooo o       oo X 3 2 W x xc  WxV VV  j    VV  V    xx: 0
ezesoc      x m     xxx m        xx
Technical ?- Central Admin.                MME:E     EEE  EE2  E:E  EEE       | EEEj
Assistance)- Teacher Train.                                          EE   EE  EEED *      EEE
)- Fellowships                                                       W _  |  S
Cone3'raction                                          ..   /// i |PP                          :t x+  ,-WI  ..    ..    ...  |...    Ezt  
I urite &  qimn                   ""|""|""tzzz  zzz www |www | ww | vvv v v I vvv tvvv Ioool oo l             I     I         f
|Profeosional Services         |       0 ,0   00 |X ooo X|X ooo                            XXX oo      o     c|xx     m1m       c4 n      
| Technical Assisutarce       1                  z   z                                      v  coo
- Excpertst                    EECEE RR  EEE IEEE  BEE E IREE m   EEE  MMiR   EME:E                        
q- Fellowshipsent                               : loss  +44 |*4 5SS    |8S4 44                             | 4  
________g    -- |  I                                       -- -_      I  __t 
-z1                           1    '    I    I    I    I    i    III_I    I    I                       I     I    I              1
Conetruction                                             1 |           P   si          *** *.
Furniture & Equipment           "a "   """          Iass        www                      I Wf   vvv I   vv  co
Professional Servicee                 000  000  joo                                 j    jC xx      !    , 3
Technical Assistance                                                                     I    i                    !
- Experts                                EEE  EE  EEE EKE EK   EEE    EEE   M               EE  EKE MM
- Fellowships                -|B   SSS  BS|  |BS  SS|  SSS  SSS  SSS
|ProJeot t1nit
Technioal Assistance                       EEC  BEE  EBB  EEE             -              I           -
*
Time  allowances to be adjusted to minimum periods by detailed project unit programming.
CIVIL WORKS A2lD_POFEKsIOJAL S1RVICE8:                        3BN1l'I MD E:QllIlT:
Acquisition and survey of sites                         "  Preparation of master lists
P   Contraeto^s' prequalification                           z   Preparation of bid documents
9  Selection and appointment of consultants                 w   Tender and contract awarding
o   Design                                                  v   Nauafacturing and reception
Preparation of construction bid documents               o   Installation
+   Tender and contract awarding
*   Construction
x   Field sup3rvision                                           ICAL ASSISTANCE
Guarantee period                                       E   Experts
November 1973                                                     S   Fellowships



ANNEX 13
HONDURAS
First Education 'roject
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$'ooo)
TOTAL EXPEIDITURES Unibre           eryPn,o                                   IA
TOTAI EXPEhBITS                            REDlBURSE:ME21T - BANK/Ina J1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RZBRSM    AN/1)
Disburse-  Accumulated Undisbursed  Yearly Amt. of Disburse-  Accumulated    Unli.sbursed
Quarter mlents    Disbursements   Balance    Local FinancinR  ments       Disbursemants      Balance
1         30          30         8,670                          20            20          5,980
2         85         115         8,585                         60             80          5,920
3        160         275        8,425                         110            190          5,810
4        160         435         8,265          135           110            300          5,700
5        220         655         8,045                        150            450          5,550
6        360       1,015         7,685                        250            700          5,300
7        610       1,625        7,075                         420         1,120            4,880
8        655       2,280        6,420           575           450         1,570           4,430
9        680       2,960         5,740                        470         2,0140          3,960
10        755       3,715         4,985                        520         2,560           3,440
11      1,015       4,730         3,970                        700         3,260           2,740
12      1,015       5,745         2,955         1,075          700         3,960           2,040
13      1,260       7,005         1,695                        870         4,830           1,170
14        930       7,935           765                        640         5,470             530
15        625       8,560           140                        430         5,900             100
16        140       8,700           -             915          100         6,000             -
IBank/IDA disbursement estimated about one quarter following total expenditure
November 1973






HONDURAS
Organization Chart
Ministry of Education
Secretaria de Educacion
rm__________________--b PlbIica                                                                                    *_____                      m___m_ m_______
Subsecretaria
UNESCO                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Spro
|ficina de Panificaci6n I
nsituto Nacional                                        ItegradeaCmsn
UNIJ:ICEF    |_*|                      Asescri' Juridca       |e |             ubilaciones                                           Educacicln                                                                            Reforma
|           | - I          II          
Escusla   icos                                              Departamento                                                                     Nacional
Ser  Administracin                           cnAlfabesizacion                                                                        de rnaiEn
General                                    e6n                                                   yrEd. tAdude onal                                                                  d 
USAID          A
DepartementoudtoriEv luacinPanla
CARE           -
Direccio'n General de                      DrcinGeneral de                                 Direccio~n General de                           Educacidn Artistica y
Educacidn Primaria                          Educecion Media                                Educaci6n Tecnica y Vocacional                  Ext Cultu
Educacion             Educacion              Cico,Educacidn                                                            Educacin             Casa de a
Pre-Primaria          Primaria               Ciclo,                                            Agropecuarie                erc              Culture
Material    |-          bEsolares          Supervision           Orientacidn                              IEducacialn                        acioioa
Educativo                                                                                                                                       i
World Bank-7823






HONDURAS
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
AND TRAINING 1972
LABOR FORCE
UNIVERSITY
GENERAL
----  DROPOUT ROUTE                                                                               T H  TRAINING
..    NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                                                                        _OES_A
=]AND TRAINING                                                                         _=
INSTITUTIONS INCLUDED                                 PRIMARY
IN PROPOSED PROJECT                             --l RAI I  I
OCAT L  _SOCIAL SERVICES
L~~~~~~~ A ARCULTURAL
TECH N ICAL     1           FOESTR Y_
SECRETARY 
COMMERC                                                         TECHNICIANS
AG ULUAGRICULTUR
COMMON CYCLE               L-------4
PRIMARY  PRIMARY                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORA
UNSKILLED
L-                                                           EEDUCATION                   AND
VOCATIONAL                                                                                SEMIE WORKERS
GRADES  1    2    3    4    5    6 ~~~~~-1   8_    910           10 11K12ER45S
AGE  1  8  9 1011  12                     13141516   161118C19202122232425
-   I NDUSTRIAL                                                 ITANG          |
PR E-llC,
PRIMARY                 PRIMARY                                 S          E                                     HG ER EDUCATION
I ~     LOE  CYCL                UPPE CYCLE1A 
WorUNSKILLED
__________________-______-__--__-----------~  wDUCATION|WORKER
GRADES             2    3    4    5    6    _                                            _ 9  0 I0 11 12                              
AGE          7    8    9    10  Ill   12              1 3   14   1 5   1 6    16   1    18             l 9   20   21   22   23   24   25                             l
|    PRIMARY EDUCArION      ||                 SECONDARY EDUCATION        -            < -       HIGHER EDUCATION         W-|                        *
LOWER CYCLE             UPPER CYCE                                                                             F-H
| < > > | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-7825(R)






HONDURAS
EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS if
1972
Percent of
Grades   Total                                                                                                                                                                               Total      Le!el          Age Group
7       197                                                                                            160  17
6      400                                                                                             340  80
5      500                                                                                            420   90
4      500                                                                                            750  130                                                                             8,197      Hither            3%
13 1300                                                                                              1,070   230
2     2,000                                                                                         1,630    390
1     2,900                                                                                         2,32D     580
12     2.651
11     5,424                                                 8t't                                 1,319          1,332                                  Girs
10      7,531                                                                                     2.817          2,607                                                                     158606   1uppe Secondary   9%
4,122            3,409 
9     7,707                                                                                    4,126              3,581
8    10,804                                                                                 5,812                  ,992                                                                    35,97      Lower Secondar   19%
7    17,456                                                                              10,012                        7.444
a    28.981                                                                         14 t8                     4 , 8         9
0    38,2241742880
4    47,780                                                                232.042                                                     P2mary e1
6 565614,7                                       <                                                                                                                                           I;0XA7X  4o{rmv
P.   11.54i4                                                                                    5.100               8,..  444                                                               11,544 {  Pre Primary       7':o
60,000               40,000                20,000                  0                  20,000                40,000                50,000         I4
1/ Enrollment ,rnlude. ntve-e1et PUanda                                                                                                                                                                 Piaorl dtanS-784     
2/ ncbida5 anmre sty and nor-aiiemsiry courses, anrd
nnrolilnnant di-tr,ibutirn by trado and ta,,eatI tooimted






RN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       B~~~~~~~CTA  SY~~~~~~~~~~~~UASA  ~       ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~ ~                  ~      iBRD 10563p
ISAD   StAND
C A RT SB S A N                                        RNA   SADSEA
ITLUSLANA
50_55EN     1R0,1
U   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .   .   . ...I z
{->~~~~ ~~                  -CORINTO ~~~~S. PEDRO 
MILIA       Cti-ELCCON                                                LA VSGA
ICIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC  ORA  -IA GRND
/                 -IN~~   ~~ ~    ~ A    R  B    A  KSAN                                       OR                                                                           UKEN MR
El 'ARAI                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    L   A   N   C    H   0
CC PARAISO      -RA ~ T     SON  IOl-A~I
MANTO         SAN FRANCISCO     52
L A                                                                                      'A 'AZ~~~~~~~~SSOU  ABT 
ON                                                                                                                                                                                                          . DEOROA0C
I  ROSA                                              D        El P~~~~~~~~ ~                    ~      ~~op  GIR0-Ay5
U                TT~~~DCOPAN
NOCOO  S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COCPI
OCOTESEOCT  -1   5                                                     AGASTECA~~~~~~SIJATPE                                              RA
L  F N  P I B  A    I    ENPRAUNVA   STA~~~~~~~~~~~                              A 
RN     5,,~~~~~~~~~~~~INT                                CAAT
BUM BBR'RNAUB  NNN        ERAND 0                                                                                                                                                                                              HONDAURA$ 2  LANG
UARITA  ERAN.1  A  AMAN I                  5ANTA       01AS ANIMAS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~*                                                               CIR  COASSNTARRNOO.L 
-1  TEGUCIGAL                                                    o                                                                    E~~~~~05 ~~IQ  R't) CA TIJ N(ORASN  PRRRAOA.
APSPILRCR.TTURNRIACCO YAA55 -RROLI
AUTERIQUE  MARA    L FARAISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCJTTMOCAFSN OTOT
F   t  SAL  A   ~~~~~~~~~)-OR<                SANGOR       5          1                                                                                                                                  NOES. T~~~~~~~OO    APLIAlON S RE(V)t4RYSRPS7TAB'S
VO___ CARTIORNALLTRUSSI,TE
00SF   OF  SR 0  TRONCO                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE   *  O   ckus                                         E    - TIR
IT'  85'                      ~~~~~~*s'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NQVOM~~~~~~R RP1~IUN



