CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 452 HO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 452 HO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 197; between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the latter hereinafter called the Bank, and said loan agreement
hereinafter referred to as the Loan Agreement) by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Loan Agreement the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower Upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:


﻿4
"9. The term "Project" means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Bonds or the Loan Agreement
(as such two terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement)."
(d)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(e)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Bonds or the Loan Agreement (as such two terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), and such default shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank or the
Association to the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Bonds" means bonds executed and delivered by the Borrower
pursuant to the Loan Agreement; and such term includes any such bonds issued
in exchange for, or on transfer of, Bonds as herein defined; and
(c)   The several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as stated in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, or
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and services (other than services
of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October,
1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in such
Schedule 3.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 1984, and ending August 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on August 15, 1993 to be one-half of


﻿6
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. Articles III and V and Sections 4.02 through 4.05, inclusive,
of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 1 (together with its Exhibit), 3 and 4 thereto
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that (i) all references to
the Bank in such Articles, Sections and Schedules or in any of them shall be deemed
to be references to the Association, and (ii) all references to the Loan in such
Articles, Sections and Schedules or in any of them shall be deemed to be references
to the Credit.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan or the Bonds shall remain
outstanding and unpaid, all action taken, including approvals given, by the Bank
pursuant to the Articles and Sections of the Loan Agreement enumerated in Section
3.01 of this Agreement, or of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement, shall be deemed
to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the
Association; and all information furnished by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant
to such provisions, shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿7
Section 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaraLion such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INFOP or for the
suspension of its operations: and
(b)   Decree Law No. 10 of the Borrower, dated December 28, 1972, shall
have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect the Project adversely.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿8
(a)   the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b) the Project Unit has been established as required by Section 3.01(c)
of the Loan Agreement; and
(c)   the Project Director and the Project Architect or Engineer referred
to in Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date April 9, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.05, inclusive, of the Loan Agreement incorporated by reference in Article III
of this Agreement shall cease and determine oin the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or oin a date thirty (30) years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Crdito Ptblico of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
CrOdito Piblico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa, Honduras


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Roberto Galvez Barnes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Furniture and
Equipment
(a)  For Part D of             570,000           100% of foreign
the Project                                expenditures or
100% of ex-factory
price
(b)  For other edu-          1,110,000           100% of foreign
cational and                               expenditures or
training insti-                            100% of ex-factory
tutions                                    price
(c)  For the Proj-              20,000           100% of foreign
ect Unit                                   expenditures or
100% of ex-factory
price
11.  Civil Works (includ-
ing architectural
consultants' fees)
(a)  For Part D of             400,000          52% of total
the Project                                expenditures
(b)  For other edu-          1,770,000          52% of total
cational and                               expenditures
training in-
stitutions


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
III.  Technical Assistance
(a)   For INFOP                 220,000            100% of foreign
(Part G(ii)                                  expenditures
of the Proj-
ect)
(b)   For other                 410,000            100% of foreign
purposes                                     expenditures
(Part G(i),
(iii), (iv)
and (v) of
the Project)
IV.   Fellowships
(a)   For INFOP (Part           180,000            100% of total
G(ii) of the                                 expenditures
Project)
(b)   For other pur-             90,000            100% of total
poses (Part G                                expenditures
(i),(iii),(iv)
and (v) of the
Project)
V.   Unallocated                    1,230,000
TOTAL        6,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   tern  "foreign  expenditures"   means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures in respect of items under Categories I(a), 11(a), III(a) and
IV(a) of the table set out in Paragraph I of this Schedule, unless the contractual
arrangements between the Borrower and INFOP provided in Section 3.01(b) of
the Loan Agreement have entered into force and have received the prior approval
of the Association and the Bank; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account referred to
in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above


﻿13
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurcment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Association and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as in the
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of
the proceeds of the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


