Page  1
ARTF GRANT NUMBER TF054729 
 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust 
Fund Agreement 
 
(Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(acting
 
as Administrator of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund) 
 
Dated                                               , 2005 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
ARTF GRANT NUMBER TF054729 
 
ARTF GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                           , 2005, between ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (the “Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of 
grant funds (the “Grant Funds”) contributed by various donors (collectively the 
“Donors”) to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (“ARTF”).  
 
WHEREAS (A) the Donors have agreed to provide the Grant Funds to the 
Recipient in support of its reconstruction program; 
 
(B) 
the Donors have requested the Administrator, and the Administrator has 
agreed, to administer the Grant Funds; 
 
(C) 
the Administrator has established ARTF for purposes of receiving and 
administering the Grant Funds; 
 
(D) 
the Grant Funds shall finance, among other things, such investment 
and/or sector programs and activities as shall from time to time be recommended by the 
Recipient and approved by the Management Committee of ARTF; 
 
(E) 
the Administrator has received the Recipient’s National Urban Program, 
which sets out the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the 
Recipient’s water supply and sanitation short-term and medium-term objectives 
(hereinafter called the Program). 
 
(F) 
the Recipient having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project, which forms part of the short-term strategy of Recipient’s Program, described in 
Schedule 2 of this ARTF Grant Agreement (the Project), has requested the Administrator 
to assist the Recipient in financing part of the costs of carrying out the Project. The 
Administrator has agreed to provide financing in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in this ARTF Grant Agreement (such financing, the “ARTF Grant”); 
and 
 
(G) 
the Recipient  intends to obtain additional funds in the amount of twenty 
one million United States Dollars (US$21,000,000) from the ARTF Donors through the 
Management Committee of ARTF for the completion of the Project; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this ARTF Grant 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.04, 4.05; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) Section 
12.01(b). 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Credit” or “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the ARTF Grant;  
 
(iii) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
conditions, means the ARTF Grant Account; and 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(iv) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this ARTF Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this ARTF Grant Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Preamble to this ARTF Grant Agreement shall have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ARTF Grant Account” means the account maintained by the 
Administrator in which the ARTF Grant is deposited; 
 
(b) 
“ARTF Grant Special Account” means the account to be opened by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 2.02(b) of this ARTF Grant Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“CAWSS” means Recipient’s Central Authority for Water Supply and 
Sewerage referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Effective Date” means the date on which this ARTF Grant Agreement 
shall become effective in accordance with Section 6.01 of this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
 
(e) 
 “Environment and Social Safeguards Framework” means the Recipient’s 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, furnished to the Administrator, which 
sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key policy principles for social and environmental management; 
(ii) measures to guide the screening of activities for significant social and environmental 
impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that 
these principles and measures are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity 
building and monitoring, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this ARTF Grant Agreement;  
 
(g) 
“Kabul Municipality” means the Kabul Municipality established under 
the laws of the Recipient referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this ARTF Grant 
Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Mine Risk Management Procedures” means the Procedures for mine 
risk management in World Bank-funded projects in Afghanistan, as described in 
Attachment 5 to the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework and that prescribes 
various measures and procedures to be followed for carrying out activities that could 
involve, or could potentially involve, exposure or contact with unexploded ordinances or 
mines; 
 
(i) 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient; 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(j) 
 “MUDH” means the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing; 
 
(k) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan covering 
the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same
 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to 
this ARTF Grant Agreement, to cover succeeding twelve (12) month periods (or longer) 
of Project implementation; 
 
(l) 
“Operations Manual” means the operations manual prepared for the 
functioning, implementation and monitoring arrangements of Part E of the Project; 
 
(m) 
 “Special Disbursement Unit” means the Special Disbursement Unit 
established by the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient maintained in accordance with  
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Strategic Sanitation Plan” means an operational framework for the 
management and development of sanitation facilities (including network and onsite 
systems for solid waste, wastewater and drainage) that addresses institutional, financial 
technical, social and environmental health issues, referred to in Part D.3 of Schedule 2 to 
this ARTF Grant Agreement; and 
 
(o) 
“Consultancy ToRs” means the Terms of References prepared by the 
Recipient for consultancies providing the necessary technical assistance services, to 
support the overall implementation, functioning, supervision of contracts, and monitoring 
of all parts of  Project.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The ARTF Grant 
 
Section 2.01. (a)  The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this ARTF Grant Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million United States Dollars 
(US$20,000,000).
 
(b)  
Additional Grant Funds may be added to the ARTF Grant as Donor 
contributions to ARTF are made from time to time. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such contributions and any ensuing increase in the amount of the 
ARTF Grant, and shall take all necessary action required on its part to modify this ARTF 
Grant Agreement in order to reflect the increase in available ARTF Grant funds. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the ARTF Grant may be withdrawn from the 
ARTF Grant Account  in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this ARTF 
Grant Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
Page  7
-
5
-
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the ARTF Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the ARTF Grant, open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
ARTF Grant Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this ARTF Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Minister of Finance, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, or any 
person whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this ARTF Grant Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date. Withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received 
by the Administrator within four (4) months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the ARTF Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the ARTF Grant Account shall 
be canceled.   
 
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the ARTF Grant (including 
deposits into the ARTF Grant Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that, 
adequate resources to meet such disbursement have been transferred from the Donors to 
the ARTF. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this ARTF Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through MUDH, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with  appropriate urban water supply and sanitation, administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this ARTF Grant Agreement, and with the environmental, social and other 
principles, measures, procedures and guidelines set out in the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the ARTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this ARTF Grant Agreement, as such provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish such update to the Administrator 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Administrator’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6)
 
months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Unless otherwise agreed by the Recipient and the Administrator, no 
expenditures for works required for the Project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the ARTF Grant, unless the Recipient shall have carried out an 
environmental assessment for the Project, and shall have undertaken processes and 
activities to mitigate any negative environmental impacts
 
of
such Project in accordance 
with the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework.  
 
Section 3.05. Unless otherwise agreed by the Recipient and the Administrator, no 
expenditures for works involving land and asset acquisition, entitlements and 
compensation, required for the Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the ARTF Grant, unless the Recipient shall have submitted evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator that any land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Administrator adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(b) 
The Recipient shall:  
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Administrator), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Administrator; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the ARTF 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:  
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the ARTF Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and  
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Administrator), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph (B) of Schedule 4
 
to this ARTF Grant Agreement, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a Financial Monitoring Report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the ARTF Grant and explains 
Page  10
-
8
-
variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the  
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the
 
Administrator not later than
 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Administrator 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that additional funds from ARTF Donors 
shall have not been received; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph 
shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this ARTF Grant 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. This ARTF Grant Agreement shall become effective upon signature 
thereof by the parties hereto and shall continue in effect until the ARTF Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this ARTF Grant Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder, whichever occurs first. 
 
Section 6.02. Upon effectiveness of this ARTF Grant Agreement, the 
Administrator shall be allowed to disclose this ARTF Grant Agreement and information 
regarding the ARTF Grant i
n
accordance with the Administrator’s policy on disclosure of 
information. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 6.03. The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Administrator 
under this ARTF Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with 
their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the 
contrary. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this ARTF Grant Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(acting as Administrator of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust 
Fund) 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the ARTF Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the ARTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the ARTF Grant to such 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in the Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
ARTF Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
U.S. Dollars Equivalent)
to be Financed
Consultants’ services,  
20,000,000 
          100% 
 
Training, Goods, Civil 
 
Works, and Operating 
 Costs 
 
__________ 
TOTAL 
 
 
    20,000,000 
 
 
=========  
 
 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means eligible 
operating and maintenance expenses associated with CAWSS operations, as per the 
provisions of the Operations Manual, and  excluding arrears of salaries and operating and 
maintenance costs as of date.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this ARTF Grant 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the ARTF Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works under 
contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent; (iii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; (iv) 
training; and (v) Operating Costs
,
all under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount of the 
ARTF Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this ARTF Grant 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to 
the Administrator for deposit into the ARTF Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the 
amount so used. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide sustainable, improved water 
supply and sanitation services to the urban segment of the Afghan population; (ii) build 
the technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term UWSS program; and (iii) 
ensure continuity of investment by benefiting from the implementation arrangements 
already in place and fully operational.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Kabul Water Supply 
Construction of the Upper Kabul River wellfield, and associated transmission 
mains, reservoirs and distribution networks. 
 
Part B
:
Kabul Sanitation - Wastewater, On-site Sanitation and Solid Waste
Acquisition of equipment and construction of new facilities, including a 
workshop, a septage disposal station, a solid waste transfer station and the first stage of a 
new sanitary solid waste landfill. 
 
Part C
:
Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
Provision of water supply and sanitation services in provincial towns through: 
(i) completion of rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems and initial 
expansion of systems in selected provincial towns; and (ii) new construction of systems 
in towns which are not served by a water supply network.   
Part D
:
Engineering Support and Technical Assistance to CAWSS and to Kabul 
Municipality 
(1) 
Rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems, through the 
carrying out of technical studies and construction supervision, consistent with the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, for selected water supply systems and 
construction packages.  
 
(2) 
Provision of systems operation and management support, including 
capacity building, human resources management, technical support for financial 
monitoring, water quality control, and awareness campaigns and involvement of 
communities. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
(3) 
Conducting technical studies, engineering designs and construction 
supervision for solid waste management and sanitation investments, consistent with the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, including updating the Strategic 
Sanitation Plan. 
Part E
:
Financial Support to the CAWSS Operations
Provision of financial support for the operations of CAWSS, according to 
eligibility criteria, functioning, implementation, and monitoring arrangements specified 
in the Operations Manual. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Administrator
 
of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions of the Annex to this 
Schedule. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
.
Small works estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under the following method: 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Administrator
 
of
Procurement Decisions
A. Except 
as 
the 
Administrator
 
shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Administrator:  
 
1.  
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more; 
 
2.  
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; 
 
3
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and 
 
4. 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
B. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Administrator. 
 
Page  19
-
17 - 
 
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Administrator shall be 
used. 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Administrator. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Administrator. 
 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Administrator; 
 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Administrator
 
(A) for the first request for extension if 
it is longer than eight (8) weeks, and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
 
(xvi) Re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Administrator’s prior 
concurrence; and 
 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, Consultancy ToRs, Strategic Sanitation Plan, and the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the overall management and 
coordination of the Project in MUDH. MUDH shall ensure that CAWSS and Kabul 
Municipality have the overall responsibility for the implementation of Parts A, C, D and 
E, and Part B of the Project, respectively. MUDH shall, together with the heads of 
CAWSS, Kabul Municipality and Special Disbursement Unit within the Ministry of 
Finance, have responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The allocations of responsibility contained in paragraph (a) above may 
be changed by the Recipient only with the Administrator’s written consent. 
 
3. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall maintain the Special Disbursement Unit in its 
Ministry of Finance in form and with functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Administrator, for the purposes of preparing withdrawal applications, 
transfer of payments, accounting, reporting and obtaining audits. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause MUDH to assign a Chief Financial Officer  
responsible for the oversight and supervision of the activities mentioned in paragraph (a) 
above, and to support the Special Disbursement Unit to carry out such activities with 
appropriate financial procedures acceptable to the Administrator.  
 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Chief Financial Officer of MUDH and  
procurement specialists of CAWSS and Kabul Municipality, all suitably qualified and 
experienced and acceptable to the Administrator, will be assigned to the Project 
throughout its execution. 
 
5. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the environmental and social risks mitigation, monitoring and other 
measures set forth in the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework in accordance 
with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set forth 
therein, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such implementation. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, vary, or waive any provision of the Operations Manual, Consultancy ToRs, 
Strategic Sanitation Plan, and the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
 
if, in 
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
the opinion of the Administration, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall cause the MUDH to coordinate the implementation of the 
Project and prepare the reports referred to under paragraphs B of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator semi-annually beginning six (6) months 
after the Effective Date a report, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Administrator, no later than three (3) months from the 
date specified in sub-paragraph (b) above, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Administrator’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  23
-
21 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the ARTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the ARTF Grant Account and deposited into the 
ARTF Grant Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the ARTF Grant Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the ARTF 
Grant Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the ARTF Grant Special Account shall be made 
as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the ARTF Grant Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the ARTF Grant Account and deposit into the 
ARTF Grant Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the ARTF 
Grant Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
Page  24
-
22 - 
 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the ARTF  
Grant Account and deposit into the ARTF Grant Special 
Account such
 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the ARTF Grant Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Administrator from the ARTF Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the ARTF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this ARTF Grant Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this ARTF Grant Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the ARTF Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the ARTF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the ARTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the ARTF Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the ARTF Grant Special
 
Page  25
-
23 - 
 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or 
(B) deposit into the ARTF Grant Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the ARTF Grant Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the ARTF Grant Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the ARTF Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this ARTF 
Grant Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
