                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001846



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-54729)



                                       ON A

                    MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 41 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR AN

  AFGHANISTAN SHORT TERM URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
                          PROJECT



                              November 30, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective 09/06/2011)
                      Currency Unit =Afghanistan Afghani
                              1.00 = US$ 0.02113
                               US$ 1.00 = 47.33

                          AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR
                            March 21- March 20

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFMIS       Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ARTF        Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
AUWSSC      Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation
CAWSS       Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage
CSR         CAWSS Staff Rules
EIRP        Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project
ESMF        Environmental and Social Management Framework
FMR         Financial Monitoring Report
Grd. Res.   Ground Reservoir
GRMs        Grant Reporting and Monitoring system
GRP         Glass Reinforced Plastic
HDPE        High-Density Polyethylene
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
KFW         Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KM          Kabul Municipality
lpcd        Liters per capita per day
M&E         Monitoring and evaluation
MDGs        Millennium Development Goals
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MoUD        Ministry of Urban Development
MUDH        Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
NGO         Nongovernmental organization
NPP         National Priority Program
O&M         Operations and Maintenance
PDO         Project Development Objective
PRTs        Provincial Reconstruction Teams
SDU         Special Disbursement Unit
TTL         Task Team Leader
USAid       United States Agency for International Development
UWSS        Urban Water Supply and Sanitation



                                      ii
   Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero
  Country Director:           Nicholas J. Krafft
  Sector Manager:               Ming Zhang
Project Team Leader:            Shyamal Sarkar
 ICR Team Leader:            Raja Rehan Arshad




                       iii
                                       AFGHANISTAN
               Afghanistan Short Term Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project




Table of Contents

Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 19
  6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 43
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 55
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56
  MAP




                                                                 iv
                                     Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                 ARTF - Afghanistan
                                                                 Short-Term Urban
Country:            Afghanistan            Project Name:
                                                                 Water Supply and
                                                                 Sanitation Project
Project ID:         P092162                L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-54729
ICR Date:           09/06/2011             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                 GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                    Grantee:
                                                                 AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                    USD 20.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 41.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 41.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 MoUD - Ministry of Urban Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
    Process            Date           Process          Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept
                  09/13/2004      Effectiveness:        02/21/2005
Review:
Appraisal:                        Restructuring(s):                      03/27/2010
                                  Mid-term
Approval:         02/18/2005
                                  Review:
                                  Closing:              12/31/2007       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               High
Bank Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory

                                          v
Quality of            Moderately             Implementing             Moderately
Supervision:          Satisfactory           Agency/Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank          Moderately             Overall Borrower         Moderately
Performance:          Unsatisfactory         Performance:             Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                        Rating
    Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                             Quality at Entry
Project at any time     Yes                                          None
                                             (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                        Yes                                     None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector      100                  100




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                            33                33
Other urban development                                         67                67

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero               Praful C. Patel
Country Director:       Nicholas J. Krafft               Alastair M. Mckechnie
Sector Manager:         Ming Zhang                       Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader: Shyamal Sarkar                      Christophe E. Bosch
ICR Team Leader:        Raja Rehan Arshad
ICR Primary Author:     Tahir Akbar




                                            vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(i) To provide sustainable, improved water supply and sanitation services to the urban
segment of the Afghan population
(ii) To build the technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term UWSS
programme
(iii) To ensure continuity of investment by benefiting from the implementation
arrangements already in place and fully operational

(a) PDO Indicator(s)1

                                         Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                          Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval       Target       Completion or
                                           documents)      Values        Target Years
                Number of people in urban areas provided with access to improved water
Indicator 1 :
                sources under the project
Value                                   700,000 (Target
quantitative or                         values are from               0
Qualitative)                            the ISR)
Date achieved                           11/30/2009                    12/29/2010
Comments
(incl. %         Due to non completion of works no connection was provided at closing.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally             Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                             approval           Target        Completion or
                                            documents)          Values        Target Years
                Increase in level of water supply availability - liters per capita per day
Indicator 1 :
                (lpcd)
Value
(quantitative                                                               87
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/29/2010
Comments
                Estimated from Water sources completed; but no piped connections
(incl. %
                provided
achievement)


1 These indicators are extracted from the ISRs. Project Grant Agreement did not contain any indicators and the indicators identified in
the project document (prepared by the consultant) were not monitored during the course of project implementation.



                                                                 vii
                New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 2 :
                intervention
Value                                  21,348 (Target
(quantitative                          values are from                  0
or Qualitative)                        the ISR)
Date achieved                          11/30/2009                       12/29/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Due to non completion of works no connection was provided at closing.
achievement)
                Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation
Indicator 3 :
                works undertaken by the project
Value                                  6,200 (Target
(quantitative                          values are from                  0
or Qualitative)                        the ISR)
Date achieved                          11/30/2009                       12/29/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Due to non completion of works no connection was provided at closing.
achievement)
                Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the
Indicator 4 :
                project
Value                                  280 (Target
(quantitative                          values are from                  0
or Qualitative)                        the ISR)
Date achieved                          11/30/2009                       12/29/2010
Comments
                Due to non completion of works, no community water points was
(incl. %
                provided at closing
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    10/15/2008        Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  20.36
                                                 Moderately
  2    05/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                      24.11
                                               Unsatisfactory
                                                 Moderately
  3    11/30/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                      25.68
                                               Unsatisfactory
  4    04/02/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              27.40
  5    11/09/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              31.41
  6    01/11/2011      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                    32.21




                                          viii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings   Amount
                Board        at      Disbursed at
Restructuring                                       Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructurin Restructurin
   Date(s)                                            & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change      g       g in USD
                          DO    IP     millions
                                                  The project was restructured
                                                  primarily to address the
                                                  funding gap resulting from
                                                  cost escalation and to focus
                                                  on completing the works
                                                  contracts under
                                                  implementation for water
                                                  supply in the project
 03/27/2010       N       MS MU           27.24
                                                  provincial towns through a
                                                  formal reduction of project
                                                  scope and amendment of the
                                                  project Grant Agreement.
                                                  Restructuring reduced the
                                                  scope of components 1 and 2
                                                  to the extent of works
                                                  completed to that date.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                      ix
1.           Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1      The combination of persistent conflict, drought and lack of investment and
maintenance resulted in inadequate piped water supply serving only about 20% of the
population of Kabul (2003 population estimates were in the range 2.5-3.5 million) and 13
other centers (2003 total population estimates were in the range 1.1-2.9 million). This
was one of the lowest rates of urban piped water supply in the world. Those with no
access to piped supply relied on wells fitted with (or without) hand-pumps or informal
sources such as karez2 and streams. Sewers were limited to four apartment complexes in
Kabul and served less than 5% of Kabul’s population and wastewater was only partially
treated. Larger buildings and high cost housing relied on septic tanks, which were not
emptied regularly because of lack of suction trucks. Most urban households relied on pit
latrines and bucket systems. A rapidly declining share of the night soil produced was
used by farmers. Intermittence of piped service, inadequate water treatment, and
contamination of groundwater resulted in a precarious sanitary situation.

1.1.2     Since the end of the conflict the Government’s Water Supply and Sanitation
(WSS) strategy had been to focus on the rehabilitation and re-establishment of existing
systems and services, while at the same time initiating capacity building, institutional
strengthening, and carrying out feasibility studies for system expansion.           The
Government planned to implement a scaled up program of investments to increase
coverage of WSS services throughout Afghanistan and make progress towards the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).

1.1.3             Accordingly the Government’s objectives were:

        -    To increase substantially the coverage of safe, sustainable and affordable water
             supply and sanitation (WSS) facilities in Kabul and the 13 provincial towns
             already partially served by a water supply network;
        -    To construct WSS systems in the 21 provincial centers currently with no supply
             network;
        -    Transform the sector institutions, notably Central Authority for Water Supply and
             Sanitation (CAWSS), into a high-performing WSS utility, financially self-
             sufficient, and customer oriented;
        -    To decentralize utility management and to increase the involvement of local
             governments, communities and consumers; and,
        -    To integrate the management of water resources in order to promote efficient
             water use and the conservation of scarce water resources.




2
    Underground tunnels constructed to gather subsoil water at the foot of hills through gravity.



                                                                     1
1.1.4      The National Priority Program (NPP) for the urban sector was envisaged as the
key instrument for the government to coordinate the various contributions to the urban
water and sanitation sector and the proposed project aimed to support the Islamic
Republic of Afghanistan and the forthcoming democratically elected Afghan Government
to nurture, prepare and implement the urban WSS component of the NPP. The Short-
Term Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project financed through Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) was a key component of the urban NPP and the
Government’s short-term and medium term implementation strategy. Most importantly,
the short-term ARTF aimed to ensure a smooth transition through 1383-84 (equivalent
Gregorian year 2004-05) until the start of the Medium-Term program in 1385 (equivalent
Gregorian year 2006).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)

1.2.1     The project development objectives were:

   i.   To provide sustainable, improved water supply and sanitation services to the
        urban segment of the Afghan population
 ii.    To build the technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term UWSS
        program
 iii.   To ensure continuity of investment by benefiting from the implementation
        arrangements already in place and fully operational

1.2.2     The ICRR team did not find any original Bank project document except for the
original Grant Agreement, which did not have any Key Indicators. Therefore, the ICRR
team has taken the Key Indicators from a Final Version of a Project Document dated
February 14, 2005, which is available on files. The key indicators for measuring the
PDO in the referenced document are as shown in Table 1.

Table 1: Original Key Performance Indicators
 Indicator                                                             Units
 Agreement on the institutional arrangements to support the            N/A
 implementation of the medium-term program
 Availability of an investment plan for the medium-term program        N/A
 Increase in share of population served by household connections       %
 Increase in volume of water supplied being properly disinfected       %
 Increase in level of water supply availability                        Liters per capita
                                                                       per day
 Increase in water supply infrastructure coverage                      % of population
 Increase in sanitation infrastructure coverage.                       % of population

1.3 Main Beneficiaries

1.3.1      Primary target beneficiaries for the project were the urban populations in the
city cores of the provincial towns and high density areas of Kabul. The project design

                                            2
recommended extensive community consultations during implementation to ensure that
no group was excluded on the basis of gender/creed or ethnicity.

1.4 Original Components (as approved in the Grant Agreement)

1.4.1     According to the original Grant Agreement, the Project consists of the
following components:

1.4.2      Component 1: Kabul Water Supply. Construction of Upper Kabul River well
field and associated transmission mains, reservoirs and distribution network.

1.4.3      Component 2: Kabul Sanitation – Wastewater, On-site Sanitation and
Solid Waste. Acquisition of equipment and construction of new facilities, including a
workshop, a septage disposal station, a solid waste transfer station and the first stage of a
new sanitary solid waste land fill.
1.4.4      Component 3: Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation. Provision
of water supply and sanitation services in provincial towns through: (i) completion of
rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems and initial expansion of systems in
selected provincial towns; and (ii) new construction of systems in towns which are not
served by a water supply network.

1.4.5    Component 4: Engineering Support and Technical Assistance to CAWSS
and to Kabul Municipality.

-   Rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems, through the carrying out of
    technical studies and construction supervision, consistent with the Environment and
    Social Safeguards Framework, for selected water supply systems and construction
    packages.
-   Provision of systems operation and management support, including capacity building,
    human resources management, technical support for financial monitoring, water
    quality control, and awareness campaigns and involvement of communities.
-   Conducting technical studies, engineering design and construction supervision for
    solid waste management and sanitation investments, consistent with the Environment
    and Social Safeguards Framework, including updating the Strategic Sanitation Plan.

1.4.6     Component 5: Financial Support to the CAWSS Operations. Provision of
financial support for the operations of CAWSS, according to eligibility criteria,
functioning, implementation, and monitoring arrangements specified in the Operations
Manual.

1.5 Components (Based on Project Document)

1.5.1     The following components are based on the project document dated February
14, 2005 for an amount of US$ 41 million, available on files.




                                             3
1.5.2      Component 1: Kabul Water Supply (US$ 15 million). This component
comprised the Upper Kabul River package which involved construction of new well
fields, transmission mains and reservoirs which would ultimately serve up to 300,000
people. The package included construction of distribution networks to serve 100,000
people (75% house connections, 25% stand-posts). The remaining 200,000 people would
be served under a package financed under the medium-term programme 1385-90.

The Upper Kabul River would complement the forthcoming Logar package (financed
separately by KfW), under which new distribution networks, linked to existing water
infrastructure would serve 200,000 people through a combination of house connections
(50%) and stand posts.

1.5.3 Component 2: Kabul Sanitation-Sewerage, Drainage and Solid Waste (US$
5million). The size of the investment fund was in the order of about US$ 1.5 million,
financed under EIRP, which would cover costs associated with priority interventions, for
which the tendering process started in November 2004. The additional ARTF funds
would help bridge any potential shortfall in financing the overall package of short-term
interventions which were to be tendered in late 2004 and would also cover initial
requirements as under the mid-term improvement plan for Kabul Sanitation.

1.5.4 Design, tendering and supervision of the interventions totaling US$ 5 million
would be covered under a 12 month extension of the existing IDA-funded Consultancy
contract which included a provision for additional services.

1.5.5 The measures proposed for implementation during 2005 cover three areas:
            Solid Waste:
                - Construction of a workshop
                - Rehabilitation of main road to Gazak dumpsite
                - Construction of a solid waste transfer station
                - Construction of the first stage of a new solid waste landfill

              Wastewater/on-Site Sanitation:
                 - Purchase of suction trucks (5 nos.)
                 - Construction of a septage disposal station
              Organizational Strengthening:
                 - Strengthening the operations (Human resources, Finances and
                     technical facilities) of the Department of Sanitation under the
                     Kabul Municipality

1.5.6     Component 3: Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation (US$ 15
million). This component would provide WSS services in 14 provincial towns through
the following:
               - completion of rehabilitation of system in selected provincial towns
               - Extension of systems, if and where possible in the project towns
               - Provision of new systems in town which were not served by a water
                 supply network

                                           4
1.5.7     The 14 towns comprised 9 out of 11 towns under the IDA supported
Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (EIRP) (Kandhar, Qalat, Shibergan,
Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Taloqan, Charikar, Mehterlam and Jalalabad) plus five
additional towns (Maimana, Sari Pul, Aybak, Pul-e-Khumri, Zaranj). ARTF funds would
complement funds provided by KfW, USAID, IDA and other donors. Note that Funding
for works in Ghazni and Gardez, the other two towns addressed by the IDA-supported
EIRP but not included in the 9 towns above, would be provided by USAID. New systems
in unserved towns would be funded in parallel by KfW in the Western Region, and by
USAID in the South and East. JICA was considering funding bulk water systems in
Mazar and Jalalabad.

1.5.8    Design, tendering and supervision of the selected interventions would be
covered under a 15-month extension of the existing competitively procured IDA
Consultancy.

1.5.9      Component 4: Engineering Support and Technical Assistance to Central
Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS) and to Kabul Municipality
(US$ 3 million). The Consultancy service contracts for the 11 Provincial Towns and
Kabul Sanitation Improvement projects, funded through the IDA-supported EIRP, would
be extended for 15 and 12 months respectively. This would provide consultant support
for sanitation works in Kabul, water supply works in the 14 towns where ARTF would
fund goods and works, and supervisory roles on behalf of the CAWSS in Ghazni, Gardez,
where all goods and works would be funded by USAID. The consultancy to support the
execution of the water supply works in Kabul would be funded by KfW.

1.5.10     Component 5: Financial Support to the CAWSS Operations (US$ 3
million). At the time of project preparation, CAWSS was facing significant financial
issues. Due to low revenues (or even no revenues at all in some cities) salaries and other
operational costs were partly and irregularly paid. No financial resources were available
to recruit more staff as required to operate the rehabilitated and extended UWSS systems
throughout the country.

1.5.11     This component intended to provide transitional financial support (until
Medium-Term Programme (MTP) is implemented ) to CAWSS operations in the 13 cities
where CAWSS was operating WSS systems as well as in the 5 new provincial towns
currently not served by a UWSS system and addressed by the component 3. Although the
preparation of the MTP was not to exceed 18 months, funds had been estimated for a
period of 24 months in order to address any unexpected delay.

1.5.12    More specifically this component aims at providing the financial resources to:
             - Ensure O&M costs are covered including a decent salary for the
                 CAWSS staff
             - Enable the recruitment of new qualified staff
             - Create incentives to perform among the CAWSS employees



                                            5
               -   Break the vicious cycle where meager and irregularly paid (if any)
                   salaries create low motivation and attendance, do not attract and retain
                   qualified staff
               -   Build the capacities of the CAWSS branches in improving financial
                   management, accounting and budgeting systems

1.5.13     Other expected outcomes are:
               - Performance benchmarking data
               - Capacity Building

1.6 Other significant changes

1.6.1     Change in geographical scope: Original geographical scope for Component 3
included 14 towns namely: Kandhar, Qalat, Shibergan, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz,
Taloqan, Charikar, Mehterlam, Jalalabad, Maimana, Sari Pul, Aybak, Pul-e-Khumri, and
Zaranj. During the course of implementation, four towns were dropped due to the
following reasons:

Dropped Town          Reason
Kunduz                KFW took up the full funding of Kunduz during project
                      implementation
Zaranj                Planned investments in this town were dropped as they were
                      triggering OP/BP 7.50: Projects on International Waterways
Sari Pul              USAID took up the full funding of Sari Pul during project
                      implementation
Aybak                 USAID took up the full funding of Aybak during project
                      implementation

1.6.2    Two towns Gardez and Ghazni were added to the project in lieu of Sari Pul and
Aybak, thus bringing the total number of towns to 12 for Component 3.

1.6.3    Change in scope of work: Project implementation faced a number of issues
during implementation, which are described below, due to which the project’s scope of
work was reduced.

1.6.4      The project cost at the time of restructuring had increased from the original
estimate of US$ 41 million to US$ 96.7 million, as a result of: (i) underestimation of the
original project costs; (ii) change of scope in the provincial towns (design changes for the
networks on account of various factors such as relocation of wells/reservoirs due to land
availability, relocation of wells due to aquifer constraints, connecting existing networks
with new networks, and bridging the gaps to reach tertiary networks); and, (iii) price
escalation on account of delays in procurement. Project implementation was also affected
by difficulties in finding responsive bidders for goods and works. The contract of the
supervision consultant for water supply to provincial towns went through amendments
seven times due to the above delays.


                                             6
1.6.5     The project was restructured in March 2010 primarily to address the resulting
funding gap by reducing the scope of some components, and focusing on completing the
under implementation works contracts for water supply in the provincial towns.
Reduction in project scope for Components 1, 2 and 3 is summarized in the following
table.

Project Component            Original Scope                   Revised Scope
Component 1                  Part A: Kabul Water Supply       Part A: Kabul Water Supply
                             Construction of the Upper        Construction of boreholes
                             Kabul River well field, and      in the Upper Kabul River
                             associated transmission          well-field
                             mains, reservoirs and
                             distribution networks.

                             Cost: 15 Million                 Cost: US$ 0.8 Million
Component 2                  Part B: Kabul Sanitation –       Part B: Kabul Sanitation,
                             Wastewater, On-site              On-site Sanitation and Solid
                             Sanitation and Solid Waste       Waste Supporting the
                             Acquisition of equipment         improvement of Sanitation
                             and construction of new          and solid waste disposal
                             facilities, including a          services in Kabul through
                             workshop, a septage              the acquisition of
                             disposal station, a solid        equipment, construction of
                             waste transfer station and       new facilities including a
                             the first stage of a new         workshop, and
                             sanitary solid waste landfill.   rehabilitation of a solid
                                                              waste dumpsite.

                             Cost: US$ 5 Million              Cost: US$ 4 Million
Component 3                  Part C: Provincial Towns         Part C: Provincial Towns
                             Water Supply and                 Water Supply Provision of
                             Sanitation Provision of          water supply services in
                             water supply and sanitation      provincial towns through:
                             services in provincial towns     (i) completion of
                             through: (i) completion of       rehabilitation of water
                             rehabilitation of water          supply systems and initial
                             supply and sanitation            expansion of systems in
                             systems and initial              selected provincial towns;
                             expansion of systems in          and (ii) new construction of
                             selected provincial towns;       systems in towns which are
                             and (ii) new construction of     not served by a water
                             systems in towns                 supply network.

                             Cost: US$ 15 Million             Cost: US$ 30 Million




                                           7
2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of the Background Analysis: The project was prepared as a
complementary operation to the Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project3(EIRP)
and included nine out of 11 towns covered in EIRP.            However, implementation
arrangements of the project were different from that of EIRP. In EIRP consultants were
responsible for the procurement and implementation of goods and works. Whereas, in
this project overall project management responsibility rested with the Ministry of Urban
Development and Housing (MUDH) and CAWSS for components 1, 3, 4 & 5 and Kabul
Municipality for component 2. The consultants were only assisting the implementation
agencies and the former’s responsibilities included: (a) detailed technical studies and
engineering designs; (b) assistance to MUDH in evaluation of bids; (c) supervision of
supply and construction works contracts; and, (d) system operation and management
support. Procurement of goods and works for the project was done through the
Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS)4 – a central procurement
agency of the Government of Afghanistan. The rationale for changing the institutional
arrangements from EIRP to this project as described above is not clear from project
documentation, when the scope of work under this project was significantly more than
EIRP. The project design included a component to build the capacity of the
implementing agencies to implement the enhanced scope of work. However, the
envisaged capacity building proved to be too ambitious.

2.1.2   Unpredictable Security Environment: The project was designed in a post-
conflict setting. Consequently, it was difficult to foresee how the evolving security
environment would affect project implementation.

2.1.3 Assessment of the Project Design: Project development objectives were simple
and clearly defined. They supported the project’s rationale, which was to assist the
Government’s strategy to broaden its focus from rehabilitation and reconstruction of
existing Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) services to a scaled up program of
investment to increase the coverage of WSS. It was proposed to ensure continuity of
investments in the WSS sector until the Medium-Term program is launched by the
Government of Afghanistan.




3
  The Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project (EIRP) worth US$ 37.11 million was implemented from 06/11/2002 till
06/30/2006. The objective for the project was to improve selected infrastructure service delivery in order to enhance the quality of life,
health status, and welfare of population and to support the economic recovery of the country. This was to be achieved by:
a) Carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation works to restore critical urban services and power;
b) Providing employment opportunities through labor-based reconstruction activities; and
c) Providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the Government in selected sectors to promote sustainable
infrastructure service delivery which fosters community and private sector participation.

4
 ARDS has a Procurement Unit (PU) that deals with various procurement activities on behalf of Line Ministries and other
Government Entities of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on receipt of requests from them seeking such support.

                                                                    8
2.1.4 In hindsight, the project had several design issues at the entry stage as described
below:

      Ambitious Geographical Scope and Number of Components: The project
       design covered construction works for Kabul city and 14 provincial towns spread
       across Afghanistan. This represented an ambitious geographical scope, especially
       for Component 3, which had planned water supply schemes for 14 towns. The
       ambitious geographical scope over-extended the already fledgling capacity of the
       government and construction industry. Furthermore, underestimation of costs at
       the time of project preparation resulted in less than optimum financing for each
       town water supply scheme.

      Unrealistic Timelines: The original grant agreement envisaged the project to be
       completed in 28 months. This timeline was too short considering that: (i) 25
       contracts had to be designed, tendered and executed; (ii) all supply materials had
       to be imported; and, (iii) the implementation entities and local construction
       industry were in the early stages of development resulting in capacity gaps.

      Need for Capacity Assessment: There is no evidence of a capacity assessment
       having been conducted of the implementation entities and the construction
       industry. Implementation arrangements for the project were different from EIRP
       and therefore required a better capacitated implementation agency. A detailed
       capacity assessment might have been helpful to adjust the project design,
       implementation approach and especially the time schedule based on the ground
       realities in Afghanistan.

      Need for Proper Planning: Attention should have been given to certain potential
       constraints at the design stage. For example, reduced construction window for
       works due to winter months, in which construction is not possible at the normal
       pace, was not taken into consideration while estimating the construction period in
       contracts. Materials had to be imported and delays owing to customs, logistics,
       coordination with the pipe laying activities, etc., were not considered at the design
       stage. Similarly, land acquisition was not considered as a major problem at the
       design stage but during the course of implementation it remained one of the major
       issues delaying implementation of some sub-projects.

2.1.5 Government’s Commitment: The government’s National Priority Program (NPP)
was perceived to become the key instrument for the government to coordinate the various
contributions to the UWSS sector. The project was designed to support the
implementation of the urban WSS component of the NPP and to ensure a smooth
transition to the Medium Term Investment Program (MTIP). While progress on the
Medium term Framework for the WSS sector has been slow, implementation of
institutional reforms and the transformation of CAWSS into AUWSSC, while not
attributable to the current project, may be seen as evidence of the overall ownership and
commitment from the government.


                                            9
2.1.6 Assessment of Risks: The project conducted a preliminary risk assessment at the
design stage. However, the preliminary risk assessment did not take into account risks
associated with delays in payments to contractors due to cumbersome approval
procedures, inadequate capacity in the construction industry, and lack of experience
within implementing entities in contract management. The risks of inadequate budgeting,
funds flow, accounting policies and procedures within MUDH 5 were not adequately
evaluated. Although weak implementation capacity was identified as a major risk,
project design lacked an effective mitigation plan in this regard. The project attempted to
bridge the capacity gaps by hiring technical advisors and engineering support consultants.
However, these measures could not adequately compensate for the existing capacity gaps.
A detailed upfront assessment of needs might have provided requisite insights on how to
compensate for the capacity gaps. Similarly, inconsistencies in the institutional
arrangements in the UWSS sub-sector were identified as a risk, but project design lacked
appropriate mitigation measures.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Due to inherent problems in the project design mentioned in section 2.1 the
project confronted significant implementation delays. It was extended three times but
succeeded to complete only restructured and reduced works in Components 1 and 2.
Project restructuring in March 2010 considered the works in Components 1 and 2 that
had been completed up to that time and accordingly limited the scope of Components 1
and 2 to the completed works. At the time of restructuring the project cost had increased
from the original estimate of US$ 41 million to US$ 96.7 million, as a result of: (i)
underestimation of the original project costs; (ii) change of scope in the provincial towns
(design changes for the networks on account of various factors such as, relocation of
wells/reservoirs due to land availability, relocation of wells due to aquifer constraints,
connecting existing networks with new networks, and bridging the gaps to reach tertiary
networks), (iii) price escalation on account of delays in procurement; and (iv) difficulties
in finding responsive bidders for goods and works. The contract of the supervision
consultant for water supply to provincial towns went through amendments seven times
due to these delays. The project restructuring was done to address the funding gap and to
focus on completing the works contracts under implementation for water supply in the
provincial towns through a formal reduction of project scope and amendment of the
project Grant Agreement. Despite reducing this scope, it needs to be noted that the signed
commitment through all works contracts at restructuring was USD 7 million more than
the grant amount available.

2.2.2 Project Closing Date Extension: Implementing local level infrastructure
development project is always a challenge in a country emerging out of a major conflict.
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Afghanistan also acknowledges that Bank’s contribution



5
 Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MUDH) was renamed to Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) during the course
of project implementation.



                                                          10
towards achieving the targets set by the Afghanistan Urban Development Strategy shall
remain a challenge especially in a situation where parts of the country have become
unsuitable for implementing Bank-supported operations mainly due to security situation.
Although three extensions were provided to the project, the request for a fourth extension
was not approved resulting in the project closing at a time when implementation
arrangements had been strengthened due to creation of AUWSSC and most goods and
materials were in place for the civil works. If the project had been extended, there was a
high likelihood that the civil works would have been completed resulting in the
respective outcome being achieved. This would have had a different bearing on the final
rating of the project outcome.

2.2.3 Apart from complex design and ambitious project scope the factors affecting the
project implementation included.

      Implementation Problems in a Conflict Situation: Deteriorating security
       situation, particularly in some provincial towns under component 3, was a critical
       factor during implementation. World Bank Task Team was not able to visit the
       sites due to security risks in various provincial towns. As reported by consultants
       and contractors, the added risk in provincial towns also resulted in added cost
       premiums for undertaking works and difficulties in getting qualified staff to work
       at these sites. The above factors adversely affected implementation of the project
       as originally envisaged.

      Need for Greater Support from Bank: Although the Bank Task Team provided
       significantly more support in addition to the normal supervision effort, the
       complex project design, ambitious scope, lack of adequate capacity within the
       implementation entities, and the prevailing security environment demanded still
       greater effort from the Bank.

      Delays in Payments: A major factor that exacerbated delays was the centralized
       system of approving and making payments. Time-consuming approval and
       payment procedures resulting in delays in payments to contractors negatively
       affected project implementation. The payment delays were reported to be as long
       as 3 years in some cases.

      Unclear Roles: On the Government’s side, the confusion over roles and
       responsibilities between the MoUD and CAWSS adversely affected project
       implementation. Contracts were signed by MoUD, whereas CAWSS was
       responsible for project management. The latter depended on the supervision
       consultant to perform contract management in addition to supervision of the
       contracts, which diluted the attention of CAWSS to take remedial measures when
       contracts were not performing.

      Transition from CAWSS to AUWSSC: CAWSS was being phased out during
       the course of the project and was to be replaced by an autonomous corporate
       entity Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation (AUWSSC).

                                           11
       The phasing out of CAWSS and the resulting implementation arrangements
       during this period, comprising a Project Manager with a small team, were
       inadequate for this purpose and adversely affected the overall performance of the
       contracts.

      Issues with Bidding and Awarding of Contracts: A number of problems with
       bidding were reported that had an adverse effect on project implementation. A
       large number of bids were non responsive in the initial procurement attempts,
       which led to repackaging of contracts and rebidding. Furthermore, long delays
       were reported between the evaluation of bids and the awarding of contracts.

      Underestimation and Delayed Delivery of Materials: The consultant’s
       estimates for various inputs for the distribution network were underestimated. In
       addition the delivery schedules of the materials estimated by the consultants were
       unrealistic and resulted in delayed delivery of pipes. This was further
       compounded by damages to about 17% of GRC pipes during transportation. Due
       to shortage of materials at the site, piping mains could not be completed for the
       provincial towns’ component.

      Increase in Project Cost: There was a significant price increase during the
       course of implementation of the project. The reasons were: delayed delivery of
       materials; significant costs increase for imported materials; physical deviation in
       the layout of the systems partly due to water source and/or land acquisition
       problems; increase of local labor costs combined with devaluation of US$ to
       Afghani; and, increase in security problems particularly for works in the south
       cluster.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Monitoring and reporting arrangements at the design stage primarily consisted of
regular reporting on implementation, and maintenance of books and accounts for the
project to reflect the operations, resources and expenditure related to the project. The
project document did envision setting up during the course of implementation, a more
systematic reporting procedure and monitoring system embedded into the organizational
structure of CAWSS, which could support an effective implementation of the
forthcoming medium term UWSS program. While a full monitoring and evaluation
system was designed for Kabul under the medium-term program, continuation of the
M&E for Component 1 was not pursued as the Kabul Water Supply Component was
significantly reduced. As regards water supply to provincial towns under Component 3,
the planned M&E system was not fully operationalized in a timely manner.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Financial Management:          Records of the project's funds receipts and
disbursements from inception until closure were maintained at the Ministry of Finance,
Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). Record of project’s disbursements was also

                                           12
maintained at the implementing agencies – Ministry of Urban Development and Kabul
Municipality. Records under UWSS, like other emergency projects in Afghanistan, were
maintained manually at the SDU from inception until March 2005 when the SDU started
using the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS) developed
independently for all projects and line ministries’ financial transactions. Supporting
documents were maintained satisfactorily for all payments.

2.4.2 Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally by the MOF
(SDU). An assessment of the process reveals that this has been managed appropriately
since the project began. Financial reporting was poor initially: monthly and quarterly
financial reports – including the mandatory financial monitoring reports to be submitted
quarterly to the Bank – were not prepared regularly and did not contain all required
information. However financial reporting improved considerably over time. The FMRs
were prepared and submitted regularly since the 4th quarter of SY1386. Annual audited
financial statements were submitted regularly, though later than the mandated submission
deadline except for solar year 1388.

2.4.3 The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was qualified
(unclean) for SY1384, 1385 and 1387, and unqualified (clean) for SY1386 and SY1388.
The SY1388 audit report was submitted on Sep 16, 2010, before the due date of Sep 22,
2010. There were no key issues raised in the audit report, all the audit observations were
responded to satisfactorily during the audit and no further response is required from the
client.

2.4.4 Given that the financial management systems in place were weak when the
project became effective, one could conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily
over the life of the project.

2.4.5 Procurement: Cooperation with ARDS remained healthy and contracts were
awarded based on joint evaluation and recommendation of MoUD and ARDS. The
project enabled MUDH to build capacity in handling procurement process. There were a
few contracts for which the entire procurement process was handled by MUDH. This
was an important achievement of the project. However contract awarding process within
MoUD was lengthy, taking up to six months for award of some contracts6. In the initial
stages of the project a number of non-responsive bids and subsequent rebidding led to
substantial delays in the works implementation resulting in amendments in the
procurement plan. Despite these delays all works contracts were awarded to and
executed by the Afghan contractors who gained invaluable experience through the
provincial towns sub-projects.

2.4.6 Environment: An ESMF document was prepared for the project but was not
properly implemented due to lack of capacity in the ministry and due to lack of
arrangements for the ESMF implementation. During project implementation, the client



6
    MUD 412, MUD 402, MUD 399

                                           13
had established a department of Environment and Sanitation but it could not deliver on
the ground.

2.4.7 The major issue was the protection of groundwater by identifying and delineating
the boundaries of the groundwater safety zone around the major aquifers, but no action
was taken on the issue as there was a lacking decision making mechanism and poor
cooperation between the relevant agencies on the client’s side on the ESMF
implementation.

2.4.8 Social Safeguards: Major safeguard issues revolved around the land acquisition
and their adequate documentation. The client did not adequately follow up on
recommendations regarding conducting public consultations, and provision of adequate
information on land acquisition process. Implementing entity acquired land in five
provincial towns for boring of 17 wells, construction of a reservoir and one pumping
station. The well field activities of all 17 wells, construction works of the pumping station
and a reservoir were completed, but in some instances affected land owners did not
receive compensation. One major concern with resolving social safeguards issues was
that CAWSS was dependent on the ministry for social safeguards expertise, and had not
hired a social safeguard focal point within its own structure. Although, the client agency
gained good experience of social safeguard procedures and the abbreviated resettlement
framework in Kabul water supply component, they failed to apply these for provincial
towns component.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 MoUD is approaching various donors and Provincial Reconstruction Teams
(PRTs) 7 to finance the unfinished projects in the 12 provincial towns for completion.
KFW has already agreed to finance the completion of Mazar-e-Sharif, Taloqan and Pul-e-
Khumri. AUWSSC has taken over the operation and maintenance of the water supply
services and will seek to complete the water supply schemes.

3.           Assessment of Outcomes

3.4 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation to Current Strategy

3.4.1 The project development objective to provide sustainable, improved water supply
and sanitation services to the urban segment of the Afghan population; to build the
technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term UWSS program; and to
ensure continuity of investment by benefiting from the implementation arrangements
already in place and fully operational are aligned with the current Afghanistan Urban
Sector Strategy that aims to provide piped water and sanitation facility to 50% of the
households in Kabul and 30% of the households in other major urban areas by 2013.




7
    PRTs are lead by the foreign army divisions posted in that province.

                                                                    14
3.4.2 Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) also identifies improving access to sanitary
facilities and water as critical for household welfare in Afghanistan. However, Bank’s
contribution towards achieving the targets set by the Afghanistan Urban Development
Strategy poses a challenge especially when there are major constraints for Bank-
supported operations in parts of the country due to security concerns. The issues faced by
this project reflect the nature and scale of challenges confronting Bank’s involvement in
the urban WSS sector in Afghanistan.

3.5 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
3.5.1 Project Development Objective 1: To provide sustainable, improved water
supply and sanitation services to the urban segment of the Afghan population.
Unsatisfactory

3.5.2 Component 1, 2 & 3 directly contribute to this part of the project development
objective. Due to significant delays and huge cost over runs Component 1 & 2 were
restructured and reduced to the extent of works completed at that point. The works
completed under these two components do not result into the provision of sustainable
improved water supply and sanitation services to the urban segment of the Afghan
population. Similarly for component 3 physical progress in terms of supplies and works
is estimated at about 70%, with no water supply works contracts completed. Major
portion of unfinished works is on principal and transmission mains due to shortage of
supplies. The consultant’s estimates for various inputs for the distribution network went
wrong. This shortage was compounded by damages occurred to 17% of GRC pipes
during transportation. Due to the shortage of materials on the site piping mains could not
be completed for the provincial towns component.

3.5.3 During implementation, KfW agreed to take up the funding for Component 1. As
a result, ARTF project’s share was reduced, and the KfW share was increased. Work is
underway on the Kabul water supply distribution system under this arrangement. While
full allocation for Component 2 was utilized, the scope was modified. Most notably, KM
successfully completed the rehabilitation of Chamtala dumpsite under this component.
Details of the works completed in all the components are provided in Annex 2.

3.5.4 The project measured the progress towards the PDO through a series of indicators
listed in the table 2. Due to lack of reliable data at appraisal, baseline values for the key
indicators were not available and the implementation entity did not focus on collecting
baseline information during the course of implementation.




                                             15
            Table 2: Project Performance Assessment based on Key Selected Indicators 8

Indicator                                                                     Unit        Target             Progress          Comments
                                                                                                             at
                                                                                                             Project
                                                                                                             Closing
Increase in level of water supply availability - liters                       No.         -                  87                Estimated from Water
per capita per day (lpcd)                                                                                                      sources completed; but
                                                                                                                               no piped connections
                                                                                                                               provided
New piped household water connections that are                                No.         21,348             0                 Due to Non
resulting from the project intervention                                                                                        completion of works
Piped household water connections that are                                    No.         6,200              0                 no connection was
benefiting from rehabilitation works undertaken by                                                                             provided at closing
the project
Improved community water points constructed or                                No.         280                0                 Project activities have
rehabilitated under the project                                                                                                not been completed
Number of people in urban areas provided with                                 No.         700,000            0
access to Improved Water Sources under the project

            3.5.5 As shown in the table 2, the project has shown little progress towards the
            indicators measuring the achievement of PDO. Therefore, the achievement of this part of
            the PDO is rated as Unsatisfactory. However, if the project had been extended, there was
            a high likelihood that the civil works would have been completed resulting in the
            respective outcome being achieved. This would have had a different bearing on the final
            rating of the project outcome.

            3.5.6 Project Development Objective 2: To build the technical and institutional
            foundation for the medium-term UWSS program. Moderately Unsatisfactory.

            3.5.7 Component 4 & 5 contributed towards this objective but the project did not track
            any indicators linked to this part of the PDO. A complementary IDA supported project
            provided the major institutional development support resulting in transformation of
            CAWSS into AUWSSC. As the ARTF UWSSP did not entail creation of AUWSSC, it is
            not possible to isolate the impact of this project in strengthening of the technical and
            institutional foundation for medium-term UWSS program.

            3.5.8 To support the operations of MoUD, CAWSS, and Kabul Municipality seven
            advisors and nine consultants were hired through ARTF Technical Assistance and
            Feasibility Studies (TAFS). In addition to this, engineering design, supervision and
            construction management support for the ongoing works in the provincial towns and



            8
             These indicators are from the ISRs. The indicators identified in the project document were not monitored during the course of
            implementation. Grant Agreement does not mention any indicators to monitor project performance.



                                                                             16
Kabul was provided by the consultant firms. Consultant support for Kabul Municipality
was terminated in 2008, however, consultancy contract for provincial towns’ component
continued until the grant closing.

3.5.9 Component 5 intended to financially bridge the operation of the water supply in
14 CAWSS units until system rehabilitation and extension was completed and sound
revenue basis was re-established. This support contributed significantly towards
improving the management capacity of all 14 units of CAWSS and generated detailed
technical, financial and commercial data at the decentralized level for the first time.

3.5.10 Project Development Objective 3: To ensure continuity of investment by
benefiting from the implementation arrangements already in place and fully operational.
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.5.11 The project was prepared as a complementary operation to EIRP and built on to
the implementation arrangements put in place by the earlier operations to ensure that
investments in the WSS sector did not dry out until the medium term program for UWSS
was launched. However, except for the restructured and reduced scope of works in
component 1 & 2, the project failed to complete the intended investment projects in the
given timeframe and even after three extensions of one year each. Although the project
disbursement at closing stood at 100% the works could not be finished due to price
escalation, shortage of supply materials and other reasons explained earlier. US$ 41
million disbursed under the project included the major cost overrun of 7.3 million for the
consultancy contracts.

3.6 Efficiency

3.6.1 Completed works in component 1 are yet to provide benefits of piped water
supply to the resident of Kabul. Component 2 was reduced to the extent of works
completed at the time of restructuring. Further, none of the sub-projects in component 3
has been completed to date. Therefore, any formal assessment of efficiency (net present
value, economic rate of return or cost effectiveness) is not carried out for this project.

3.7 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.7.1 The project objectives were relevant to the government’s program and the sector
strategy. Due to implementation delays and cost over runs, the project was not able to
deliver WSS benefits in terms of piped water supply and improved sanitation to the
beneficiary households. However, it did improve the availability of urban bulk water by
adding new water source infrastructure. To some extent, the project strengthened the
capacity of government institutions at the center and provincial levels, and built the
capacity of private construction industry. However, the project did not explicitly measure
performance on the capacity building side.



                                           17
3.8 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

3.8.1 Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project
design recommended community consultation to ensure that no group is excluded on the
basis of gender creed or ethnicity. However, community participation in the project
remained continually weak primarily due to delays and lags in the infrastructure
development component that was the main thrust of the project.

3.8.2 The project raised hopes and expectations among the implementing agencies and
beneficiaries, which were not realized by the end of the project. The incomplete
infrastructure projects of Component 3 may have disillusioned the communities, which
could lessen their interest in future projects.

3.8.3 Institutional Change/Strengthening. The project contributed to improving the
management capacity of all 14 units of CAWSS and generated detailed technical,
financial and commercial data at the decentralized level for the first time. Although
CAWSS has phased out with the responsibility for water supply services handed over to
AUWSSC, yet the operational management experiences and lessons learnt through the
project may contribute to improved management of water supply services in future.

4.          Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

4.1    Full Achievement Outcomes: Pending project outputs need to be completed
immediately to achieve the intended project outcomes. MoUD does not have sufficient
financing to complete the unfinished works in the 12 provincial towns and is approaching
various donors for financing. KfW has taken up the Kabul Water supply component9 and
three provincial towns. Even if the project level outcomes are achieved the following
substantial risks threatens the long term sustainability of the development outcomes:

4.1.1       Weak Institutional Capacity: Availability of qualified technical staff had been an
            issue as the government environment is not attractive due to low salaries. There
            are also security concerns that demotivated the staff to work at the local level.
            Most of the staff working on the project are on contract and funded by donors.
            Sustained funding would be required to support their salaries, and there is a risk
            that the staff may leave as soon the funding support is withdrawn.

4.1.2       Sustainability: The sustainability of infrastructure created under the project is
            threatened by inadequate future maintenance – until such time that appropriate
            policy is enacted that mandates a rationalization across capital and asset
            maintenance investments. Periodic revisions of tariff may be required to cover
            the O&M costs of the WS schemes.



9
    KFW was providing complementary funding for Kabul

                                                        18
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory based on a cumulative analysis of Bank’s performance against key selected
criteria relevant to the developmental and country context, as listed in Table 3.

Table 3: Evaluation of Bank’s Quality at Entry
 Criterion        Rating         Justification
 Strategic        Satisfactory   Project objectives were closely aligned with the
 Relevance and                   priorities of government and Bank’s country
 Approach                        assistance strategy.
 Technical        Moderately     Project scope was too ambitious with reference to
 Aspects          Unsatisfactory the ground realities in Afghanistan.

                                    There was weak planning at the design stage. For
                                    example: limited time window for construction due
                                    to winter months was not taken into consideration;
                                    all materials had to be imported and delays owing to
                                    customs, etc., were not considered at the design
                                    stage; and implementation timelines (28 months) for
                                    the project were unrealistic.

                                  The sector is struggling with inadequate capacity
                                  within the government as well as the private sector.
                                  Absence of a systematic capacity assessment led to
                                  unrealistic expectorations from the government was
                                  well as the private sector. Capacity building should
                                  have preceded the implementation of sub-
                                  components.
 Fiduciary         Not-Rated      A detailed and documented fiduciary appraisal
 Aspects                          exclusively for this project was not carried out since
                                  the project was to maintain fiduciary standards and
                                  arrangements as in the EIRP.
 Policy and        Moderately     Project design and strategic parameters were in sync
 Institutional     Unsatisfactory with the national policies and strategies on UWSS.
 Aspects                          However a thorough appraisal of institutional
                                  aspects, particularly institutional coordination and
                                  capacitates, clarity or roles and responsibilities, and
                                  strategic oversight mechanisms, was warranted.
 Social Aspects    Moderately     The project at design stage expected only minor land

                                           19
                               Unsatisfactory acquisition and no resettlement. However, land
                                              acquisition for component 1, 2 & 3 remained a major
                                              issue during the course of implementation.
     Stakeholder               Moderately     There is no evidence of civil society or stake-holders
     Consultations             Unsatisfactory consultations in the project design document.
     Implementation            Moderately     Implementation arrangements of the project were
     Arrangements              Unsatisfactory different from that of EIRP. In EIRP consultants
                                              were responsible for the procurement and
                                              implementation of goods and works while in this
                                              project consultant were supposed to be only assisting
                                              the project implementing entity i.e MoUD. No
                                              formal assessment of readiness of MoUD for overall
                                              project management was carried out.
     Monitoring and            Moderately     Monitoring indicators10 identified were relevant and
     Evaluation                Unsatisfactory linked to the PDO except for the institutional
     Arrangements                             strengthening part. Due to the lack of reliable data at
                                              appraisal, baseline values for the key indicators were
                                              not available. The implementation entity did not
                                              focus on collecting baseline information during the
                                              course of implementation and no formal reporting
                                              linkages for those indicators were developed during
                                              the course of the project.
     Risk                      Unsatisfactory A preliminary risk assessment conducted at the
     Assessment                               design stage did not adequately identify risks and
                                              their mitigation measures. Inherent risks such as
                                              project financial management risks and risks during
                                              procurement and contract management could have
                                              been elaborated at the design stage. The risks of
                                              inadequate budgeting, funds flow, accounting
                                              policies and procedures within MUDH11 were not
                                              adequately evaluated.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank’s supervision performance is rated as moderately satisfactory based on
a cumulative analysis of Bank’s performance against key selected criteria relevant to the
developmental and country context, as listed in Table 4.



10
      Monitoring indicators as defined by the project document

11
  Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MUDH) was renamed to Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) during the course
of project implementation.



                                                                 20
Table 4: Evaluation of Quality of Bank Supervision
 Criterion           Rating        Justification
 Adequacy of         Moderately The Bank deployed considerable resources and the
 Supervision Inputs Satisfactory Task Team provided extraordinary support in a bid
                                   to augment supervision arrangements,
                                   implementation issues identified were not dealt with
                                   in a timely and adequate manner owing to low
                                   decision making capacities at implementation
                                   agencies
 Supervision of      Satisfactory Performance of Fiduciary Aspects was generally
 Fiduciary Aspects                 satisfactory. Support from Financial Management
                                   and Procurement was timely and continuous.
 Candor and Quality Moderately Internal project performance ratings within ISRs
 of Performance      Satisfactory preceding the exit ISR were forward-looking since
 Reporting                         proposals for project extension as well as additional
                                   financing had been under consideration. However,
                                   the subsequent decision for project closure changed
                                   the forward looking context due to which the exit
                                   ISR rating changed from MS/MS to U/U.
 Participation in    Moderately Broader sector dialogue is being undertaken
 Broader Sector      Satisfactory through an ongoing IDA Urban Water Supply and
 Policy Dialogue                   Sanitation project. As the ARTF financed project
                                   and the IDA project had interlinkages, broader
                                   sector dialogue was being taken forward
                                   collectively.
 Risk Mitigation –   Moderately Major implementation problems resulted from
 Resolution of       Satisfactory ambitious geographical scope and complex design
 Threats                           of the project. Several external risks, such as
                                   security risks in a post-conflict setting, plagued the
                                   project performance that should have been
                                   considered at the time of project preparation. In the
                                   later stages of the project cycle, the supervision
                                   team resolved the ambitious scope issue by
                                   restructuring and reducing the scope of component
                                   1 & 2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.3 Afghanistan is still a very difficult environment for development works especially
local level constructions works outside Kabul. Although Bank continued to organize
implementation support missions regularly and provided significantly more support in
addition to the normal supervision effort, the complex project design, ambitious scope,


                                           21
lack of adequate capacity within the implementation entities, and the prevailing security
environment demanded still greater effort from the Bank.

5.1.4 The Bank’s overall performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory, based on a
combined reading of the ratings received in respect of quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 The Government’s performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory based on a
cumulative analysis of its performance against key selected criteria relevant to the
developmental and country context, and applicable to the role of the Government, as
listed in Table 5.

Table 5: Evaluation of Government Performance
 Criterion        Rating         Justification
 Government       Moderately     The government displayed ownership and
 Ownership and Satisfactory      commitment towards the higher level objectives.
 Commitment                      However, due to capacity issues at the
 towards higher                  implementation agencies and the resultant delays,
 level objectives                this commitment could not be translated into results.
 served by the                   While progress on the Medium term Framework for
 project                         the WSS sector has been slow, implementation of
                                 institutional reforms, while not attributable to the
                                 current project, may be seen as evidence of the
                                 overall ownership and commitment from the
                                 government.
 Implementation Moderately       The distinction in roles and responsibilities of
 arrangements,    Unsatisfactory MoUD and CAWSS as implementation entity lacked
 capacity and                    sufficient clarity. MoUD did not give adequate
 appointment of                  operational autonomy to CAWSS that was
 key staff                       responsible for day to day operations of the project
                                 on behalf of MoUD. Key staff supported by the
                                 project and other external financing were appointed
                                 but lacked any decision making authority. Decision
                                 making with MoUD remained too centralized
                                 throughout the project resulting in extraordinary
                                 delays in making key decisions. Capacity of MoUD
                                 still remains weak.
 Timely           Unsatisfactory Resolving implementation issues took very long. The
 resolution of                   decision making process was very centralized and
 implementation                  depended usually on only one authorized person.
 issues                          Furthermore, the responsiveness especially on
                                 difficult or critical questions was low. Land

                                           22
                                    acquisition took too long, reaching up to 18 months
                                    in some cases.

 Disbursements     Unsatisfactory Payments processing took long time, in some cases
                                  as long as three years. 24 signatures were required
                                  to release the contractor payments, thus creating
                                  severe cash flow problem for the contractors.
 Procurement       Moderately     There were delays in award of civil works contracts
                   Unsatisfactory after the bid evaluation was completed.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.2 The project had two implementation entities: Kabul Municipality for component 2
and MoUD/CAWSS for components 1, 3, and 5. Both Kabul Municipality and CAWSS
procured the required consultancy services under component 4. The performance of both
the implementation entities towards the implementation of the project and achievement of
its developmental objectives is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory based on a cumulative
analysis of their performance against key selected criteria relevant to the developmental
and country context, as listed in Table 6.

Table 6: Evaluation of Implementation Entity Performance
 Criterion           Rating         Justification
 Ownership and       Moderately     Both the implementation entities exhibited low
 Commitment          Unsatisfactory level of ownership towards the higher level
 towards                            objectives served by the project. CAWSS was
 achievement of                     expecting to be phased out before the project
 project-level                      completion that affected the overall project
 objectives                         performance.
 Governance          Moderately     CAWSS did not enjoy the operational autonomy
 arrangements        Unsatisfactory and decision remained very centralized at the
                                    MoUD.
 Implementation      Unsatisfactory Both the entities lacked the adequate capacity for
 Readiness                          effective project implementation. There were
                                    major gaps in consultant management,
                                    engineering, contract management, procurement
                                    and financial management capacity. Kabul
                                    Municipality displayed good implementation
                                    capacity in completing the rehabilitation of the
                                    Chamartala Dump Site without help from
                                    consultants.
 Contract            Unsatisfactory This remained the weakest link in the chain.

                                           23
 Management                           Under Component 3, CAWSS did not fulfill their
                                      responsibility as project contract manager and the
                                      supervision consultant became the de-facto
                                      contract manager during the course of
                                      implementation. Under Component 2, the
                                      consultant’s contract with KM ran into disputes
                                      and was closed in May 2008.
 Timely Resolution     Moderately     Lack of clarity in roles and responsibilities and
 of Implementation     Unsatisfactory inadequate capacity resulted in long delay for
 Issues                               resolving implementation issues. For example,
                                      KM could not acquire land for transfer stations;
                                      CAWSS could not perform its responsibilities as
                                      project manager and resolve the contracts
                                      management related issues.
 Disbursements         Moderately     Financial management for component 1 & 3
                       Unsatisfactory remained with the CFO appointed in the MoUD
                                      and with KM for component 2. Both the entities
                                      significantly delayed payment processing.
 Adequacy of           Moderately     The development of an adequate M&E system by
 Monitoring and        Unsatisfactory the Implementation Agency was delayed
 Evaluation                           significantly, and monitoring responsibility for
 Arrangements                         project works was largely outsourced to the
                                      consultant.
 Adequacy of           Moderately     CAWSS has been replaced by an autonomous
 Transition            Satisfactory   corporate entity responsible for UWSS namely
 Arrangements                         Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage
                                      Corporation (AUWSSC). AUWSSC was created
                                      under a separate IDA project. The team did not
                                      conduct an in-depth assessment of the capacity of
                                      AUWSSC; however, it was generally reported
                                      that AUWSSC has better capacity as compared to
                                      CAWSS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.3 The Borrower’s overall performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory, based
on a combined reading of the ratings received in respect of government and
implementing agency/partner’s performance.

6.     Lessons Learned

Some lessons learned from this project are:



                                              24
6.1     Simple project design: In a post conflict environment the project design should be
kept fairly simple with minimal possible components, focused geographical scope and
relatively straight forward development objectives.

6.2     Comprehensive Appraisal of Implementation Arrangements: There is a tendency
to rush through the project preparation in emergency situations without giving due
attention to implementation challenges. Implementation arrangements should be assessed
thoroughly during the project preparation and adequate arrangements to be proposed to
ensure streamlined implementation.

6.3      Capacity assessment requirements for infrastructure investments: Investment of
time in assessing the capacity of the borrower, implementation entity as well as the
private sector at the design stage pays off during the implementation phase. In post
conflict the need for up front capacity assessment is even more acute. Depending on the
findings of the assessment adequate capacity building measures should be introduced into
the project design and the proposed implementation arrangements as well as the project
delivery schedule needs to be securely founded in the results of the capacity assessment.
The results of the assessment may also generate a more thorough and informed capacity
building plan to be implemented during the project. While institution building in a post-
conflict setting is a very long process which may require a series of projects, short-term
vs long-term capacity is an issue which requires careful balance. The project design
envisaged the engagement of a consultancy firm to help bridge the capacity gaps and
facilitate implementation as well as employing individual consultants to strengthen the
capacity at the implementation agencies. However, implementation progress was delayed
due to ineffective decision making at higher level within implementation agencies.

6.4    Upfront risk assessment and planning: Greater, mandatory emphasis should be
placed on the detailed upfront risk assessment, planning and risk mitigation frameworks
for post conflict projects. Dividends of time spent on thorough risk assessment during
the project design are very high. In particular, planning and design inputs from conflict
experts on the management of external risks such as security issues can help the project
preparation team in anticipating the likelihood and probable effects of such risks and
introducing effective mitigation measures against them.

6.5     Modest expectations from the project: Risk is inherently high in the post-conflict
period in Afghanistan. Thus, Bank management’s expectations need to be adjusted in
line with what can be reasonably achieved. Implementation procedures should kept
simple, flexible enough to accommodate operational effectiveness of institutions and
specific implementation needs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

MUDA and other relevant agencies have not provided any comments on the draft ICR
Report.

                                           25
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

KfW have informed that they have no comments on the current draft of the ICR Report.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                         26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                                        Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                                         Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)

Kabul Water Supply                               15.0                   48.8012              325.3
Kabul Sanitation - Wastewater,
On-site Sanitation and Solid                      5.0                     4.00                80.0
Waste
Provincial Towns Water
                                                 15.0                   30.80                200.0
Supply & Sanitation
Engineering Support and
Technical Assistance to
                                                  3.0                   11.04                360.0
CAWSS and Kabul
Municipality
Financial Support to CAWSS
                                                  3.0                     2.09                70.0
Operations
          Total Baseline Cost                    41.00                  96.7013              233.4
Physical Contingencies
                                                  0.00                    0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                  0.00                   0.00                 0.00
           Total Project Costs                    0.00                   0.00
Project Preparation Costs                         0.00                   0.00                 0.00
                                                  0.00                   0.00                 0.00
     Total Financing Required                    41.00                  96.70




12
   The total cost for this component as per latest available estimate (Jan. 2010) was USD 48.8 million, out
of which USD 21.9 million was to be financed by KfW and USD 26.0 million was expected to be financed
under IDA UWS Project (P087860) by project restructuring. The current project has disbursed only USD
0.8 million under this component.

13
  Total cost for the project as per the latest available estimate (Jan. 2010) was estimated at USD 96.70
million out of which USD 48.7 million was to be financed through the current ARTF Project Grant.


                                                    27
(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Late
                                            Type of
                                                      Estimate st Estimate Percentage
           Source of Funds                Cofinancin
                                                        (USD        (USD    of Appraisal
                                                g
                                                      millions)   millions)
KfW                                       Parallel   N/A        21.90
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
                                                         41.00           48.7014         .00
Fund




14
 As per latest available estimate (Jan. 2010). Actual allocation and disbursement have been USD 41.00
million.


                                                  28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1:

      The production and observation wells were completed for Kabul water supply to
       provide water at 1420 cum/hour.

Component 2:

      Provisional Fencing for existing Chamtala dumpsite
      Rehabilitation of Kabul’s main Chamtala dumpsite completed
      Solid Waste Management Workshop Constructed.
      Implementation of “Composting Pilot Project? at existing Chamtala dumpsite
      Procurement of sanitation equipment (pickup trucks, four suction trucks, seven
       container vehicles, one garbage Truck for 7.5 m3 Containers)

Component 3:

None of provincial subprojects is fully completed. The table provides the estimates of
physical progress for each of the 12 sub-projects under this component.

 No.      Town     Total Physical Works Completed by the end of December 2010
                                              %
 1     Maimana                                53
 2     Sheberghan                             32
 3     Mazar                                  78
 4     Taloqan                                72
 5     Puli Khumri                            63
 6     Charika                                68
 7     Metherlam                              40
 8     Jalalabad                              71
 9     Gardez                                  0
 10    Ghazni                                  0
 11    Qalat                                  52
 12    Khandhar                               53

Town wise details of each supply and works contract awarded under the project is as
follows,

   1. Maimana

A)    Water Well Drilling:                   3 Wells
Implementation Progress:                     100% completed

B)     Pump Installation:                    3 Wells
Availability of Materials:                   100% available
                                           29
Implementation Progress:                     8%

C)     Reservoir Construction:               1 Ground & 1 Elevated Reservoir
Availability of Materials:                   100% available
Implementation Progress (Ground. Res.):      56%
Implementation Progress (Elevated. Res.):    58%
Reasons for Delay:                           Slow implementation from contractor

D)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 19.67 km Network & 500 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        90% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        10% pipes, all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        1.9 km GRP pipes to be received
        2.6 km HDPE pipes delivered in Dec and rest 8.5 are to be delivered
        Valves, fittings and saddles: 20% arrived in Kabul in Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            45%
        Principal & Transmission Mains: 35%
        Local Mains:                      54%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delayed implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

E)     Building Construction:           1 Office & 1 Warehouse
Availability of Materials:              100% available
Implementation Progress:                50% (Office) & 60% (Warehouse)
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor abandoned the implementation 12 months ago

   2. Sheberghan

A)    Water Well Drilling:                   4 Wells
Implementation Progress:                     100% completed

B)     Pump Installation:                    4 Wells
Availability of Materials:                   100% available
Implementation Progress:                     0%

C)     Reservoir Construction:               2 Ground &1 Elevated Reservoir
Availability of Materials:                   100% available
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. 1):       20%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. 2):       20%
Implementation Progress (Elev. Res.):        20%

                                            30
Reason for Delay:
       Considerable delay in on the approval of geotechnical report

D) Pipe Laying & House Connections:        34.2 km Network & 1,525 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        77% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        23% pipes, all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        3.6 km GRP pipes to be received
        15.9 km HDPE pipes are already delivered under and 1.2km is still left
        Valves, fittings and saddles), 20% materials arrived in Kabul in Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            36%
        Principal &Transmission Mains: 53%
        Local Mains:                      24%
Physical Progress House Connections:       0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   3. Mazar-i-Sharif

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 83.9 km Network & 3,050 Connections
Availability of Materials:
        93% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        7% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        5.9 km GRP pipes
        27.4 km HDPE pipes delivered in Nov & Dec,10 and 2.0km still remain to be
           delivered
        Valves, fittings and saddles; 20% have arrived in Kabul in Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            78%
        Principal Mains:                  64%
        Local Mains:                      83%
Physical Progress (House Connections):
        Total:                            1%
        New Connections:                  1% (plan: 2,027)
        Reconnecting Existing Customers: 0% (plan: 1,023)
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   4. Taloqan

                                         31
A)    Water Well Drilling:                  3 Wells
Implementation Progress:                    100% completed

B)    Pump Installation:                    3 Wells
Implementation Progress:                    Total: 0%

C)     Reservoir Construction:              2 Ground Reservoirs
Availability of Materials:                  100% available
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. 1):      62%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. 2):      59%
 Reason for Delay:
        Slow progress by the contractor

D)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 36.5 km Network & 976 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        82% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        18% pipes plus all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        800 m GRP pipes to be received
        5.6 km HDPE pipes & bends to be received
        Valves, fittings and saddles:      20% materials arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                             78%
        Principal & Transmission Mains: 53%
        Local Mains:                       100%;
Physical Progress (House Connections):
        Total:                             8%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   5. Pul-i-Khumri

A)    Water Well Drilling:                  6 Wells
Implementation Progress:                    100% completed

B)     Pump Installation:                6 Wells
Availability of Materials:               100% available
Implementation Progress:                 50%
Reason for Delay:
        Slow progress by the contractor

C)     Reservoir Construction:              6 Ground Reservoirs
Availability of Materials:                  100% available;
                                           32
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. L):   79%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. F):   79%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. G):   66%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. E):   79%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. C):   78%
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res. D):   49%
Reason for Delay:
       Slow progress by the contractor
       Delay in the approval of geotechnical report

D)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 27.5 km Network & 800 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        66% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        34% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        4.7 km HDPE pipes & bends, received Nov 2010
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% materials has arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
        HDPE bends yet to be received
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            46%
        Principal &Transmission Mains: 22%
        Local Mains:                      76%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     Total 0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

E)     Building Construction:           1 Office & 1 Warehouse
Availability of Materials:              100% available
Implementation Progress:                70% (Office) & 50% (Warehouse)
Reason for Delay:
        Contractor abandoned the implementation 11 months ago

   6. Charikar

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 13.8 km Network & 738 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        92% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available.
        8% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        1.1 km GRP pipes yet to be received
        HDPE pipes yet to be received
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):

                                          33
        Total:                           68%
        Principal Mains:                 52%
        Local Mains:                     87%
Physical Progress (Total connections.):   0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   7. Mehtarlam

A)    Water Wells:                           2 Wells
Implementation Progress:                     100% completed

B)     Pump Installation:                    2 Wells
Availability of Materials:                   Being ordered
Implementation Progress:                     0%

C)      Reservoir Construction:              1 Ground Reservoir
Availability of Materials:
         Reservoir materials are available, piping materials is not available.
Implementation Progress (Grd. Res.):         46%
Reason for Delay:
Late tender and signature of contract

D)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 7.8 km Network & 562 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        95% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        5% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        0.3 km GRP pipes not yet received
        2.6 km HDPE pipes delivered in Dec 2010
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            26%
        Principal Mains:                  60%
        Local Mains:                      16%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC




                                            34
   8. Jalalabad

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 23.7 km Network & 2,200 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        82% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available.
        18% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        2.5 km GRP pipes not yet received
        8.2 km HDPE delivered in Dec 2010
        Valves, fittings and saddles; 20% materials arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            71
        Principal Mains:                  39%
        Local Mains:                      86%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   9. Gardez

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 2.3 km Network & 487 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        90% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available.
        10% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        Materials are not yet transported to Gardez from Kabul
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% materials arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):              0%
New House Connections:                      0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor has not yet started the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials

   10. Ghazni

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connection: 2.6 km Network & 587 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        90% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available.
        10% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        Materials are not yet delivered from Kabul
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% arrived in Kabul, Dec 10
Physical Progress (All Mains):              0%

                                          35
Physical Progress (House Connections):      0%
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor has not yet started the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials

   11. Qalat

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connection: 9.8 km Network & 413 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        100% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available
        Bends, fittings & valves under procurement
        3.0 km GRP pipes: available in KDR, but contractor DDRO delays transport,
           claiming exorbitant fees
        1.0 km HDPE pipes as above
        1.0 km HDPE pipes delivered in Jan 2011
        Valves, fittings and saddles, 20% materials arrived in Kabul, Dec 2010
Physical Progress (All Mains):
        Total:                            52%
        Principal Mains:                  0%
        Local Mains:                      78%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     0%;
Reasons for Delay:
        Contractor delaying the implementation
        Lacking supply of materials
        List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

   12. Kandahar

A)     Pipe Laying & House Connections: 47.88 km Network & 2,225 House
Connections
Availability of Materials:
        75% pipes available, but most fittings not yet available.
        25% pipes and all bends, fittings & valves under procurement: amendments of
           MUD-1137 & 1138 (KDR material: adaptors, valves, reducers, saddles, etc.)
           not approved by WB; possible re-order under CIDA funding; if not, this part
           of project cannot be completed
        1.3 km GRP pipes yet to be received
        1.5 km HDPE pipes & bends received on Jan 2011
Physical Progress (Total Mains):
        Total:                            53%
        Principal Mains:                  5%
        Local Mains:                      82%
Physical Progress (House Connections):     0%
Reasons for Delay:

                                         36
          Contractor delaying the implementation
          Lacking supply of materials
          List of customers for house connections not yet available from AUWSSC

Component 4:

      Engineering support and technical assistance to CAWSS continued till the end of
       the project.
      Contract for Kabul Sanitation was closed in May 2008 and Kabul Municipality
       has disputed the claims submitted by consult ants.

Component 5:

This component provided transitional financial support to CAWSS operation in the 15
cities continued for twenty months and generated detailed technical financial and
commercial data for the first time. Main outputs of the support were,

      Log book documentation introduced
      Completed and introduced structure of a CAWSS Staff Rules (CSR) handbook
       and first chapter (Attendance Regulations)
      Coverage of all O&M expenditures, staff salaries + bonus payments over the
       activity period ensured
      Training of accounting and managing staff (journals, profit/loss calculation,
       forecasts & budgeting, cash management) successfully conducted
      Training of the CAWSS staff in reading and writing Dari as well as selected ones
       in English and IT implemented
      A concise book keeping system established in all FSO SQ according to
       international accounting rules, electronic data processing and data transfer
      An easy but comprehensive Water Sector Management Information System (MIS)
       was developed, tested and handed over
      Sufficient computers installed and operated for financial reporting by trained staff
       across the CAWSS system
      Mismanagement of money addressed and reduced (however not fully checked)
      Substantial improvement of services (daily service time, number of house
       connections, appearance of water utility premises, customer service, uniforms,
       etc.) achieved, attendance to leakages in 24 hrs was made a standard
      Initiated systematic verification of incoming electricity bills, regular payment and
       resolution of disputes carried forward




                                           37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                      38
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                      Responsibility/
            Names                                 Title                     Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
                        Senior Water and Sanitation
Christophe E. Bosch                                                       SASES
                        Economist
Supervision/ICR
Karine Fourmond         Water and Sanitation Specialist                   SASEI
Muhammad Wali
                        Financial Management Analyst                     SARFM
Ahmadzai
Nagaraju Duthaluri      Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS
Deepal Fernando         Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS
Mariam Haidary          Program Assistant                        SASDO
                                                                 MNSW
Philippe Huc                     Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.
                                                                   A
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi              Operations Officer              SASDE
Asila Wardak Jamal               Consultant                      SASDI
Arun Kumar Kolsur                Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Asha Narayan                     Financial Management Specialist SARFM
                                 Sr Financial Management
Kenneth O. Okpara                                                SARFM
                                 Specialist
Mohammad Arif Rasuli             Sr Environmental Spec.          SASDI
Shyamal Sarkar                   Sr Sanitary Engineer            SASDU
Raja Rehan Arshad                Lead Operations Officer         SASDU
Tahir Akbar                      Research Analyst                SASDU

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)15
                                                                 USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                39                              140.41
  FY06                                                 0                                0
  FY07                                                 0                                0
  FY08                                                 0                                0


15
  Procurement and Financial Management staff effort in supervising the project and the cost of it, which
was significant, are not included in the above Table.


                                                   39
  FY09                          0     0
  FY10                          0     0

                  Total:     39     140.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                       0        0
  FY06                      40      165.20
  FY07                      24       95.43
  FY08                      15       46.17
  FY09                      16       63.63
  FY10                     N/A       48.60
  FY11                     N/A       43.13

                  Total:     95     462.16




                           40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                     42
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MUDA prepared the following implementation completion input for the project:


            URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    by
                   Ministry of Urban Development Affairs

Background

After the take-over of the Interim Afghan Government in 2002 led by President Hamid
Karzai, there has been a renewed interest of the international community in the socio-
economic and infrastructure development, and reconstruction of the country. World Bank
is among the international aid and lending agencies that have made significant
contribution in this regard.

Water is an important development sector of the country and water resources
development has attracted an increasing attention from donor agencies due to immense
social, economic and development impact of water resources in people’s lives. In recent
years, the concept of integrated water resources management has been gaining increasing
popularity and the Ministry of Energy and Water has been taking important measures to
ensure that the water resources in Afghanistan are developed in an integrated manner.
However, huge challenges lie ahead. Provision of Potable drinking water to both rural
and urban areas is one of the major development challenges to the Afghan Government.
Majority of the Afghan population has limited access to clean drinking water and the
provision of sanitation facilities is from worse to non-existent in most of the Afghan
towns.

The Ministry of Urban Development Affairs is responsible to lead the development
efforts in the urban areas of Afghanistan and provision of urban water supply and
sanitation services is one of the priorities for MUDA.

Considering the above-mentioned vital need of safe drinking water to urban inhabitants
of the country, this Urban Water Supply Project was initiated in Kabul and 13 provincial
towns across the country from the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) Grant.
This project was component “C? of the original scope as described in section 1.2 in this
document. The Ministry’s input in this ICRR is mainly focused on component “C?, and
component “E?, which is financial and technical support to Afghan Urban Water Supply
and Sanitation Corporation. The lead implementation agency of the Project is the
Ministry of Urban Development Affairs.

1. Project Development Objectives (PDO)

The Project Development Objectives are as follows:

                                          43
      (i)     Provide sustainable, improved water supply and sanitation services to the urban
              segment of the Afghan population;
      (ii)    Build the technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term Urban
              Water Supply and Sanitation (UWSS) program; and
      (iii)   Ensure continuity of investment by benefiting from the implementation
              arrangements already in place and fully operational.

      The objectives of the Project were quite relevant to Afghanistan context. After decades of
      war and conflict, the country had newly started its journey towards development and
      reconstruction. Clean drinking water is considered as a vital need for sustaining healthy
      life and improving the quality of human well-being.

      Therefore, the Bank’s intervention in the urban water supply sector was both timely and
      objectively planned. Regardless of the fact that the Project PDO could not be achieved
      due to problems in the implementation due to deficiencies in supervision and monitoring
      of the Project which had been outsourced to a Consultant, the capacity building at the
      Ministry and AUWSSC are considered a major achievement of this Project .

      1.1     Main Beneficiaries

 I.           The primary beneficiaries of the Project were the urban inhabitants (estimated 3.5
      million total population) in the following 13 provincial towns of the country who lacked
      access to clean drinking water facilities.

             Charikar
             Ghazni
             Kandahar
             Mazar-i-Sharif
             Qalat
             Gardez
             Jalalabad
             Mehtherlam
             Sheberghan
             Taloqan
             Maimana
             Puli-Khumri
             Zaranj

II.           The secondary beneficiary of the Project was the Ministry of Urban Development
      Affairs and its affiliated Central Authority for Water Supply and Sanitation (CAWSS)
      and Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Corporation (AUWSSC) whose
      operating costs, capacity building and institutional building was also one of the objectives
      of the Project. It is to be noted that CAWSS was liquidated in May 2009.

      1.2     Original Components (as approved):

                                                  44
The original scope of the Project consisted of the following main components:

Part A: Kabul Water Supply

Construction of the Upper Kabul River wellfield and associated transmission mains,
reservoirs and distribution networks.

Part B: Kabul Sanitation-Wastewater, On-site Sanitation and Solid Waste

Acquisition of equipment and construction of new facilities, including a workshop, a
septage disposal station, a solid waste transfer station and the first stage of a new sanitary
solid waste landfill.

Part C: Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation

Provision of water supply and sanitation services in provincial towns through: (i)
completion of rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems and initial expansion
of systems in selected provincial towns; and (ii) new constructions of systems in towns
which are not served by a water supply network.

Part D: Engineering Support and Technical Assistance to CAWSS and to Kabul
Municipality

   (1) Rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems, through the carrying out of
       technical studies and construction supervision, consistent with the Environment
       and Social Safeguards Framework, for selected water supply systems and
       construction packages.

   (2) Provision of systems operation and management support, including capacity
       building, human resources management, technical support for financial
       monitoring, water quality control, and awareness campaigns and involvement of
       communities.

   (3) Conducting technical studies, engineering designs and construction supervision
       for solid waste management and sanitation investments, consistent with the
       Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, including updating the
       Strategic Sanitation Plan.

Part E: Financial Support to CAWSS Operations

Provision of financial support for the operations of CAWSS, according to eligibility
criteria, functioning, implementation, and monitoring arrangements specified in the
Operation Manual.




                                             45
This is to be noted that out of the above 5 components of the Project, components A, C
and E are related to MUDA while component D is related to both MUDA and Kabul
Municipality. This document is focused mainly on components C and E.

Overall Evaluation:

It was realized during the implementation of the Project and after grant closure that the
Project components selection process had drawbacks resulting into a Project design with
overall estimated cost of US$ 96.7 million as against US$ 41 million of available ARTF
grant. However, the experience gained from the implementation of above-mentioned
components of this Project is valuable for the Bank as well as for MUDA. The Bank
realized that more investment needs to be made in institutional and technical capacity
building. It was also realized by different stakeholders that in general there is serious
shortage of skilled Contractors with the required technical capacity and experience in
implementing large scale water supply projects. Also, too much reliance on external
consultants is damaging for the overall performance of the infrastructure projects
implemented by government agencies. Therefore, in-house capacity building both from
technical and institutional aspects are crucial to the successful completion of urban water
supply projects.

1.3    Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation
       arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations):

The total cost of the five (5) components of the overall Project reached US$ 96.7 million
which was way above the available grant of US$ 41 million available under the ARTF.
Therefore, the Project original scope had to be significantly reduced. Since the Kabul
Water Supply component made a major share of the overall cost, it had to be deleted
from the scope except for a small portion of the bored wells.

One of the most important changes in the Project was the Project schedule. As per the
original scope the Project was supposed to be completed by 2007. However, due to
various unforeseen issues and problems, the Project could not be finished as planned and
the Bank had to grant three consecutive extensions up to December 2010. Unfortunately,
the Project could not be completed by December 2010 and the MUDA’s request for
extension up to December 2011 was not accepted by the Bank. Accordingly, the grant for
this Project was terminated on 31 December 2011.

The physical progress of the Project as reported by the Consultant is about 70 % for
component C (i.e. the Provincial Towns Water Supply Project). This progress includes
physical work and supply of materials.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry




                                            46
The Project was the first of its kind funded by World Bank. There had been limited
investment by the donors’ community in the urban development sector. The Project was
initiated to provide urgent relief in the form of potable water supply to urban residents.
The target was to achieve minimum water supply coverage of 30 %
households/population in the Project town as a short term measure.

KFW provided consulting support directly for Kabul Water Supply (component A
mentioned under 1.5) and MUDA obtained consulting support for components C and E.
Component B was implemented by Kabul municipality with another consultant and
several individual consultants supported them.

2.2 Implementation

Although MUDA was the implementing agency for the Project, due to limited technical
staff, a Consultant was hired to perform the Project management (including project
supervision, project monitoring contract management and reporting) functions in close
coordination with the CAWSS (which was liquidated in May 2009 and AUWSSC was
established) and MUDA. Since CAWSS was in transition and corporatization to
AUWSSC was happening, this adversely affected the overall performance of the Project.
Following are some of the other reasons that impacted the proper implementation of the
project:

      Failure of the first tendering phase in 2005 which required a time-consuming re-
       configuration of bid packages and the procurement concept.

      Large number of tenders and least responsive small number of bids that led to re-
       bidding and delays.

      Small size of construction contracts attracted contractors with limited financial
       and technical capacity and management experience, resulting in slow work
       progress

      General lack of technical and management capacity of contractors in the local
       market

      In general the Consultant’s underperformance was one of the key reasons for the
       extended delays in the implementation of the Project

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E):

The Project monitoring and evaluation was also the responsibility of the Consultant. The
M&E functions were not performed effectively and this seriously affected the overall
performance of the project implementation. The MIS system to be developed by the
consultants in this regard was not adequately operationalized.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

                                           47
The consultant was responsible for ensuring that the Safeguards and Fiduciary
Compliance related issues are taken care of.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

This project was terminated on 31 December 2010 due to inadequate progress and under-
performance in the past and it may not be applicable to provide a reasonable response to
this query. However, AUWSSC a corporate utility for urban water sector has taken over
the unfinished works in the provincial towns. These will be completed and operated as
the funds will be available. No timeline for completion and operation of those can be
forecast, but it may take about a year after the funds are secured.

   3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives,

The objectives of the Project were quite relevant to Afghanistan context. After decades of
war and conflict, the country had newly started its journey towards development and
reconstruction. Clean drinking water is considered as a vital need for sustaining healthy
life and improving the quality of human well-being.

Therefore, the Bank’s intervention in the urban water supply sector was both timely and
objectively planned. Regardless of the fact that the project PDO could not be achieved
due to problems in the implementation due to deficiencies in supervision and monitoring
of the project which had been outsourced to a Consultant, the capacity building at the
Ministry and AUWSSC are considered a major achievement of this project .

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

(i) Provide sustainable, improved water supply and sanitation services to the urban
segment of the Afghan population

The Project Development Objective could not be achieved. At physical progress of about
70 %, the Project was terminated on 31 December 2010 after 3 years of extension beyond
the originally planned schedule. However, it is to be noted that the Ministry thankfully
acknowledges the Bank’s support for this project which resulted into almost 70%
completion (in terms of works and supplies) of the project

It is now a challenge for MUDA to complete the remaining 30 % of the Project so that
the original PDO can be achieved.

(ii) Build the technical and institutional foundation for the medium-term Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation (UWSS) program; and




                                           48
 The Project significantly contributed in this regard, particularly in supporting the Afghan
Water Supply and Sanitation Corporation. This support was both in terms of capacity
building and technical assistance as well as financial support for the operations of the
AUWSSC. Although AUWSSC has not yet fully achieved the required institutional and
technical capacity to be able to handle large scale municipal water supply and sewerage
systems in design, implementation and operation stages, it has been making a gradual
progress.

MUDA has been actively supporting AUWSSC in this regard.

(iii) Ensure continuity of investment by benefitting from the implementation
arrangements already in place and fully operational.

As mentioned before, the ARTF grant for this project was closed on 31 December 2010
and no further extension was approved by the Bank due to overall performance of the
project. The project now stands at around 70 % of physical completion. However,
different towns have different levels of physical progress. The challenge now is to find
alternative investments for completion of the remaining portion of the project.

The implementing agency for this project was the Ministry. However due to limited
technical capacity at the time of the project development and during its implementation,
and shortage of qualified water supply engineers in the market, the project was
outsourced to a consulting engineering firm for construction supervision, monitoring and
evaluation and assistance in contract and financial management. During the
implementation, the consultant continuously underperformed, but it was also not feasible
to change the Consultant. This situation caused extended delays in the completion of the
project. During this period the CAWSS was liquidated and AUWSSC was created within
the framework of MUDA. This transition also, somehow, affected that overall progress of
the Project.

This incomplete project has now been handed over to AUWSSC as of 1 January 2011
that has been gradually building up its required capacity to successfully implement urban
water supply projects across the country. It is hoped that both MUDA and AUWSSC will
continue to work closely to attract future investments from different donors including
WB to continue with the implementation of this project until full completion and
achievement of the Development Objective. It is to be noted that KFW has already taken
over three provincial towns i.e. Mazar-i-Sharif, Puli-Khumri and Taloqan to finance the
completion of the remaining portion of water supply works in these provincial towns.

      4. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

4.1      Bank’s Performance

            (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry        (i.e.,   performance
                through lending phase):



                                            49
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory, based
on a cumulative analysis as listed below.

Criteria                    Rating                Justification
Strategic Relevance and     Satisfactory          The objectives of the Project were
Approach                                          quite relevant to Afghanistan context.
                                                  Clean drinking water is considered as a
                                                  vital need for sustaining healthy life
                                                  and improving the quality of human
                                                  well-being. Therefore, the Bank’s
                                                  intervention in the urban water supply
                                                  sector was both timely and objectively
                                                  planned.
Technical, Financial, and   Moderately            The project was an appropriate
Economic Aspects            Satisfactory          intervention in supporting the urban
                                                  water supply sector in the country.
                                                  However, at the time of entry the
                                                  amount of baseline data was limited. A
                                                  proper evaluation of the implementing
                                                  agency was not conducted to be used
                                                  in the project planning, design and
                                                  implementation. This caused a huge
                                                  deficit in the estimated cost and
                                                  available ARTF grant and the overall
                                                  project had to be descoped
                                                  significantly to match with the
                                                  available funds. Similarly, problems
                                                  were encountered during the
                                                  implementation of the project.
Policy and Institutional    Satisfactory          In general policy development process
Aspects                                           was weak. The project development
                                                  and implementation and institutional
                                                  changes were happening parallel. The
                                                  CAWSS was being liquidated and
                                                  AUWSSC was being created with
                                                  different regulatory and institutional
                                                  framework. This transition also
                                                  adversely affected this aspect of the
                                                  project. However, the creation of
                                                  AUWSS, per se, was a major
                                                  achievement and one of the
                                                  components of the PDO.
Stakeholder Consultation    Satisfactory          The Bank regularly held consultations
                                                  with all relevant stakeholders of the

                                           50
                                                   project.
Implementation               Satisfactory          The implementing agency for this
Arrangement                                        project was the Ministry. However due
                                                   to limited technical capacity and
                                                   shortage of qualified water supply
                                                   engineers in the market, the project
                                                   was outsourced to a consulting
                                                   engineering firm for construction
                                                   supervision, monitoring and evaluation
                                                   and assistance in contract and financial
                                                   management.


           (b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank performance with regards to the supervision of the project is considered
satisfactory. Support from the Bank for the success of the project was significant. The
Bank supervised the project both through its available technical staff in the Country
office as well as from it regional office as required. However, this supervision could have
been more effective and efficient if a team had been created within MUDA to close the
gap especially with regards to the Bank staff not being able to visit the sites due to
security reasons. Unfortunately, MUDA was not able to finance such a team and relied
mostly on its Consultant.

           (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s overall performance is considered satisfactory. Although the Project
Development Objective was not achieved in full, the project’s contribution towards
achievement of the PDO was significant. One of the components of the PDO was
strengthening the institutional set up for the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation (UWSS).
Bank’s support for corporatization of the Afghan Water Supply and Sanitation was
immense. It provided both technical and financial support.

It is understood that during the design and development of the project, some of the
decisions made were over-ambitious and were not in harmony with the realities of
Afghanistan as a post-conflict country. The planning phase required more effective
assessment of the baseline situation. However, the Bank realized these gaps and timely
supported the MUDA in particular and all other stakeholders in general.

The Bank was well-informed about the major constraints during the implementation of
the project that were beyond the MUDA’s control. Therefore, the Bank approved


                                            51
MUDA’s extension requests for the project for three (3) consecutive years beyond the
originally planned completion date of 2007.

The grant was closed on 31 December 2010 when the project physical completion was
around 70 %. The Bank had its own arguments for such a decision.

4.2    Borrower Performance

       (a) Government Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Criteria                   Rating              Justification
Government Ownership       Satisfactory        The Ministry has been highly
and Commitment to                              committed to achieve the Project
achieve the Development                        Development Objective by utilizing all
Objective                                      kinds of resources at its disposal. Even
                                               after the grant closure, MUDA has
                                               been actively coordinating with donors
                                               to seek their financial support in order
                                               to complete the remaining incomplete
                                               portion of the physical infrastructure.
                                               Due to MUDA’s commitment to this
                                               project, KFW has already taken over
                                               three (3) provincial towns to finance
                                               the incomplete works.
Provision of Enabling      Moderately          The Ministry started from very low
Policy Environment         Satisfactory        level of technical capacity in the urban
                                               water supply sector. It has gradually
                                               been building up on its capacity and
                                               the Directorate of Urban Water Supply
                                               and Sanitation has taken some
                                               important steps to establish a policy
                                               framework for the UWSS. It is to be
                                               noted that the Ministry has provided
                                               its relevant support wherever a policy
                                               level input was required.
Adequacy of Stakeholders   Moderately          The ministry has made every possible
Consultation               satisfactory        effort to ensure that adequate
                                               coordination is maintained among
                                               various stakeholders. At times, this
                                               could not achieved very effective due
                                               to limitations beyond the Ministry’s
                                               control.
Readiness for              Moderately          The implementing agency for this
Implementation             Satisfactory        project was the Ministry. However due

                                          52
                                               to limited technical capacity and
                                               shortage of qualified water supply
                                               engineers in the market, the project
                                               was outsourced to an international
                                               consulting engineering firm.
       (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Ministry of Urban Development Affairs was the main implementing agency and
owner of this project. However, the supervision, monitoring, financial and contract
management functions were outsourced to a Consulting Engineering Firm. Unfortunately,
these functions were not performed as per the expectations of the Ministry. This caused
huge delays in the timely implementation. Security risks in various provincial towns also
adversely affected the overall performance of the project.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In spite of the fact that the Project Development Objective (PDO) was not achieved due
to several constraints beyond control of the Ministry, a significant contribution was made
towards the PDO. The physical progress of the project now stands at around 70 %. One
of the components of this project was to strengthen the institutional arrangement of
UWSS. MUDA successfully completed the corporatization of Afghan Water Supply and
Sanitation services through the financial and technical support of WB and other
stakeholders. This is considered a major achievement from this development intervention.

   5. Lessons Learned

The Project was the first of its kind funded by World Bank. There had been limited
investment by the donors’ community in the urban development sector. The Project was
initiated to provide urgent relief in the form of potable water supply to urban residents.
The target was to achieve minimum water supply coverage of 30 %
households/population in the Project town as a short term measure.

At the time of the project inception, the Ministry had limited technical capacity to handle
a project of this size and scope. Therefore, the Project’s supervision, monitoring was
outsourced to a Consulting Firm. The Consultant was also tasked to assist in the financial
and procurement management of the Project. Unfortunately, the Consultant’s overall
performance was not as per expectations of the Ministry. This caused unforeseen delays
in the implementation of the project.

The project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 2007 had to be extended
for 3 additional years up to 2010. Once the Ministry realized that the Project might not be
completed even by 2010, it formally requested the Bank for another extension up to

                                            53
December 2011 based on recommendations of the Consultant and the actual physical
progress of about 70 %. However, the Bank, for its own reasons, terminated the grant as
of 31 December 2010.

The grant’s closure , while a great shock and disappointment for the Ministry for not
being able to deliver on its commitment to provide clean drinking water to the residents
in 13 towns across the country, is also considered an organizational asset in the form of
lessons learned for its future interventions in the urban water supply and sanitation sector.
Following are some of the most important lessons learned from this project from project
development and initiation to implementation:

   Technical and institutional capacity is the key to perform various functions
   Infrastructure projects should be planned, designed and implemented in realistic
    manner keeping in view the Afghanistan development context.
   Overambitious approaches in development initiatives are both in-effective and result
    into either less efficient performances or failures in some cases
   Coordination and effective communication among various stakeholders are necessary
    elements for the successful performance of infrastructure projects.
   Roles, responsibilities and functions need to be clearly identified.
   MUDA, together with other government ministries and relevant agencies, need to
    focus on measures to improve the technical capacity of the Contractors in Water &
    Sanitation Sector. For this purpose several measures need to be taken to engage the
    private sector with the active financial and technical support from potential donors.
   Human capital development is crucial to the success of any development initiative.
   World Bank and other donors need to increase their focus on building the in-house
    capacity of MUDA to reduce too much reliance on consultants for sustainability of
    the development initiatives in future.




                                             54
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

ARTF Short Term Support to Urban Water and Sanitation Sector - Project Document,
February 2005.

ARTF Grant Agreement, February 2005.

Amendment to ARTF Grant Agreement, September 2005.

Amendment to ARTF Grant Agreement, February 26, 2010.

Water Sector Aide Memoire, December 2004.

Aide Memoire, February 2006.

Aide Memoire, September 2008.

Project Status Report, “Assessment of Additional Resources Needed for Project
Completion – Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation?, Fichtner Water and
Transportation – Kocks Consult – BETS, January 2010.

Consultants’ Final Report, “Extension of Consultancy Services For Sanitation
Improvements in Kabul City, Final Report?, Messrs. Gauff Ingenieure/ICON/IBU, May
2008.

Consultants’ Final Report, “Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project – Provincial
Towns Water Supply and Sanitation?, Messrs. Fichtner Water and Transportation –Kocks
Consult – BETS, February 2011.




                                         56
