Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9244
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
(CREDIT 1094-SL)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performunce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency - Leone
1980    US$1.00 = 0.9528
1981    US$1.00 = 0.8639
1982    US$1.00   0.8078
'983    US$1.00   0.5958
1984    US$1.00 = 0.3984
1985    US$1.00 = 0.2114
1986    US$1.00 = 0.1191
Abbreviations
ACRE -    Adaptive Crop Research and Extension
ASSP -    Agriculture Sector Support Project
BADEA-    Banque Arabe pour le Development Economique en Afrique
CARE -    Cooperative American Relief Everywhere
DOPC -    Daru Oil Palm Company
EIADP-    Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
FFB  -    Fresh Fruit Bunch
FFC  -    Farmers Finance Company
FOB  -    Free on Board
GDP  -    Gross Domestic Product
GOSL -    Government of Sierra Leone
IADP -    Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IDA  -    International Development Association
IFAD -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF  -    International Monetary Fund
M&E  -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF  -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MANR -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MDEP -    Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOW  -    Ministry of Works
MNR  -    Ministry of Natural Resources
MPP  -    Model Production Programme
NUC  -    Njala University College
PEMSU-    Planning, Evaluation, and Monitoring Services Unit
PESU -    Project Evaluation and Services Unit
PFP  -    Policy Framework Paper
RMWA -    Regional Mission in Western Africa (World Bank Office)
RRRS -    Rokupr Rice Research Station
SAR  -    Staff Appraisal Report
SLPMB-    Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SMP  -    Seed Multiplication Project
SMU  -    Seed Multiplication Unit
T&V  -    Training and Visit
UNDP -    United Nations Development Programme
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Ot,ect Gr~al
Operatmiw Evaluwtkm
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone Eastern Integrated
Agricultural Development Proiect III (Credit 1094-SL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone - Eastern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project III (Credit 1094-SL)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restlicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
(CREDIT 1094-SL)
-------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.                                                                           i
Evaluation Summary   ........................................    iii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .............................                  1
Background ...................................                  1
Project Objectives and Description ...........                  4
Project Design and Organization ..............                  5
Project Implementation .......................                  8
Project Results ..............................                 10
Project Sustainability .......................                 12
Bank Performance .............................                 13
Borrower Performance .........................                15
Project Relationship .........................                15
Consulting Services ..........................                 16
Project Documentation and Data ...............                16
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........                   18
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ............                19
Project Timetable ............................                20
Disbursements .---...........  20
Project Implementation .......................                21
Project Costs and Financing ..................                22
Project Impact ...............................                23
Direct Benefits ...............--.--.                   23
Economic Impact ...............--------.                24
Financial Impact ...............                        25
Studies ...................-.------.                   26
Status of Covenants ...................               -       -- 26
Use of Bank Resources ........................    27
Staff Inputs ............---. 27
Missions ..............  27
Map of the Project Area
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
(CREDIT-1094 SL)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Eastern
Integrated Agricultural Development Project III (EIADP III) for which
Credit 1094-SL in the amount of US$ 12.0 million was approved on January
13, 1981. The Credit closed on September 30, 1987 inclusive of a one year
extension. As of September 1989, the credit had an undisbursed balance in
the amount of US$ 2.97 million. 1/ Since the suspension of disbursements to
Sierra Leone in early 1987, no further supervision work was undertaken.
No PCR for the project has been prepared by the Borrower. This
PCR was prepared by Bank staff at Headquarters by the Agriculture
Operations Division of the Africa Regional Office. Parts I and III were
sent to the Borrower for comment with a request to provide a Review of the
project from the Borrower's point of view, but none was received.
Preparation of the PCR, started in the third quarter of FY90, is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Development Credit
Agreement, available supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda. Disbursements to Sierra
Leone remain suspended.
1/ Disbursements to Sierra Leone were suspended early 1987, but for certain
expenditures such as those earlier contracted for consultancy services and
training, disbursements were allowed to continue through September 1989.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
(CREDIT-1094 SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Objectives
1.01      With Sierra Leone's declining traditional exports, a rapidly
rising budget deficit and food import bill, and wide income disparities,
the Government, around the mid 1970s, proclaimed agriculture to be a
priority sector in the country's economic development. New overall
objectives for the sector were an ambitious 5.4 percent real growth, self-
sufficiency in rice, improved nutrition, and increased production of major
export crops. The selected vehicle for the development and growth of the
agriculture sector was the integrated agricultural development project
(IADP) approach. In Sierra Leone this approach tended to be narrow and
area specific with little emphasis given to reducing sector inefficiency.
Consequently, the IADPs focussed more on production activity and essential
infrastructure and less on the policy and incentive framework within
agriculture.
1.02      Project Objectives  The broad aim of the Eastern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project Phase III (EIADP III) was to increase
production and incomes in the project area through greater access by
farmers to extension, inputs and credit, and improved feeder roads and
village wells. Since the project was preceded by two earlier phases,
implementation in the third phase was to be carried out largely through
existing institutions. No major changes were to be introduced in cropping
patterns. Productivity increases were to be obtained through area and
yield increases by use of high yielding varieties, more careful attention
to recommended inputs, and better crop husbandry. The project was
multipurpose and complex and had two primary objectives. The first was to
increase food and export crop production and farm incomes by expanding the
area under Phase II from 10,500 km2 to 15,350 km2 to cover almost the
entire eastern region of Sierra Leone, and, the second, to promote upland
crop development among farmers not reached under the earlier phases. Also
included in the project was provision for the construction of village
wells, feeder roads and chiefdom tracks, and institutional strengthening
and training. 2,
2/ The chiefdom tracks referred to were crude access tracks established at
the time local governments were headed by village/community Chiefs.



iv
2.   Implementation Experience
2.01      Poor macro performance and lack of budgetary discipline were the
main impediments to project performance. Implementation was marred by
Sierra Leone's acute financial situation. The result was inadequate
counterpart funding, and suspension of disbursements by financiers.
Specific project-related factors affecting implementation were procurement
irregularities and long delays in the application of procurement procedures
which led to strainr in relationships with cofinanciers. There was little
effective dialogue between the cofinanciers and few serious efforts at
resolving substantive issues that inhibited successful implementation. The
project faced frequent and severe shortages of quality seed for coffee and
rice. The credit and input supply systems, too, were basically non-
functional at project initiation because of weak financial and
administrE-ive control. Poor and insufficient knowledge of the complex
socio-economic environment and a growing labor constraint also made
implementation difficult. There was an absence of a strong research
component and technical packages were generally perceived by farmers to
have been waak. In some cases this was due to insufficient testing at the
farm level and in others due to the state of technological development, at
the time, of the packages. This dampened the otherwise positive aspects of
high farmer participation as indicated by the numbers of farmers that had
been exposed to extension advice by the improving quality and competence of
extension staff.
2.02      In spite of numerous drawbacks, it may be said that project
implementation, supported by generally good project management and
organization, was flexible. With disbursements suspended on different
occasions, activities were brought almost to a complete stand-still in the
later project years. By this time, the project was forced to resort to
commercial bank overdrafts even to pay its regular wage bill. Steps were
thpn taken to deal with the dire situation by scaling down project
activities, stepping-up efforts at integrating the remaining activities
into the respective regional Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR) structure, and transferring the tree crops component to the
Agricultural Sector Support Project (ASSP).
3.   Results
3.01      The overall result for the EIADP III is that there were serious
shortfalls in physical targets, limited progress in institutional
strengthening, and weak and ineffective agricultural research. However,
the project was able to reach, more in terms of increasing awareness of
improved packages rather than their sustained use, a large number of
farmers through agricultural support services, primarily through extension
messages. The magnitude of farmers exposed to these messages came close
to, or surpassed, the target set at appraisal. Yet, general shortfalls in
physical targets resulted. The number of farmers that actually adopted the
improved packages fully, or on a sustained basis, were, thus, significantly
lower. Apart from the country's serious financial situations, this was in
large part due to shortages of quality seedlings, lack of mobility, and
difficulty in obtaining credit and inputs. These results highlight the
importance of good coordination between extension and input supply. In the
absence of this, extension itself, no matter how efficient, cannot be



v
effective in raising yields and net incomes of farmers on a sustained
basis.
3.02      The broad result of the project was reflected in specific
shortfalls and achievements. Except for the new planting of cocoa, and the
consolidation of developed swamps for rice cultivation, the SAR physical
targets for crop production were not achieved. There were also large
shortfalls in the village wells and roads programs. In comparison,
performance was slightly better on the institutional side in the areas of
extension and on-the-job training at junior levels. The modified Training
and Visit (T&V) extension system was successful to the extent that it was
able to motivate a large number of farmers to participate in the project.
However, continued participation and full and sustained adoption of
improved practices was inhibited more by an inadequacy and irregularity in
the supply of inputs, especially seedlings, and less to the competence and
efforts of the extension staff. An extension program which had been
innovatively designed for women, and one which was locally acceptable,
proved to be popular. The Farmers' Finance Company (FFC), whose financial
viability had deteriorated sharply over the years, was given the
responibility for providing services for input supply and credit. Due to
the project initiative, FFC's performance improved substantially, even
though its financial viability, without continued future financial
assistance from government, remained in question. FFC's record of loan
recovery which had been extremely weak in the past was strengthened through
effective new procedures for lending and monitoring including stiff action
against defaulters. Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC) had some success with the
outgrower program= and with its mill operations. This was a result of the
agreement with th'e Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) for higher prices for
fresh fruit bunch (FFB) and palm oil, as well as the installation of a new
boiler at the DOPC mill. There was some progress in monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) capability, albeit small. The targets for village wells
and roads had to be scaled down. The decisions to do so were pragmatic and
were in response to issues related to cost-effectiveness for the wells
program and insufficient funds for operation and maintenance in the case of
feeder roads.
4.   Sustainability
4.01      A time lapse since project closing of almost three years, with
no communication on project developments per se, makes it difficult to
assess the project's ultimate impact. This is particularly so since Sierra
Leone's financial and economic situation has remained critical. In the
absence of a PCR mission subsequent to project closing, a detailed
evaluation of the extent to which project performance had deteriorated
under the country's serious funding circumstances, and the resilience, if
any, of the project, cannot be adequately addressed. Given the country's
continused financial difficulties and on the basis of accounts given by Bank
staff that recently visited selected project areas in connection with the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), it is unlikely that the project is
sustainable.
4.02      Bank staff report that the Bank-supported IADPs are viewed by
the Borrower and farmers as having been a failure with little impact on
agricultural production. The financial implications remain serious to this



vi
day and the MANR appears to be basically non-functional.  The planned
integration of IADPs into the MANR regional structures has not worked in
practice. Technical and managerial staff of the IADPs are said to have
been "rejectedw by their colleagues in MANR on account of resentment at
their having been better renumerated, trained and better equipped during
their assignments to the IADPs. The financial situation within MANR has
worsened with its budget devoted almost entirely to financing staff
salaries. The problem of sector inefficiency due to distorted policies
remains severe and is yet to be tackled. In retrospect, had the project
paid adequate attention tc the question of economic incentives in a
comprehensive manner, project and sector performance would both have
benefitted in the long-run.
5.   Findings and Lessons Learned
5.01      The overall lesson is that the project did not have the
anticipated impact on the Region's agricultural development, inter alia,
due to the Borrower's weak economic management and financial crisis. It is
unrealistic to assume project success in a macro environment that is highly
unstable and prone to perpetuate existing distortions in relative factor
and product prices. At the project level, the main lesson to be learned is
that given a serious financial constraint and weak institutions, it would
be prudent to favor simplicity in project design. Less ambitious projects
with complex designs in a country and sector saddled with serious macro and
findncial constraints, and aggravated by limited absorptive capacity and
poor or non-existing infrastructure, are likely to be far more successful
in achieving their objectives and contributing to longer term development
and growth. This is particularly true in instances where the record of
macroeconomic management has been poor and where it has continued to
rapidly deteriorate.
5.02      Other lessons for relevant projects include:  (i) the importance
of understanding and reducing the economic cost associated with maintaining
a policy and incentive framework that is clearly seen to be detrimental to
project success and sector efficiency; (ii) the need to carefully assess
all risks, political, macro and sector related, that could jeopardize
project success, and not only those that are obviously project-specific;
(iii) the benefit of maximizing the number of staff trained through courses
and on-the-job training so that training continues to be consolidated and
disseminated long after the project has closed; (iv) in matters that are
expected to become fairly routine, the need to ensure progressively reduced
dependence of indigenous staff on teaching and demonstration by experts
financed under the project; (v) the importance of preparing initial
assessments for the demand and supply of essential inputs, and contingency
plans should the situation alter, particularly with respect to shortfalls
in supply; (vi) the merit in adapting proven techriques to the country's
socioeconomic conditions as was done, for instance, in the project by
modifying the T&V approach, rather than merely replicating programs that
had been implemented elsewhere.
5.C3      A noteworthy feature of the project was the remarkable keenness
sh.)wn by farmers and women for participating in the project. The fruits of
this endeavor did not, however, come up to their expectations given the
shortages of seed and credit. In any case, high farmer participation even



vii
without problems of credit and input supply need not imply sustained growth
if the incentive framework and benefit cost ratios are not conducive and
sufficiently attractive to farmers. Future projects should ensure that
farmers and women do not become discouraged by project initiatives designed
to promote their economic well-being, by paying greater attention to sector
distortions with a view to correcting them. This is critical since an
enabling macro environment is a necessary but not sufficient condition for
sector and project success. Sector policy reforms are essential for
correcting distortions in the policy and incentive framework, and, in so
doing, creating an environment that is conducive to maximizing project
economic benefits and success.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
EASlERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
(CREDIT 1094-SL)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name                 Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development
Project III
Credit Number        1094-SL
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Sierra Leone
Sector               Agriculture
2.   BacSground
2.01.     Sierra Leone with a total area of 72,000 km2 has an estimated
population of 3.9 million, as of mid-1989, growing at an annual average
rate of 2.3 percent. Its per capita income in 1988/89 was estimated at SDR
160, fifty percent lower in real terms compared to 1979!80. The country
has good soil and climatic conditions and is also rich in minerals. It is
strongly dualistic with a small modern mining sector ¶i.?ich is a major
source of government revenue and export earnings, and a large traditional
agriculture sector that accounts for one third of GDP and employs 75
percent of the labor force. Agricultural productivity and yields are low.
Fertilizer is believed to be used by only three percent of the farmers, a
fifth of whom are said to depend on primitive tools and implements for
cultivation. The resource base, including fishing, if well developed and
managed, can lessen Sierra Leone's dependence on diamond mining and export,
promote economic diversification, enhance agricultural growth, and increase
employment and rural incomes.
2.02      As of June 1982, the Government had no official development
strategy, although agriculture, education and health were emphasized as
priority sectors in economic policy statements. A strategy for
agricultural development was, for the first time, explicitly outlined in
the 1974/75-78179 National Development Plan. 3/ Its main objectives were
accelerated economic growth, balanced regional development, and equitable
income distribution. Given serious financial and institutional constraints
the Plan proved to be overly ambitious. On sector development, specific
objectives called for a 5.4 percent growth in agriculture, self sufficiency
in rice, the staple crop, cultivated by 80 percent of the farmers, improved
3/ Compared to the late 1960s, agriculture became a priority sector with
its share in the development budget having increased eight-fold from four
percent in 1969 to 32 percent in 1978.



2
nutrition, and increased production of major export crops. 4/ The
expansion of agricultural production through integrated agricultural
development projects (IADPs) with focus on strengthened sector support
services, improved research and planning, and a more effective Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) was to be the hallmark of the
sector strategy. 5/ It was expected that by the mid-1980s, 30 percent of
the country would be covered by IADPs.
2.03      Past Performance.  Agriculture's performance over the years has
been curtailed by poor incentives, excessive taxation of export crops, low
budgetary allocations, and weak institutions and rural infrastructure.
Sierra Leone's serious and prolonged financial cons'raints were largely
responsible for the sector's progressive deterioration during the last
fifteen years. This contrasts sharply with the impressive economic growth
during the first decade of the country's independence starting in 1962. In
fact, no economic growth took place in Sierra Leone in the 1980s. The
decade was also characterized by high inflation which peaked at 170 percent
in 1986/07. With sharp oil price increases in the 1970s, an overvalued
Leone, a rapidly rising import bill, stea;,- depletic.n of exploitable gold.
diamond, and iron reserves, Sierra Leone's trade balance worsened and was
aggravated by reduced prices of coffee and cocoa. 6/ But the more serious
and underlying cause of the economic decline was weak economic manaRement
and lack of budgetary control that became progressively worse with time
Government spending on rice and petroleum subsidies accounted for 10
percent of recurrent expenditures in 1973/74, and absorbed more than one-
third of the revenue increase. Fertilizer, and chemicals and sprayers for
tree crops were subsidized at 50 percent and 100 percent, respectively,
making these a further imposition on the already difficult budgetary
situation.
2.04      Efforts at Economic Recovery.  Attempts have been made, on
several occasions, to resolve, together with the Bank and Fund, Sierra
Leone's dire financial situation. A number of financial arrangements
proposed with the Fund in the last ten years include: a stand-by
arrangement in 1979, an extended facility in 1981, a drawing under the
4/ Having been self-sufficient until the early 1950s, Sierra Leone became a
net importer of rice with imports averaging 50,000 tons annually for .he
next twenty years.
5/ A lack of coordination among sector institutions, for example, MAF, MNR.
SLPMB, etc. had made the development and operation of consistent sector
policies difficult.
6/ Production and productivity of coffee and cocoa, Sierra Leone's two
major export crops had been adversely affected not only by an overvalued
Leone, but also by pricing and marketing policies detrimental to their
progress. First, the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) held the
monopoly on the marketing and export of both crops, and second, the
producer price for both was set at unremunerative levels, not to exceed 65
percent of the FOB price for coffee and 59 percent for cocoa. Each crop
was subject to an export tax of 30 percent, and export proceeds from both
were used to f4nance the import and distribution of rice.



3
compensatory financing facility in 1983, a stand-by arrangement in 1984,
and an arrangement under the structural adjustment facility together with a
stand-by arrangement in 1986. By and large, most of these arrangements
were inadequately implemented. Since 1986, yet more attempts have been
made to draw up a workable adjustment program, but the country has been
unable to fulfill its financial obligations under these. At end 1980, the
country was behind in its debt service payments on eight Bank loans and IDA
credits in the amount of US$1.03 million, and since early 1987 accumulated
arrears to the Bank led to its being placed on nonaccrual status. Starting
early 1989, a series of adjustment measures was implemented. The exchange
rate was further depreciated, and private trade in cocoa and coffee, and in
the import of rice, sanctioned. A more serious effort was made to raise
revenue and collection, and redundant civil service staff were laid-off.
In mid-December 1989, except for trade in gold and diamonds, import and
export licenses werc abolished, and fiscal and monetary policy was
strengthened. As of May 1990, Sierra Leone's overdue financial obligations
to the Fund were approximately SDR 73 million. Efforts towards a
satisfactory resolution of the country's financial and macro predicament
are still being actively pursued.
2.05      In retrospect, the National Development Plan and its policy
context proved to be basically ineffective in correcting key macro
distortions because of the weak monetary, fiscal and exchange rate
policies. These had focussed on .esource mobilization to meet short term
needs of the public sector rather than on Sierra Leone's long term
development and sustained growth. The net effect of the country's economic
policies was to emphasize consumption to the detriment of the trade and
current account balances which continued to be negative and increasingly
became a cause for concern. The timing of the Plan coincided with a rapid
erosion of foreign exchange earnings and deteriorating fiscal performance.
With lack of policy direction and budgetary control, it, therefore, had
little success in restructuring the macro policy framework in favor of
development oriented activities.
2.06      In line with the adjustment programme starting in 1986, efforts
were made by GOSL to establish effective linkages between project, sector
and macro policy objectives. Export crop prices were increased, subsidies
reduced, public finances and public payrolls better controlled, and a
limited float of the Leone introduced. These measures also produced two
disturbing results. First, with government salaries reduced to less than
subsistence levels because of devaluation and higher prices, the existing
low motivation and morale in the civil service became worse. Second,
discontent among the freshly laid-off staff got perpetuated, who, in the
absence of viable alternatives, increasingly turned to agriculture for
employment. The impact of these measures on agricultural production was
mixed. While more remunerative export crop prices and the currency
depreciation led to improved incentives for tree crop exploitation and
export, the overall positive effect of these was dampened by low morale and
poor rural infrastructure. The magnitude of the marketable surplus that
might otherwise have emerged was accordingly reduced and so, too, were
farmers' actual and potential incomes.



4
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Project Objectives.  The EIADP III was the third of the IDA-
financed integrated agricultural development projects in Sierra Leone's
Eastern Province. The province, with an area of 16,000 km2, accounted for
20 percent of Sierra Leone's population, 80 percent of which was dependent
on agriculture for its livelihood. The first two IADPs in the eastern
region had covered the periods December 1972 through December 1975, and
January 1976 through March 1980, respectively, with an extension of the
closing date of the latter to June 1981. EIADP I, a pilot project, had
encompassed a relatively small area, set up a project management unit, and
provided smallholders with credit and extension services. This was
succeeded by EIADP II whose main aim was to secure the progr.ss made under
the pilot project by establishing farm service centers, and strengthening
extension, credit, seed farms, and training.
3.02      The primary objectives of EIADP III were first, to increase the
production of food and export crops and farm incomes by expanding the area
under phase II from 10,500 km2 to 15,350 km2 to cover almost the entire
eastern region, and second, to promote upland crop development among
farmers not reached under the two earlier phases. Improved farming
techniques were to be introduced, the extension system strengthened, and
input delivery and credit services to farmers made more accessible and
reliable. All agricultural support services in the region were to be
integrated with MANR, the overall planning and development capacity of
which was also to be improved. The subsidy on fertilizer was to be
reduced, and that on chemicals and sprayers for tree crops eliminated. An
estimated 12,600 farm families were to benefit directly from the project's
crop development and credit programmes. Most participating farmers were
very poor, and believed to earn per capita incomes of less than US$200 per
annum; at least 20 percent of these were below Sierra Leone's poverty
income threshold of US$80. It was also expected that 50,000 of the 100,000
farm families in the area would benefit from the project's extension
advice, village wells, and road construction programmes.
3.03      Project Description.  The project, as agreed to at Negotiations,
generally complied with the objectives discussed in the preparation report,
but reduced the overly optimistic acreage of several of the proposed
physical targets for cultivation and development. It consisted of the
following:
(a) smallholder crop development with provision for credit for labor,
essential agricultural inputs, and machinery and equipment. Seasonal and
medium term financing to farmers at 20 percent and 15 percent annual
interest rates, respectively, was to be made available for: (i) increased
production of inland swamp ricf through better crop husbandry on about
2,000 hectares partially developed under previous phases; (ii) increased
production of upland rice and cassava on about 10,000 ha through the
introduction of improved planting material; (iii) rehabilitation of 800 ha
of existing coffee plantations as part of a pilot program involving the
introduction of a higher input system; (iv) improved yields on about 1,000
hectares of existing cocoa holdings through a rehabilitation package of
effective pest and disease control; and (v) the planting of about 2,000



5
hectares of new coffee holdings and about 800 hectares of new cocoa
holdings in high yielding varieties;
(b) civil works: (i) 300 wells in villages with populations of less
than 1,000; (ii) 300 km of penetration roads and chiefdom tracks, of which
at least 170 km would correspond to penetration roads; (iii) five houses
tor project management, extension officers and the project engineer; and
(iv) a workshop for m.aintaining project financed vehicles and equipment in
Kono district;
(c) Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC): (i) expansion of the oil palm
estate capability through the planting and cultivation of an additional 300
ha and the acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment; and (ii)
reorganization of the management and financial systems of DOPC;
(d) Farmers Finance Company (FFC): (i) recruitment of a Credit
Specialist; (ii) improvement of stiff quarters and accommodation; and (iii)
construction of four service centers and drying floors for coffee and
cocoa;
(e) Agricultural Services: (i) maintaining and strengthening the
existing Project Unit and placing all agricultural services in the region
under its control; (ii) expanding training and improving the direction and
quality of extension and farm related services; (iii) setting up an
engineering unit to oversee the engineering aspects of land planning for
swamp development, road and well construction, and the workshop; and (iv)
establishing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit;
(f) Support Services under which were to be financed: (i) specific
needs of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's (MAF) Planning,
Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit (PEMSU); 7/ and (ii) a project
coordinator in the MAF;
(g) Training and Studies: (i) a health education program for the use
and maintenance of village wells constructed by the project; (ii) in-
country and overseas training for management staff responsible for the
project in the MAF, FFC, DOPC and the PEMSU of MAF; (iii) a baseline socio-
economic survey followed by an annual monitoring and evaluation program in
the designated project area; and (iv) a research program for improving
smallholder production of cocoa, coffee and oil palm.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      The project design was governed by the urgent need to arrest the
decline in Sierra Leone's traditional exports and to give particular
attention to projects that could reduce import requirements and yield high
foreign exclange benefits and government revenues. Equally important, and
7/ In the case of Sierra Leone, the role of M&E was considered particularly
complex and demanding because of large variations in the prevailing farming
systems and potential farm development patterns in different parts of the
country.



6
also vitcl from Government's and Bank's point of view, was the need for
consistency and continuity of objectives with the two previous IADPs in the
eastern region. In these respects, the project design was conceptually
appropriate and was amenable to changes, if conditions were to so warrant.
4.02      Yet in relation to the two earlier projects in the eastern
region, there were two aspects of design that reduced the project's
effectiveness. First, the design of the EIADP III was much more complex
and ambitious in terms of its many components as well as the larger
geographical area to be covered. These were to make the project difficult
to implement. Second, given that the objective of raising productivity,
employment and rural incomes was a foremost consideration in the region's
agricultural development effort, the project design appears to have been
exceptionally weak in the area of agricultural research, especially
adaptive research, and its links to extension. 8/ As an example, a strong
and well designed research component was indispensable to addressing
weaknesses and/or lack of knowledge of the effectiveness of technical
packages for the improved cultivation of upland rice. This was a professed
area of controversy inherited from the earlier phases when the argument of
lack of suitability of technical packages was pitted against that of the
MANR being reluctant to assist peasant upland crops. Moreover, the factor
intensity of the technical packages was found in many instances to be
inappropriate in view of the labor constraint.
4.03      The above notwithstanding, there were some innovative aspects of
design which helped to lessen its inherent complexity and weaknesses.
These were especially evident in: (i) the crop development program where
the project design was adapted to the complex socio-economic environment,
insufficiently understood and inadequately studied, rather than attempts
made to radically alter it or the long followed cropping systems; (ii) the
modified Training and Visit (T&V) extension program which also took into
consideration this complex environment; and (iii) the special food
production program designed for women and to be organized by women
extension workers.
4.04      Both the scope and scale of the project appear to have been
appropriate in light of the project's objectives but not in terms of
implementation capacity. The first two projects in the eastern region had
covered only a fraction of the area suitable for tree crops and rice
cultivation. The first project, EIADP I, was given to great caution in
view of the poor data base and newness of the undertaking in the area, and,
the second, EIADP II, constrained by too optimistic a time frame,
particularly for upland rice improvement. However, by the end of the first
two phases, because of some increase in developed swamp land and initial
progress in establishing a data base, the prospects and scope for higher
crop production and improved project evaluation capability appeared to be
8/ The two research institutions, the Rokupr Rice Research Station (RRRS)
and the Njala University College (NUC), were insufficiently coordinated
with the MAF in terms of national objectives. In the early 1980s, the
USAID-financed Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (ACRE) project became
operational at NUC with focus on food crop research. There was no
provision for systematic research in tree crops.



7
encouraging. Thus the optimistic targets for EIADP III. There was also
the stronger likelihood of more effective communication between the
project's extension services and the FFC that had been made responsible for
handling credit and input supply. Yet the general lack of skills, poorly
designed training, weak institutions, low morale of ministerial and
regional staff compared to project staff, who happened to be generally
better trained and remunerated, presented a formidable challenge to the
project's scale and scope.
4.05      Project preparation was carried out by the Government's PEMSU
assisted by consultants and the Bank's Regional Mission in West Africa
(RMWA). The project was appraised in early 1980. Preparation appears to
have been comprehensive and well coordinated. The project was cofinanced
on a parallel basis by BADEA, and UNDP had extended a technical assistance
grant. In terms of timing, the project suffered during the fourteen and a
half month gap (June 30, 1980-September 16, 1981), that is, between the end
of Phase II and Phase III effectiveness. The difficult economic and
financial circumstances confronting Sierra Leone at the time, and the
severe lack of counterpart funding were largely responsible for the long
lapse between the two phases. The ensuing slump in the eastern project was
accentuated by corruption and weak financial management during the hiatus.
The result was a serious setback prior to project start-up.
4.06      The respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies and
institutions responsible for the project appear to have been clearly
understood and defined. Overall responsibility for project implementation
was to rest with the MAF. In addition, other project entities such as the
DOPC, FFC, MOW, CARE, ACRE, NUC, and the PEMSU were all given distinct and
clear terms of reference which assisted project implementation.
4.07      Factors in project design that had the potential of contributing
to the project's success were: first, that maximum use was made of the
administrative and organizational capacity established in the two earlier
phases. Rather than calling for the setting up of an entirely new
structure that would have increased project costs and delays in the initial
yea the project proposed the integration of agricultural services in
ord   :o reduce their overlap and waste; second, through maintaining the
basic pattern of the crop development programme of earlier phases modified
to incorporate the lessons learnt, the project design better ensured the
likelihood of success in achieving the project's primary objectives.
Aspects of project design that hampered project success were the absence
of: (i) a strong agricultural research component; (ii) a more thorough
design for the comnnlicated rice component; (iii) a better understanding of
the socio-economi situation in the project area especially with respect to
labor, tribal ana land -3nure issues; (iv) viable alternatives for credit
and input supply to FFC whose strengthening, given its excessively weak
financial situatior at the start of the project, would inevitably take more
time than had been allowed for in the SAR; and (v) a carefully compiled
staff training programme.



8
5.   Project Implementation
5.01      Through much of the implementation period, supervision missions
rated the project on average as 3. Strong non-project related factors
influenced implementation. The overriding non-project constraint was
Sierra Leone's acute financial difficulty and its debilitating effect on
implementation and the achievement of project targets. With the suspension
of disbursements by both IDA and BADEA, the project was faced with the
bleak prospect of activities coming to a complete halt. Project staff
salaries had not been paid and work stoppages threatened the project. It
was then recommended that the closing date be extended by one year from
September 30, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
5.02      There were several project-specific constraints in addition.
Initially, project start-up had been delayed because of difficulty with
recruiting the Senior Extension Trainer. Yet the more serious problems at
effectiveness were liquidity related due to inadequate counterpart funding,
the poor record of credit recovery of the FFC, and inappropriate pricing
policies in the palm oil subsector which had adverse affects on the
financial situation of the DOPC. With the appointment of a new Project
Manager and Chief Accountant, project organization and implementation
improved considerably. However, delays in procurement, irregular
reporting, and major cost overruns hampered this progress. Furthermore,
project difficulties were compounded by the complex socio-economic
environment and a complicated rice component. Progress in upland rice had
suffered, as in the previous phase, from the absence of suitable technical
packages, seed shortages, and inadequate and poor supervision of farmers
new to the project. The development of swamps, too, was affected by the
shortage of seed, lack of qualified land planning staff, and the presence
of iron toxicity in the soils. A general decline in the quality of
training had also set in.
5.03      Variance between SAR targets and achievements could have been
avoided by a less ambitious project design. Prior to project initiation,
the country's financial situation, and the state of sector institutions and
infrastructure was known to be critical and rapidly deteriorating. Under
these circumstances, with limited absorptive capacity and a growing labor
constraint, greater realism in setting physical targets would have been
appropriate for both crop development, and village wells and roads. A
viable programme each for upland cultivation and swamp rice, with technical
packages readily available for the former and careful land planning for the
latter, could have enhanced rice production. A strong research component,
bearing in mind farmers' strong preferences for long established cropping
patterns could, thus, have contributed to greater success of the crop
development program.
5.04      While the SAR had correctly identified three project risks, all
of which were project specific, it appears to have underestimated the risks
associated with the country's weak economic and financial management, low
absorptive capacity, and deteriorating creditworthiness prior to and at
preparation. In addition, in view of the labor-intensive nature of the
technical packages proposed by the project and a growing labor constraint
in the project area, the implications of labor shortages for fulfillment of
the targets for crop development were not fully recognized. There are



9
indications in supervision reports that some of the technical packages
recommended to farmers had not been sufficiently tested leading to lower
adoption rates, partial adoption, and even reversion to traditional systems
as was the case with swamp rice. The SAR appeared relatively optimistic
that problems stemming from Sierra Leone's rapidly increasing trade
deficit, upward trend in the food import bill, and declines in the coffee
and cocoa export price would be resolved through external assistance and
debt adjustment provided by the Paris Club and the IMF. Similarly, it did
not sufficiently consider the implications of continued sector distortions
as impediments to the achievement of project targets. Sector issues were
left to be addressed by the economic and sector work that was proposed to
follow. Low agricultural productivity and yields, compounded by sector
inefficiencies, had, till now, prevented Sierra Leone from deriving full
benefit in years of favorable international prices. There was, thus, a
clear and urgent need for a strong policy and incentive framework conducive
to efficient agricultural growth at the time that the IADPs were being
implemented.
5.05      A factor not foreseen and which most affected project
implementation was the further worsening of Sierra Leone's already acute
financial situation during the project period. This serious constraint was
reflected in: (i) inadequate and delayed government funding for the
project; (ii) suspension of disbursements by both IDA and BADEA due to the
country's inability to service its debts; (iii) a less than satisfactory
working relationship between BADEA and the country, due in part to the non-
payment of arrears and mismanagement of procurement; (iv) obstacles to crop
development as a result of shortages of inputs, particularly seed and
fertilizer; and (v) serious delays in the procurement of essential vehicles
and equipment caused by lack of familiarity with procurement guidelines and
aggravated by delayed decisions. In fact, it was irregularities in
procurement together with Sierra Leone's inability to pay off external
arrears that led finally to the suspension of disbursements by the IDA and
BADEA. While the extent of gravity of the macro economic situation could
not have been foreseen, some project-specific safeguards might have been
considered. For instance, more efficient arrangements to better align the
demand and supply of essential inputs based on alternative sources of
supply, and a realistic assessment of the project's capacity to correctly
handle procurement with an initial training program and follow-up training
sessions would have helped in alleviating some obvious and serious
constraints.
5.06      There were some actions and/or decisions that were able to
enhance implementation. These were additional to the important agreement
concluded between the GOSL and the Bank for raising the wholesale and
retail prices of palm oil and the mill-gate price for fresh fruit bunches
(FFB). First, the trade-off in the decision to alter the design of the
roads component in the later project years with a view to ensuring the
essential and proper maintenance of completed roads was sound. Second, on
ascertaining that land contiguous to the DOPC estate for its expansion in
the amount required would not be obtainable, the project included an
outgrower component to make up the shortfall in plantings. Third, IDA
agreed to DOPC's urgent need to reallocate funds from buildings to the
purchase of a new boiler for replacing the non-functioning boiler at the
mill. Fourth, given the lengthy delays in the procurement of items funded



10
by BADEA, the Bank amended the Credit Agreement to enable the project to
obtain essential vehicles and equipment. Fifth, with the acute funding
constraint faced by the project, the decision to transfer, in project year
4, the tree crop component to the Agricultural Sector Support Project
(ASSP) was a good one. Sixth, even though a comprehensive examination of
sector policies had not been carried out, the project correctly emphasized
the need for: (a) flexible pricing for FFB and palm oil to ease storage and
cash flow problems faced by the DOPC; (b) the FFC to become a licensed
buying agent for the purchase of coffee and cocoa products; and (c)
positive interest rates to be charged on seasonal and development loans to
farmers.
5.07      Actions and decisions not taken and which could have assisted
project implementation include: (i) prior to effectiveness, resolution of
land tenure issues affecting the proposed expansion of the DOPC nucleus
estate; (ii) ensuring the timely and adequate availability of inputs and
credit, such as seed for upland rice, and credit for the purchase of
chemicals for pest and disease control, and pruning equipment for the cocoa
and coffee rehabilitation programmes; (iii) regular revisiting of the
status of crop research with the aim of strengthening adaptive research and
its links to extension; (iv) stronger efforts to involve BADEA in regular
supervision, and especially in solving major problems connected with
procurement and disbursement; and (v) in view of serious soil erosion in
the area, the promotion of citrus and kola, crops which were believed to be
effective in arresting soil erosion, through recruitment of appropriate
specialists and careful farm planning. On the problem of shortage of seed,
operations assisted by donors including the establishment of the Seed
Multiplication Unit (SMU) had proved insufficient to alleviate the
shortages, and alternative sources of supply were not readily available.
This weakened the chances of success of the crop development program.
6.   Project Results
6.01      Achievements.  Despite the many handicaps, the project made
progress on several fronts. In later years of implementation, activity in
tree crops, the country's major agricultural exports, was stepped up,
through planting and/or rehabilitation. Progress was also made in swamp
development. There were other areas, too, where the project made gains,
despite discouraging and difficult financial circumstances. Most
noticeable was the improvement in the quality and competence of extension
staff that contributed to motivating a large number of farmers to
participate in the project. Staff activities and training were highly
structured in a modified T&V approach; there was also a special extension
program for women. Farmers and women had shown remarkable keenness and
eagernc.s to participate in the project, yet, due to circumstances beyond
their control with respect to shortages of seed and fertilizer, and
difficulty in obtaining credit, their efforts did not entirely pay off.
Accounts were generally well kept and the statements of expenditure fully
documented. The project's initial efforts to integrate agricultural
services within the MANR as a first step towards reorganizing the
Ministry's structure and function, a difficult exercise that had not been
attempted by an IADP before, were encouraging; some staff were already
being absorbed into the civil service. FFC, whose credit recovery
performance had deteriorated drastically from 1977 onwards, had improved



11
significantly, although its overhead costs were still excessive and its
viability without government assistance remained in frequent question.
6.02      Shortfalls.  As regards physical targets, with the exception of
the new planting of cocoa, neither annual nor overall targets were met, in
spite of impressive efforts made by agricultural staff, particularly
extension staff. Crop production packages were found to be inadequate with
farmers showing reluctance to accept the recommended packages which they
perceived to be weak, or uropping them when problems of input supply and
credit became severs. Most controversial was the swamp rice package with
many farmers reverting to traditional systems. Actual achievements
compared to SAR targets were 60 percent for upland rice, 80 percent for the
developmentlrehabilitation of swamp rice, 75 percent for swamp rice
consolidation, 66 percent for rehabilitation of cocoa, and 32 percent and
38 percent, respectively, for coffee new planting and rehabilitation. 9/
6.03      The area achievements must be interpreted with caution since
these were based on the annual sales of inputs rather than the measurement
of actual area cultivated. No estimate on the number of farmers that
actually participated in the crop development program is available. A
major drawback to the project's performance was that it had received little
support from national agricultural research programs. This situation was
aggravated by the absence of rice seed, and the poor quality of coffee
seeds for which the germination rate was less than 50 percent, and was, in
some instances, estimated at only 20 percent. The village wells
construction program had to be scaled down because of a suggested new
design that was not only more costly, but one which was also at variance
with SAR specifications.
6.04      While there was no change of project objectives, implementation
was flexible and allowed for divergences from the SAR when considered
essential for meeting physical targets and ensuring smooth implementation.
Examples include expansion of the outgrower program for oil palm when the
available contiguous land was insufficient for estate expansion, reduced
mileage of new roads as a means to ensuring sufficient funds for the
maintenance of roads already completed, amendment of the Credit Agreement
for reailocation of funds away from buildings and toward the purchase and
replacement of a boiler for the DOPC mill, and placing the tree crop
component under the ASSP toward project completion.
6.05      Variances between planned and actual completion may be explained
by the project's acute financial predicament. As completion approached,
the project was unable to pay the regular wage bill and was forced to rely
on commercial bank overdrafts. The project closed more than two years ago,
and throughout the project implementation period, Sierra Leone faced a
critical economic and financial situation. Without conducting a rigorous
financial and economic analysis based on parameters valid at the time of
closing, and without being able to confirm these through mission findings,
it is difficult to estimate the completion economic rate of return.
Nevertheless, given the country's continued weak financial situation and
9/ According to one estimate at the time, all of Sierra Leone's coffee and
cocoa would require replanting over the next 15-20 years.



12
the reported marked deterioration of the IADPs, the SAR economic rate of
return of 34 percent estimated at appraisal is unlikely to be achieved. At
best, it is improbable that it would have exceeded ten percent.
6.06      Favorable impact.  While the farmers did not benefit from the
project by way of higher production and incomes to the extent anticipated,
due to the several constraints on credit and input availablity as already
mentioned, they were made aware of the existence of improved technical
packages. This points tc the project's success in terms of the progress
made in strengthening the quality of extension staff within the modified
T&V approach. These staff were also reported to be competent in that they
were able to convey extension messages to the farmers in a situation that
was otherwise dismal, and in spite of constraints on finance, mobility and
staffing. 10/ Field staff were in close contact with farmers and their
problems. It was estimated that about 16,000 farmers were provided
extension advice through this program, although there is no available
information as to the number of actual participants . 11/ Other areas of
favorable impact were: (a) institutional and human resource development,
even though only on a small scale; (b) an encouraging start toward
integrating EIADP staff into the MANR regional structure, as well as
strengthening the MANR whose weak implementation capacity had been a major
constraint to the sector's development; (c) the transfer of credit and
input supply responsibilities to the FFC which also became a licensed
buying agent for the purchase of coffee and cocoa; (d) substantial
improvement in FFC's loan recovery and financial control based on more
effective lending and accounting procedures reinforced by stringent
disciplinary action against defaulters; and (e) build up of capacity for
project monitoring and evaluation.
6.07      Project Impact.  The project had limited impact on sector growth
because of shortfalls in most physical targets. Part of the reason was the
problems associated with the supply of quality seedlings and other inputs,
the availability of credit, and poor infrastructure and mobility. Other
reasons pertained to the upland rice component which had also raised
problems in the earlier phase, inability to tackle problems posed by the
presence of iron toxicity in the soil and the lack of qualified lana
planning staff for the swamp rice component which also turned out to be the
10/ The T&V system was modified to make optimal use of the limited
available manpower and transport in a large project area. The rationale
was to concentrate extension staff at the village level. Activities and
farmer participation-were based on demonstration plots distributed
throughout the area in units called Model Production Program (MPP)
villages. These villages were able to reach central project areas as well
as surrounding satellite or contact villages.
11/ That the farmers did not adopt improved agricultural packages fully or
on a sustained basis was due to a host of factors stemming from the overall
poor financial situation of the country as well as project related factors.
Prominent among these were weak project finances, shortages of seedlings
and inputs and irregularity of their supply, etc. This does not detract
from the fact that farmers were better educated on improved practices due
to the efficiency and seriousness of the extension system and its staff.



13
most controversial with many farmers reverting to traditional methods, the
poor quality of coffee seedlings when available, inappropriate intensity of
selected technical packages that had failed to consider the extent of the
labor constraint, and insufficient testing of packages.
6.08      More positive aspects of project impact related to the less
distorted rate of interest for loans to farmers, more remunerative prices
to FFB and palm oil producers, and the Government's commitment to a phased
reduction of the subsidy on fertilizer. These were necessary steps towards
improving the incentive framework. While the overall technological
environment did not change very much during the project period, there were
generally favorable developments in the physical and social environment.
This is reflected in the progress of field activities where there was
greater awareness and increased exposure to technical packages and
demonstrations. Farmers were also said to have gained better access to
loans through the FFCs of which they were an integral part, and had become
increasingly familiar with the need for cost recovery and the concept of
monitoring of their farm activities. Off the field, projc t staff had
received training in extension, accounting, and other project related
services. These developments, complemented by more roads and village
wells, would inevitably have exerted some positive influence on the
inhabitants of the project area, through greater learning and earning
opportunities for farmers and their families.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01      Even in the absence of a project completion mission by the
Borrower, it is unlikely that the project can be sustained. This is based
on the fact of continued deterioration of the country's macro and sector
situation and reports by Bank staff that have recently visited project
areas in connection with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP). Staff report
that the entire IADP edifice including equipment has collapsed. Contact
with farmers in the project areas indicates that the impact of the Bank-
supported IADPs on agricultural production and incomes has been negligible.
Accordingly, the GOSL is of the view that the IADPs and the Bank's role
have been a failure. Five thousand acres of the DOPC estate, which had
been privatized, are said to have been abandoned by the new owners. The
planned integration of IADPs into the MANR regional structure, even though
agreed to in principle and carried out to some extent, is reported not to
have been effectively achieved. Technical and managerial staff of the
IADPs are said to have been 'rejected' by the MANR primarily cn account of
resentment at their having had received better remuneration, equipment and
training compared to MANR staff. The financial situation at MANR has
worsened to the point where it has become basically ineffective. AS much
as 99 percent of the MANR budget is presently believed to be spent on
financing salaries, in arrear since end 1989, of the large number of staff
estimated at 10,000.
7.02      To assess the depth and severity of damage to the project, it
would be necessary to evaluate: first, the extent of setback to project
activities as a result of the prolonged economic crisis and susPn'sin:n o'
disbursements; and second, the project's resiliency in being able Lo
recover from these setbacks and the requirements for doing so.  An ac.--Ate
assessment of the present situation and a comprehensive plan to put



14
production and service activities initiated by the project back on track
would be key factors for determining the scope, if any, for recovery of
project activities. Crucial risk factors would be the continuation of the
unsatisfactory macro situation and payments arrears, and delays in carrying
out necessary sector reforms. At the project level, risk factors could
best be addressed through regular and adequate government contributions to
the project, sufficient maintenance funds for feeder roads and chiefdom
tracks, the continued strengthening of the DOPC and the FFC, other
institutional development in the sector, and a renewed and long-term
commitment to agricultural research and training. At the sector level, an
agricultural policy and incentive framework conducive to economic
efficiency, complemented by stronger sector institutinns and rural
infrastructure, would be essential for sustained agricultural growth.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01      The EIADP III project benefitted from effective Bank supervision
and regular dialogue with the Government on project developments and
progress. Attempts at prompt resolution of problems in cooperation with
the Government of Sierra Leone were made and this strengthened the
supervision process. However, in the early stages of the project cycle,
the Bank could have devoted more time and effort to dealing with issues
that are generally proven potential drawbacks to IADPs. These have to do
with the creation of an environment for: (i) effective agricultural
research; (ii) greater dissemination of training at all levels; and (iii) a
good understanding of labor, land tenure and socio-economic issues in the
project area. Prior to effectiveness, the Bank could have paid closer
attention to proposing more effective solutions to speeding up nursery
development and ensuring the availability of credit and other essential
inputs at the time and in the quantities required. During appraisal, the
urgency of institutional strengthening was appropriately recognized, but
not that for economic and technological efficiency at the sector and
project levels. Had it been the case, it might have reduced the shortfalls
in physical targets. Supervision reports and follow-up correspondence
contained useful assessments of project execution, management, and
financial issues but barely any reporting on the progresi. in physical
targets. Had target monitoring received closer attention, a strong
assessmer.t of achievements at project closing would have been possible.
8.02      The above not withstanding, several lessons for other Bank
financed relevant projects, based on the experience of EIADP III, may be
suggested.  The mai:t lesson is that a project is unlikely to be F-iresuful
if the macro economic environment is severely flawed and the sector policy
and incentive framework distorted. There are several other lessons.
First, in countries where overall financial, institutional and decision-
making constraints are severe, project design should be relatively simple
and focussed, and physical targets realistic. Second, the project dosign
should be closely linked to sector reforms in the interest of efficiency of
resource use for the Borrower, for the Bank, and for project beneficiaries.
Third, in cases of uncertainty or insufficient knowledge on technical,
economic and social issues, the project design must exercise extra cauticn
and ensure that whatever design is ultimately selected is cost-effective
and capable of being implemented. Fourth, in a region dominated by poor
farmers, the project must offer them the choice of simple and cost-



15
effective technology offered at a reasonable price. Fifth, success of the
project should not be overly dependent on a handful of specialists
recruited under the project, who, when they leave, also leave a floundering
department, project and/or project staff. Sixth, innovative and well-
designed training programs capable of reaching a large number of project
staff are essential to project sustainability and institutional
`3velopment.  Seventh, regular supervision of the project in close
cooperation with the cofinanciers and all project entities must be of high
priority. Eighth, where project success hinges on the availability of
essential inputs, credit and other services, the project design must either
ensure their timely availability in the quantities required or have
contingency plans for their supply, otherwise the project proposal itself
is not very meaningful with credibility of the project initiative itself
open to question. The expected and vital impact of any proposed reforms,
especially those relating to producer prices, is lost, and the damage to
farmers' enthusiasm to adopt improved packages and practices difficult to
remedy in the short-term. Ninth, in projects that place as much stress on
the achievement of physical targets as on institutional development and
strengthening, the project must allow for either reduced scope and scale of
the project or a longer period of implementation. Tenth, in areas such as
procurement and cofinancing where the Bank has expertise and experience,
that is, where it has some control over the outcome, it must firmly pursue
necessary solutions together with its counterparts and cofinanciers to
prevent avoidable delays in project implementation and progress. Eleven,
project design must openly recognize the risk associated with the success
of an important component hinging on the success of another completely
separately funded project as was the case of the seed project financed by
donor technical aid.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01      The Borrower's inability to resolve the country's financial
crisis and improve economic and fiscal management had a negative bearing on
the project which failed to perform as well as it otherwise might have.
The Borrower's main strength was its willingness to openly discuss, enquire
and/or explain issues that came to the forefront. Its main weakness arose
largely from the overall financial constraint that permeated all sections
of the economy and from its inability to take important decisions promptly.
Generally though, during preparation and in phases prior to implementation,
the Borrower displayed considerable flexibility and cooperation with the
project preparation and appraisal teams. On the whole, the project was
well managed, although this had a lot to do with the individual appointed
as project manager. By project closing, the Borrower had met with some
initial success in the relatively efficient deployment of staff and
consultants. It had taken the difficult step of releasing relatively
redundant and unproductive staff, and, was, in the process, able to reduce
some degree of inherent inefficiency, and to gain greater control over its
wage bill.
9.02      The project has several lessons for the Borrower.  First, it is
important for the Borrower to assess, at an early stage in the project
cycle, its own financial, institutional and socio-economic capability to
successfully implement projects that have the potential of taxing its
implementation capacity. And, more so, in the case of projects that are



16
multipurpose, -he design complex, and the prospects of irregular and
insufficient funding high. Second, where the projects are externally
funded, the Borrower must ensure the inclusion of a strong training
component where a maximum number of staff would obtain specialized training
relevant to the project and sector, so that training after project closing
is of equal quality, and continues with the same momentum. Third, whether
or not the project is funded externally, it is essential for the Borrower
to establish a solid framework for project accounting, and monitoring and
evaluation, through well selected project teams rather than through the
temporary dependence on a few consultants. Fourth, it is in the Borrower's
interest to bring to the forefront at the preparation stage, or even
earlier, any sociai issues and constraints that would have the potential to
impede project progress and its ultimate success. It should also highlight
possible additional constraints that could arise at higher decision-making
levels and which might interfere with smooth project implementation.
Finally, the Borrower must ensure, based on more than one opinion, that the
recommended technical crop packages are sound and are, in fact, capable of
increasing yields and incomes in the given agronomic, policy, and socio-
economic environment.
10. Project Relationship
10.01     In terms of project impact, the Bank and GOSL had a fruitful
working relationship. Both were able to communicate openly, even on
sensitive issues, at the working and the decision-making levels. The Bank
relationship with the many project entities, too, was satisfactory.
However, in EIADP III, the relationship between BADEA and the Borrower was
strained on account of payments arrears and procurement difficulties.
BADEA had, on several occasions, been unable to join Bank supervision
missions and participate in the process of problem solving. For the
future, the importance of overall and effective communication on the
particular project, and, particularly, on the more complex project related
issues, is essential if the project is to succeed. The Borrower's
relationship with other relevant parties such as CARE and FFC was somewhat
mixed. The underlying cause was the Borrower's financial constraints.
Regarding CARE, in the initial stages, important design and organizational
issues had to be addressed, for example, grade specification of project
roads and the appropriate organization that would maintain them. There was
also the question of whether CARE would agree to undertake the construction
of chiefdom tracks, which in its view are not maintained after completion.
One area where inter-institutional problems strongly surfaced was in the
difficulty of reconciling data provided by different units. No attempt had
been made to jointly confirm or revise data and other information gat'lered
on project progress. In part this may be explained by the shortage of
vehicles which affected the mobility of M&E staff.
11. Consulting Services
11.01     The project benefitted from consultants.  The Senior Extension
Trainer did much to strengthen the extension system, in spite of
constraints on funding, staffing, and mobility. This was also true of the
Credit Specialist. FFC's financial viability at the start of the project
was extremely poor. However, with the introduction of new procedures and
some streamlining of financial operations reinforced by the possibility of



17
punitive measures should they be required, there was considerable
improvement in credit recovery. CAR: continued to construct good roads in
Sierra Leone as it had done in the past. Furthermore, it was forthright in
its view on the construction of chiefdom tracks and at the same time
flexible on the issue. It cooperated fully with the Bank on the decision
to scale down the program for construction of new roads so that investments
in roads previously made could be protected through adequate maintenance
and attention.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01     The legal agreement for the project was clearly spelled out and
appeared to lend itself to careful and close monitoring during supervision.
An added strength of the Development Credit Agreement was the built-in
flexibility that enabled the Bank and the Borrower to make amendments with
relative ease in circumstances that necessitated them.
12.02     During implementation, the SAR provided a useful framework for
both the Bank and Borrower in terms of explaining the institutional and
infrastructure constraints in the project area and the measures necessary
to strengthen these. The SAR was weak, however, in analyzing the policy
and incentive frameewrk in the agriculture sector, and in assessing the
economic implications and cost for the project were the prevailing policies
to remain intact. -zais was a shortcoming that weakened implementation of
the crop developmen: ,a.ogram, the achievement of physical targets, and the
technical and econoni-uc efficiency in the sector and project.  With relative
optimism that macro pr.blems would be solved in the short term, the SAR was
not able to alert dec.sion-makers, and those c) sely connected with the
project, on the riskt for the project due to deterioration on the macro
frort, and continuati..Ti of the distorted policy and incentive framework
within the agriculture sector.
12.03     Sierra Leone  z.cks a national agricultural data base.  Bank
supervision reports hat mdde some data comparisons on actual crop
production compared to SAR targets, but much of the data on other targets
and achievements was lacking. Even for crop production, area achievements
were measured by annual inputs supplied rather than actual area
measurement. The available data thus have to be interpreted with caution.
It would be useful for agricultural projects in future to ensure that the
Borrower prepare in consultation with the Bank a format for a project data
base prior to project effectiveness, preferably at appraisal. Regular
updatin.' of the data base and follow-up analysis could then provide a
useful source of prcject data for supervision, implementation, regular
evaluation, and special studies including a PCR.
12.04     Sectoral data and analysis were the responsibility of the Senior
Sector Planner, the Project Planner, and the Agrostatistician who were to
coordinate with the Ceatral Planning Unit in the Ministry of Development
and Economic Planning. Yet more than half way into the project, basic
yield data were believed to be irnsufficient and unreliable. The picture
looked bleak, even though the M&E units of PEMSU were fully staffed. In
fact, the data collected in the first two project years had been rendered
invalid. The main problem was unsutitably qualified staff with little



18
experience and individual units generally operating in isolation. There
also appeared to be no link with data requirements for project planning.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower was requested to provide a Review, but none was received).



19
No tll s1?CsTluCX IeG7tm
(ute   l    atet   AqvIelteurcl IewIemt t act ICnlot I1194-
t.5lt8  Oak .me joll   Credits
........ ...................
....... ... . ......... . _._ ...... . . .. . ....  _,,,,, .. ,,,,,,,,,,,,, _,_,, . .. .... . ... ....... ... ...         ...... ... . ..... ... ........... ..... ...... ....... ........ . ......_
low of
'0401C-wlt ':t!4                                      two" t                                wwye         Statut                                                     Clllta
........ ..................                                                                              .._. ...                                                   ........ ........ .......
:t0cratto AiviCtu'l                        10 toreacct cii to tollit        the t ,WICtc             011917l       '1orui as Of 0S1Ill74             'he VA eqowuic 'at  o4  tte    as 11 scveta"t.  'l 
ft"it 0wt  .vaoct  Crojit l2'-9            df 0 o'1 eSit  ntate ntaiciatf             is   Wv No@aact owUr tu   Welt licut ast too 'te o
OtAattry *4 iqartccJtert andi Otuat                                                                    'ttr" at ?1.3 aucct.  thi  we  aelcelatcd a  tao
eurcn  1VA     00,0  food IK"m_4t                                                                       VM    of tb  _9sIi   soto     "al et
*tteealha   all 0dc  hai itini to ta Osm  so the wilt Iot  1                                                                          w1 i        pW t r as a to f ta
atrremom itws.  It ma* lti    to   c.r es"                                                               lcfwoettml       too 1a97 VCC VW.
the tlailtatatitalu of Isaillaowr ate,lan
WrOW k4sicOlst rice. t(u as all fate
,'auctiUe. t' ^ rltvat4rl h elset
Gatbority tte to toe uccccs icItl _1i
to  A"  avrete te tet aII       iI cd t"Cie
astate.  A uiaoct el _aet "oIt to the
4 040 to te cetaltsmta. ca #vuan
Ittiaw  Cl tWtestiat d lacte cc   OeIttmt
of '0lnrit tWet ction tt ttt.
Sontt Witeltacfil 0'lKtt                   'he orjKt *tt o assit av ">clc           t                04291         Cleow   asf d 911                 Me W       tint,et    a  Ktotc rate of 'tove  Of 24
Crntt lb. 1*t                              aactl turai mruactam  of rwe taecc.                                                                       gercut.  The n4       t  ufuwelc  frdt euwt
Lao  lb. IS,-,                             m# to  mtale tsetruet #are sapert                                                                         eatints an  to  ttrcvt. thue owlc  slact ettvitatw
tvulon  that amid etne svrall                                                                             in the * rtavre ad Ltetan   hp q     inttb "wat
ttricnttbl ie      tlaeocot wat Cutriubtg te                                                             ntne of retes at   Yctul eo  t4 scwat as Sb
an awte i msiltv Ot   104 lfe       r rci wow.                                                           torctt rUeestitvo        nt  luttr  tciralt 't e 4 utim
en  a4 tlc@tuU  Of ubwtfcll  a cqtinic
ew4gro r       ig to e theod    f itrect befcu rce
atce n tortniarttt, Is  ts the Emstw*   utg..
owtibUe Irtat tre     @qCtcltal'e          Iv        l! te #VW ,c   Fluled. tbe weAct cil            04I9?ISI         IeNi a  d4 )II/               It tporaul the  ataestci  Kccasoc rttn 14 rtgre on
stolaeet P`O,t  C!cfut                     ta  ncreas"  *usi veotalm  VA   ct.t cancustw 21 wca"t  It  ae a.cc t  if acute fo4aag
tt3.ILa  Ia                               ib  .leois ab  tat.ce te 411  ucure t t                                                                    cuotreastt  fIced ki the cmtotry, of wam t, if
jaict  the *II r 0%&et  I wtiet in  It                                                                    Jiia  oepts bi  *e tod  n beaUse  d4 'u-oavat of
q.rttwo Drecsce. komtia         t of aeloi att                                                            drves 'eoItto1 sclrt t4'll  in the tfr. 'ta0m  rtt
Inaft  rice.   mieom"to  llt wise oe  to be                                                               viltl4e "ts1 tuqeta.
e,taoio  to  tecth fvtrut  cr   U   diattltle
area Of 1.3* b2 aioe. Calttatiam Of frelt
trar c     laC ttvttKb eIteuouet ow  to
ae" oe. * tret , ame tat ornsut an  to
have Nr'hiui atralttuat IRMO0. Crutlt.
istOliar  IMVic". NllWr '04.  ai95t
cell$ a"  tccimmict oistapet.
__ .. _.c. .c ....o .   _ _    . ......... .............t  .-- --                                                                                        --o.t..-.   .......... 
:/ SIICCent    ttte fitozr  latpergtt toicnt nal hiloopeabt lbrgl t Itl



20
2.  Project Timetable
Doat               Date                     Date
Item               Planned            Revised                  Actual
-  Identification                 1977           06/19/79                  12/79
(Executive Projoct
Summary)
- Preparation                     1978                                     1978
- Appraisal Mission           01/26/80                                     01/26/80
- Loan/Credit
Negotitations             10/09/80                                     10/09/80
- Board Approval              01/13/81                                     01/13/81
- Loan/Crodit
Signature                 02/13/81                                     02/13/81
- Loan/Credit
Effectiveness             09/16/81                                     09/16/81
- Loan/Credit Closing         09/30/88                                     09/30/87
- Loan/Credit Completion      03/31/86                                     06/88
3. Credit Disbursemnt
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US3 million)
FY61  FY82   FY83  FY84  FY86 FY86  FY87 a/FY88 FY89  FY90
Appraisal Estimate                  0.10  3.10  6.10  7.60  9.60  11.60 12.00  -         -     -
Actual                              0.0   1.36  4.86  6.27  7.81   8.84  9.01 9.03  9.03  9.03 b/
Actual as % of Estimate                    43.6  96.3  8386   82.2  76.9  76.1   -       -     -
Dato of Final Disbursement:          September 1989
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------
&/ As of the end of the first quarter of FY87.
b/ As of September 1989. Disbursements were allwowd beyond the closing date to finance expenses for consultants
and training.



21
4. Project Impl*mentation
-------------------------------------------------------__----------------
Appraisal          Actual
Indicators               Estimate           Estimate
Crop Development (ha):
Upland Rice                         10,000             3,626
Swamp Cultivation                    2,000             2,099 1/
Consolidation                     1,500               -
Development                         600             1,291
Cocoa New Plantings                    800               869
Cocoa Rehabilitation                 1,360               617
Coffee New Plantingi. 2/             2,000               632
Coffee Rehabilitation 2/               800               846
Village Welts (no.) 3/                  300               106 4/
Roads (km) S/
Class IV A                             176                67 6/
Chiefdom Tracks                         96                 -
Class IV A or chiefdom tracks          36
------------------------------------------------------------------------_
1/ Includes seasonal support for inputs.
2/ A discrepancy exists between page 41 of the SAR where the targets are 3,000 ha new planting and 2,000 ha
rehabilitation compared to page 14 where the target for new planting is 2,000 ha and for rehabilitation 800
ha.
3/ The target for village wells was revised downwards to 160 in 1983 of increased cost per unit of construction
and the low construction capacity in the project to carry out the target construction.
4/ Completed as of May 1986 with 3 in progress.
S/ In 1983, tho Credit Agreement was amended to include the maintenance of 400 km of roads that the Ministry of
Works had been unable to maintain.
6/ Completed by 1984/86.
Comments:
Achievement of the crop develo _ nt programme was hampered by, and in spite of subsequent
improvements in: (i) the availsbility of quality seed; (ii) transportation problems (due to procurement
irregularities and delays and inadequate communication with BADEA that was financing project vehicles) which
affected not only the procurement of inputs but also their distribution to farmers; (iii) forward planning which
was lacking and which especially affected the tree crops component where demand was high and seedlings were
either not mature enough or insufficient to cover the number of farmers registered; and (iv) excessive number of
unquslified extension staff who were ineffective in farmr registration which lagged, inadequate follow up in
the distribution of inputs, and poor advice to farmers.
With project progress, some of these constraints were gradually reduced. Unqualified staff,
especially extension staff, were laid off, provision for high quality coffee seed from the Ivory Coast was made
for periods beyond the current planting season, project nurseries were better organized and maintained, the
activities of FFC and extension staff were closely coordinated, orders were placed with the SMP for rice seed
(farmers too were contracted for this purpose), staff training was reshaped, the TlV system modified to suit
characteristics of the project area, and arrangements with BADEA made to sort out procurement problems for
vehicles. The consolidation/development of existing swamps was slowed by labor scarcity, shortage of staff in
the land planning unit, lack of qualified staff for land surveying, and delayed processing of loans by FFC. New
swamp development was constrained by weak technical aspects of water control structures. Cocoa and coffee both
responded positively to the 1984/86 producer price increases. Yet there were shortfalls in cocoa rehabilitation
and coffee new planting because of poor soils in the project area for cocoa, and low quality planting material
for coffee. Cocoa was also in great demand by farmers since it was used as a crop to 'engage land". Even when
neglected, it was able to provide farmers with additional cash.
It appears that the capacity for the construction of village wells had been overly optimistic in the
SAR. A more accurate assessment of actual construction capacity was about 26 wells per year rather than the SAR
target of 6o wells per year. While the SAR had estimated the cost per well at Le 2,000, the actual average cost
in late 1983 was Le 4,970, and taking into account the expected impact of the devaluation was estimated to be
higher still at Lo 5,900. On the roads target, according to a status report around mid 1986, less than 40
percent of the class IV A roads had been completed and only 0,44 miles of chiefdom tracks.



22
6. Project Costo and Financin2
A. Project Cost*
Appraisal Estimate                          Actual
Local     Foreign                     Local    Foreign
Item             Costs  Exc£han  Costs   Total          Costs  Exchane *Costs    Total                   (USS M)
Project
Management      0.8          0.9          1.7          no           no          na
Extension &
Training        1.6          1.3          2.8          no           no          no
Engineering
Services
Admn A Wkshop   0.8          1.0          1.8          no           na          no
Wells           0.3          0.2          0.6          no           na          na
Roads           0.8          2.6          3.3          no           no          no
Production
Inputs          0.9          1.6          2.6          no          no           no
Daru Oil Palm
Company         0.4          0.6          1.0          na           no          no
Farmers' Finance
company         0.3          1.2          1.6          no           na          na
PEMSU A Project
Coordinator     1.0          2.0          3.0          no           no          na
Monitoring &
Evaluation Cell 0.4          0.2          0.6          no           no          no
Consultancy
Services         -           0.3          0.3          na           na          no
Contingencies    2.0          4.0          6.0          no           no          no
-------------------------------------..--------------------------------__----__---------
TOTAL           9.2         16.8         26.0         no           no          no
B. Proj-ct Financing
Planned
Loan/Credit
Source                          A reement                  Final
'OS$ mn                  ( USl7mn)
IDA
Personnel                           0.6                      no
Vehicles A Equipment                -                        no
Buildings                           0.7                      no
Production Inputs                   2.2                      no
Co sultancy Services                0.3                      na
Road Construction                   3.3                      no
Operations I Maintenance 1/         1.9                      no
Unallocated                         3.0                      no
Sub-total               12.0                       no
Co-Financing
BADEA                               8.6                      no
Other External
Sources
UNDP                                1.9                      no
Domestic
GOSL                                2.6                      no
TOTAL                         26.0                       no
--/----uel--------------------o---ic------uppl-------------uil-----ng__--m---_n----n--n-----
I/ Fuels, sparer. office supplies, buildings maint nance-



23
8.   Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------_
Appraisal          Estimated at       Evtimated at
Indicators              Estimate            Closing Date 1/    Full Deveiopment
Area developed (he)      14,330             9,961                     no
Production (tons) 2/
upland rice             8,750            4,170                     na
swamp rice pckg I       2,446             1,933                     no
swamp rice pckg II      4,108             3,271                     no
cocoa rehabil             422               302                     na
cocoa planting              0                23                     no
coffee rehabil            286               117                     no
coffee planting             0                12                     no
Yields (tons)
upland rice 3/            1.0                                     1.0
swamp rice pckg 1 4/      3.6                                     3.5
swanp rice pckg 2 4/      2.6                                     2.6
cocoa rehabil            0.60                                     0.60
cocoa planting 5/        0.26                                     0.70
coffee rehabil           0.46                                     0.48
coffee planting 6/       0.06                                     0.75
Number
of direct
beneficiaries            12,680 7/         6,300 8/
Total number of
beneficiaries            66,000 9/        16,000 10/
Employment Creation 11/
(md '000)        4,462           1,615
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__---------------------------------
1/ No PCR mission took place. The figures refer to end March 1987, are based on annual sales of inputs
to farmers, and have been obtained from various supervision reports. Production figures assume that
projected yields were actually obtained.
2/ Incremental production at full development in years 9 through 12: 4,600 tons for upland rice, 760 tons each
for package 1 and 2 respectively of swamp rice, 400 tons for coffee rehabilitation, 2260 tons for coffee new
planting, 220 tons for cocoa rehabilitation, and 660 tons for cocoa new planting.
3/ Average yields of 1,690 kg/ha (LAC 23) obtained by project farmers in the Bong Project in Liberia.
4/  Trials in Sierra Leone under package 1 conditions gave main season crop yields of more than 4,000 kg/ha, and
under package 2 conditions up to 3,600 kg/ha (Rice Research Station, Rokupr).
S/ Indicated by experience from SPUUB.
6/ Njaia University trials gave average yields of over 2,000 kg/ha with 6 clones over a 6 year period.
7/ Number of farmers expected to receive extension advice and request credit.
8/ As of February 1986. The number of farmers reached includes the more than 3,000 reached during the 1984/85
season in terms of sanctioned and/or processed loans together with the numbers reached in previous years.
9/ Number of farmers expected to receive extension advice.
10/ Estimated number of farmers receiving TAY extension advice as of February 1986. However, the number of
farmers exposed to such advice through the modified ThV approach is much larger. For instance, in 1984, 50
field days drew about 100,000 farmers through the Model Production Programm.
11/ Based on the projected number of man days per hectare of family labor.
Note: (i) The difference betwven the packages for swamp rice was that package 1 would be encouraged in areas
with good *oils and good drainage and irrigation potential. Agronomic pract!._es would include the us- of better
varieties, proper nurseries, appropriste fertilizer application (NPK 15:16:16 and Urea), spaced transplanted
seedlings, weeding, and water control. Ten percent of the area under the package was to be double-cropped
within the first three years and was expected to increase to 16 percent. Production at project closing assumed
that respective yields as forested in the SAR would be attained.
Comments:   In the absence of a PCR misvion, it is difficult to assess the projeet's direct benefits at full
dev-lopment. According to supervision reports, EIADP III had the potential of becoming an effective rural
development project. This potential was, however, thwarted by several constraints on funding, staffing and
mobility. In the case of food crops, packages were perceived by farmers to be poor in terms of yields on the
investment of both labor and funds. In the case of upland rice, there wao little difference in the yields
obtained by project and non-project farmers. Technical flaws led to shortfalls in swamp rice production. Tree
crops was one area where formers recognized the economic benefit of planting trees. This was significant since
the area was not one where tree crop cultivation was common. Scarcity of funds, high overhead .costs, and slow
crop development aggravated FFC's already poor finances and loan recoveries. As a result fewer farmers could
benefit directly from credit. While the modified ThV approach enabled a relatively large number of farmers to
be recched, the number of farmers that adopted complete packages on a sustainad basis was for fewer.



24
S. Economic Impact
Appraisal                Actual
Estimato           (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return                               34X                     na
Underlying
Assumptions
Project life I/                             26 years               na
Full development                            1990-2003              no
Shadow oxchangs rate (USS 1)                La 1.20                no
Average market wage (per md)                Lo 1.60                no
---------------------------------------------------------------------__--
1/ Includes 6 years grace.
Comments: It is likely that the rate of return at full dev,wopment was lower than that estimated at appraisal
since there woer large shortfalls in most of the physical targets in the crop production programme, civil works,
roads, and village wells.



25
C. Financial Impact 1/
Without             Futuro with
Project             Proiect             Actual
Not Return per he
swamp riceg                    8 66.3               1171.8                no
swamp rice pckg II             663.3                 860.4                ns
upland rice/cassava            300.7                 463.6                na
cocoa rehabilitation           287.6                 372.8                na
cocoa now planting 2/             -                  479.9                no
coffee rohabilitation          477.0                 737,4                no
coffee new planting                     -           1255.7                na
Net Return por manday (Le)
swamp rie  pckg I                 .6                  7.1                 no
swamp rice pckg II              6.6                   7.4                 no
upland rice/cassava              1.2                  1.7                 no
cocoa rehabilitation           12.0                   8.6                 na
cocoa now planting 2/             -                   6.6                 no
coffee rehabilitation          13.6                  17.6                 no
coffee now planting              -                   18.7                 no
Increase in Averasg Returns
(per hs)
swamp rice pckg I                                  60656                  na
swamp rice pckg II                                  187.1                 no
upland rice/cassava                                 162.9                 no
cocoa rohabilitation                                 86.3                 na
cocoa new planting 2/                              479.9                  na
coffee rehabilitation                               260.4                 no
coffee now planting                               1266.7                  na
Increase in Averace Returns
(per md)
swamp rice pckg I                                     1.6                 no
swamp rice pckg II                                   0.9                  na
upland rice/cassava                                   0.6                 no
cocoa rehabilitation                                 -3.5                 no
cocoa now planting 2/                                 6.6                 na
coffee rehabilitation                                 4.0                 na
coffee now planting                                  18.7                 no
Increase in Net Profit
swamp rice pckg I                                  439.6                  no
swamp rice pckg II                                  167.6                na
upland rice/cassava                                 106.4                 na
cocoa rehabilitation                                 66.3                 "a
cocoa now planting 2/                              370.4                 na
coffoo rehabilitation                              249.9                 no
coffoe  now planting                              1166.2                 na
1/ In constant 1960 Leoneo.
2/ Values for 1991 (after 6 year loan repayment period).
Comments: All financial roturns, by and large, are expected to have boen adversely affected by constraints
impcxbd by a shortage of vohicles and insufficient woll-trained extenaion staff.  In tree crops, while the
economic benefits of planting wero recognized, extension staff were not trained in troe crop extension. Good
field practices and husbandry ar- important elements in tree crop farming and subsequent yields. Thus with the
lack of appropriate quality advice the actual yields and roturns from these crops would accordingly havo been
reduced.  Coffee yields would also have been adversoly affected by tho poor quality of seedlings reported to
have had low germination. The actual outcom is expected to have been lose favourable for swamp and upland rice
as well since technical packageo w*ro perceived by farmrs to have been woek and wore either not adopted,
partially adopted, or adopted for only a briof period.



26
D. Studies
Purpose as
defined at                                          Impact of
Studies                 Appraisal                        Status              Study
Baseline socio-         To facilitate tho                Complete            no
economic survey         implementation of an
appropriate monitoring
and evaluation system
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant          Subject                                Complianceo                Status
Section 4.06    The Borrower *hall take or cause         January 1, 1985            In progress. Govornment
to be takon all action necessary                                    had announced reduction
to terminate by January 1, 1986,                                    in subsidy.
the existing Borrower's subsidies
on the salo of fertilizers, such
action to include tho reduction by
January Ist of each year, starting
January 1, 1982, or 256 of the
subsidies in effect on the date of
this agreemnt.
Section 4.08    The Borrower *hall, by July 1, 1981,   July 1, 1981                 Action started. Project
take all action necessary to integrate                              managent laid off a
into MAF the organizational units                                   large number of staff,
established by the Borrower in its                                  being roplaced by MAF
Eastern Province for purposes of                                    staff on secondment.
carrying out the projects referred to                               Other measures on part of
First and Second Agricultural Credit                                the Ministry are on-going.
Agreemnts, such integration to
be carried out by the Borrower in
accordance with appropriate admini-
strative, personnel and managerial
practices.
Section        The Borrower shall appropriate and        Partially fulfilled.
3.04 (a)        release on a quarterly basis,            Release of funds
the funds (other than tho procoeds of   *r- irregular because
the Credit) necessary for MAF, FFC       of Governmnt'.
and DOPC to carry out the Project and   financial difficulties.
to maintain the existing levels of
agricultural production in the
Borrower's Eastern Province in tho
imdiately following quarter of
such funds to be determined in
accordance with quarterly budgets
submitted by MAF, FFC and DOPC.
Section        The Borrower shall provide in a timely  Not met
3.04 (b)       manner the foreign exchange necessary
to acquire promptly as needed, the
goods necessary to carry out the
project.



27
8. Uso of Bank Resources
A. Stff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Stago of Project Cycle                                  Actual
Through Appraisal                                        24.0
Appraisal through Board Approval                       104.1
Board Approal through Effectiveness                       8.1
Supervision                                            102.1
-----------------------------------------------------------__---
Total                                                  238.3
8. UISSIONS
Stage of          Uonth/  Numbor of   Days in   Specializations    Performance Rating   Types of
Project Cyclo    Year    Porsons       Field       Reprosontod !/      Status b/           Problems c/
Tihn r oug, hn    10/77        2           12    a
xppr isal         07/78        1            4     b
11/78       2            7      c,d
03/79        1            3     d
10/79       2            28    a,b
02/80        9          133    d,e,a,f,g,
(+4 consultants)
Board Approval
05/80        1            7     g
10/80       3            28    h,g,i
01/81        1            7     h
B0ord Ap roval to
Effctiveness
03/81        2           1S    j,g                        2                   F,M
06/81        2           14    consultant, j
Supervision
10/81        1           2      9
12/81        7          115    j,k.l,h,g,n                2                   F
04/82       3            16    g (2 consultants)          2                  F
08/82        4           21    g,a,b
11/82        1           2      a                         3                   F
01/83        1            7     j
04/83        2            9     b,a                       3                   F
10/83        2           10    a,b                        3                   O,F
01/84        1           15    j
04/84        1           23    9
06/84        3           17    b,s,j                      3                   F,O
10/84        1           6      i                         2
02/86        3           14    b,s,j,m                                        F
06/86        6          117    b,g,n,i                    4
09/86        1            6     b
12/86       2            40    b,o                        3
02/86        1            3     o
07/86        3           6s    b                          3
03/87        2           42    a,b                        3
---------------------------------------------------------------_-_-----__----__---------------------------_
a/  a = agriculturist; b = financial analyst; c = highway economist; d = engineer; * = loan officer;
f = agronomist; g = economiot; h * credit specialist; i = division chief; j = roads engineer; k = operations
assistant; I a mAo specialist; m = irrigation ongineer; n = forestry specialist; o = tree crops specialist.
b/ 1=problem free or minor problem; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems.
c/  F=Financial; MUalnagement; O=Other.



IBRD 14872R
SIERRA LEONE
EASTERN INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - m
M,OMETIERS 0   10  20  ~     00(EIADP   -  M)                                                                                        A    Nucleus esloles
KIIOMETE5 C   10   2   30  *0  50  60  70  80
MIIES O              *O 20   30      40     SO                                                                                       E..st.ng roads
M   l       20      b                                                                                                   -      Pooed  WPrmIvY Ono SeI0,
'*                 ~    ~     ~    ~         ~ ~ ''-'~~~~~''^~~~e_,,,~~r                                     Unpoveco)                   *
- - - . - - -Feeder roodI
. '                               \                        n                    l*ter,Ia.of1Ol o,rpo,t
G    U    I  N    E   A                                                                                                           A '.ernOonor to..dorrCt
,orince bouwdo.es
h / j \' '-,, ,K*iaiS S,'v'' /8 .' ' ~~~. ' ." .......... .. ..
1>6n,4                                                                                                                                 :|\     ..' '...... G U  IN EA
..........1.                               .                                                                 "T
........e ..'.                                                   I l      #        \      /-
It.                                           I/'
M-ord IZ7A
/  ,            >~~~~~ FACte.                     n   -D   m
LUNGI                                            1' h                                                                               o.m F° b  r
P o R, 0                                            -f  N  C E
WESTERN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ESTENTy'o,
md;sh;#rrvdein~~~~~ol orbo                                                RUBR          /                               LIBEyrnoIAD
thdnominolbnsd~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       arh  s>< thern IADP fl
A RE   ,          .o.... . o l     rhAd.,.
o,erd    ,sr\1|(;r     I, .oSor. .o II. oM.oo                                                                           EZ    Moyanr  IADP  leso
- old.. World lool .u. oo                                                                                                ;/o.
v   o(.oSooodor vCo                                                                                                      : : orarindu  IAD
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[llff Mobs Ar                                                          l
oIoooSh..porlk
_ oropiooe. doorS lrooodorio                                                                                             :i9.~: KornoduM.r  I BE
M^AY 1990



